# Site: https://www.cardiffmet.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk:
Come and join us this September.
Discover our wide range of undergraduate, postgraduate, and research courses.
Whether you’re starting your journey, advancing your career, or exploring new opportunities.
Joining us this September?
We can't wait to meet you.
Visit our pages for new students for everything you need to know to get started.
Everything you need to know from accommodation to careers and opportunities to study abroad.
Plus hear from real students in our podcast ‘Help!
I’m going to uni’.
You’ll find excellent facilities, expert coaching and a passionate sporting community.
From recreational sport and fitness to BUCS teams and performance programmes.
Our research is making a positive impact on the world around us.
Explore multidisciplinary projects tackling real-world challenges for a better future.
This is the place of new chapters, discovery and big ideas; of new faces waiting to become old friends; a place of grand ambitions, learning curves and thinking big.
This is the Capital of you.
Cardiff Metropolitan University, Llandaff Campus, Western Avenue, Cardiff, CF5 2YB

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study:
Discover our wide range of undergraduate courses with real-world experience and impressive facilities.
If you’re ready for your next step, we offer postgraduate master’s as well as Doctorates, MRes, MPhil and PhD opportunities.
Discover our wide range of undergraduate career focused degree courses.
Search our postgraduate taught master’s degrees.
Explore our range of research degrees, including PhD, MPhil and Doctorates.
Want to find out more about studying with us?
From undergraduate Open Days and Applicant Days, to postgraduate study webinars and online sessions, attending one of our events can give you a taste of what it’s like to study at Cardiff Met.
We look forward to welcoming you.
Explore our range of BA & PGCE Primary and PGCE Secondary programmes.
Everything you need to know about application processes and admissions policies.
Find out more about studying with us as an international student.
Come and see us at one of our Open Days.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses:
Showing 1 - 10                    of 224 results
Course Name
Level
Location
Undergraduate
Llandaff Campus
Postgraduate
Llandaff Campus, Online

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/how-to-apply:
There are a number of different application procedures for the different types of courses available at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
It is important that you use the correct procedure to make sure that your application reaches us.​
The information and application processes below apply only for Home/UK applicants.
For information on how to apply as an International/EU applicant, please click here.
Our full-time undergraduate HND/Degree courses based at Llandaff or Cyncoed Campus all begin in September of each year.
If you wish to apply for one of these courses, you will need to make an application through UCAS .
You can apply through the normal application process via UCAS up until the end of June, and through Clearing via UCAS after June.
Most of our courses accept applications through the year but please contact Admissions to confirm if there is a specific closing date for your chosen course.
If you apply elsewhere and then change your mind, Cardiff Met also accepts applications via UCAS Extra .
UCAS Extra gives you a 6th choice in case you change your mind or don't receive the offers you wanted from your original choices.
We also have a number of HND and Foundation Degree programmes run in partnership with local colleges - Cardiff and Vale College, Bridgend College, Coleg Gwent and Black Mountains College.
If you would like to apply for one of these courses you are able to apply direct to the college or via UCAS.
Details of the courses and how to apply can be found under our Undergraduate Course A-Z .
Also, make sure you read the information on our Before you Apply pages for some tips.
Our PGCE courses are postgraduate courses for applicants that have already completed a degree and wish to become qualified teachers.
The courses are all one year full-time beginning in September.
If you wish to apply for a PGCE teacher training course , please make an application via UCAS Undergraduate.
Postgraduate (excluding PGCE Primary & Secondary), Professional and Part-time applications should be made directly to Admissions through the Cardiff Met Self Service .
Please click here for further information.
International students interested in applying and understanding visa requirements can find more information by clicking here .
Research applications should be made directly to Admissions.
If you are a current Cardiff Met student (studying on a Foundation Year or HNC/D) and wish to top-up or progess to an undergraduate programme, you will need to contact your Programme Director in the first instance and declare which degree you want to progress to.
More information can be found here .
The Programme Director will then need to inform Academic Registry if your are permitted to progress.
This process excludes those applying for BSc Dental Technology, BSc Healthcare Sciences, BSc Human Nutrition & Dietetics, BSc Podiatry, BSc Social Work and BSc Speech & Language Therapy where applications must be made through UCAS as these programmes have either limited places or are funded by NHS or NLIAH.
If you have not expressed an interest to progress and have been exited with an award, you will need to reapply through UCAS .
If you are a student studying at one of our franchise partnership colleges on an undergraduate full time programme, and wish to top-up, or use what you have achieved to enter into a different level at Cardiff Met, you will be able to do this as an internal transfer.
You will be asked if you want to top-up when you are nearing the end of your FdN Degree/HNC/HND course, and if you want to, then you will need to complete the Declaration of Intent to Progress.
This will allow our Enrolment Team to update your enrolment record onto the new course, once your award has been confirmed in the exam boards.
If you are a student studying at one of our overseas partnership institutions, and wish to top-up or use credit transfer to study the remainder of your time at Cardiff Met, you will need to apply through UCAS .
Depending on your qualifications, you will receive an offer and information concerning starting at Cardiff Met.
We will consider your application to transfer from another University if you meet our transfer requirements.
You must make your transfer application through UCAS (Undergraduate), or through our Self Service application system (for postgraduate & professional courses).
The normal deadlines apply.
In the first instance, you are welcome to send us proof of your current studies, so we can assess whether or not we are able to offer you a place and what year you will be able to enter onto.
This will depend on whether your current studies match the content of our course to allow us to grant you Recognised Prior Learning (RPL).
If you are current Cardiff Met student and you want to transfer onto another course within Cardiff Met, you will need to contact the Programme Director of the new course to assess your suitability.
You do not need to come back through the Admissions process.
If the transfer is agreed, you will then need to ask your current course tutor to complete an internal transfer form, which will notify Academic Registry to amend your programme details within the student system.
If you are thinking of leaving Cardiff Met to continue your studies elsewhere, please contact your personal tutor in the first instance to discuss your options.
If you then decide to leave, your course tutor will need to complete a Withdrawal Form for our Academic Registry department to formally withdraw you from your course.
Cardiff Metropolitan University accepts deferred applications for the majority of its undergraduate courses.
You will need to indicate your relevant year of entry when making your application through UCAS and meet all of your offer conditions in the year you are applying.
Please note that, due to restricted target numbers and placements available, we cannot accept deferred applications for the following courses - BSc Speech & Language Therapy / BSc Human Nutrition & Dietetics / BSc Healthcare Science / BSc Podiatry / BA Primary Education with QTS, PGCE Primary and PGCE Secondary programmes.
Circumstances for deferral request are however considered so if you have any queries concerning deferral, please contact Admissions at AskAdmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Cardiff Metropolitan University is a registered learning provider with the Ministry of Defence's ELCAS scheme for armed forces personnel wishing to study a university course.
A mature student is an undergraduate student over the age of 21 who didn't go to university after school or college.
At Cardiff Met, we welcome people of all ages to our undergraduate courses.
Mature applicants decide to embark on higher education for a number of reasons - to maybe change direction or progress their career.
UCAS has produced some useful information for applicants over the age of 21 which may help you with the application process.
Further information can be found here .
Our mature applicants apply for a whole variety of courses, and can bring skills and attributes from other like experiences.
Our student blogs show you how some of our mature students have immersed themselves into student life at Cardiff Met.
If you are seeking asylum, or have been granted refugee status in the UK, we welcome an application from you.
You may have previous qualifications from your home country, or you may want to explore the options available through our Widening Access team as a stepping stone into Cardiff Met.
If there is any query over your fee status, depending on your current residency in the UK, we will request for you complete our fee status assessment form for more details, when we receive your application.
We also offer a Sanctuary Award which is a package including a full fee waiver.
You can find details of this award on our Bursary and Scholarship pages.
For additional advice and guidance, please refer to the following sites:
If you have any further queries before or during your application process, please contact Admissions at askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
​Cardiff Metropolitan University has a legal obligation to comply with sanctions enforced by the UK government, UK sanctions regimes - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) .
As such, we are not able to receive money for tuition fees and payments for accommodation and other campus services where that money originated from a country mentioned in the UK sanctions regime.
We are also required to be wary of transferring restricted technology by teaching or participating in research collaborations.
This means that any applicant applying from a sanctioned country at postgraduate level or above, for an applied STEM subject course which may lead to exporting sensitive software or technology, which could be used for military potential (including the building of weapons of Mass Destruction), may not be able to be offered a place.
Courses that this affects include all programmes within our School of Technology and Product Design courses within the school of Art and Design.
International applicants subject to UK immigration control, who are intending to study at postgraduate level in certain sensitive subjects, knowledge of which could be used in programmes to develop weapons of mass destruction or their means of delivery need to apply to the Academic Technology Approval Scheme for an ATAS certificate before they can study in the UK.
Any concerns over students who are working with sensitive technology are referred to the UK government’s Academic Technology Approval Scheme.​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-degrees:
With a thriving postgraduate research community studying across a wide variety of subjects, Cardiff Met has a strong commitment to undertaking and supporting research at the cutting edge of knowledge exploration.
We offer various routes for postgraduate research study with both full-time and part-time study options available.
You could opt for a taught research programme which includes MRes (Master of Research) and Taught Doctorate opportunities.
Alternatively, you may decide to undertake a Professional Doctorate (part-time only) which combines a taught component with the production of a final project focused on the enhancement of practice.
Cardiff Met offers a wide-ranging suite of Professional Doctorates encompassing research interests from across the University.
We also offer options to study for the award of either an MPhil (Master of Philosophy) or PhD (Doctor of Philosophy) .
For those with existing connections to Cardiff Met, and who have amassed a significant research portfolio, then a PhD by Published Works may be a more suitable route.
For more information, and to find out if we have the expertise available to support your intended area of research, please complete this form: Postgraduate Study - register your interest .
Research
Llandaff Campus, Cyncoed Campus
Cyncoed Campus
These research qualifications are focused on independent study and candidates work with their supervisors to identify the most suitable programme of study.
The PhD offers you the chance to undertake a systematic programme of work towards the development of new knowledge, and the synthesis of this knowledge within the existing literature base.
This Level 8 award is suited to graduates wishing to continue studying in a particular area.
It can be an effective route to propose or implement a positive impact on society, culture, the economy, the environment, health and wellbeing, behaviour, policy and/or technology .
As a PhD researcher, you’ll conduct an original research project supported by a supervisory team.
It culminates with a Viva Voce examination of a submitted thesis and the candidate.
PhD candidates at Cardiff Met have focused on a wide range of topics including occupational stress, user-centred design, creative writing, athletic performance and data privacy.
Duration and mode: full-time 3-4 years, part-time 6-8 years
For more information, and to find out if we have the expertise available to support your intended area of research, please complete this form .
This is a Level 8 award for researchers who have already built up a considerable research profile at Cardiff Met, or in collaboration with staff at Cardiff Met.
It involves collating the profile and top/tailing with a critical narrative that introduces and discusses the contribution to knowledge and/or practice.
You will be supported by a suitable supervisor.
The PhD by Published Works culminates with a Viva Voce examination of a submitted thesis and the candidate.
This route is best suited to academics who has undertaken research while working at Cardiff Met or at a partner Higher Education Institution.
Duration and mode: part-time 1 year
The MPhil is a master’s level research qualification providing advanced research skills and knowledge.
It can be part of a PhD or you can study for a standalone qualification.
Like a PhD, you’ll conduct extensive research in your chosen field which might include critically evaluating a body of knowledge.
It is however completed over a shorter period than a PhD and doesn’t require the same level of original contribution.
The emphasis is on independent research resulting in a thesis and you’ll undertake an oral examination (Viva Voce).
Following completion you'll be in a great position to move onto further research or you could progress your career with your new found knowledge and skills.
Duration and mode: full-time 1-2 years, part-time 3-4 years

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/widening-access:
Cardiff Metropolitan University's Widening Access team aims to ensure that people of any background or ethnic group over the age of 18 are given a fair and equal opportunity to study here in a supported manner.
We are committed to ensuring that everyone who has the determination, skills and desire to access Higher Education should be able to do so.
If you are a mature student, adult learner or interested in learning in your community and want to try a short course for progression into the university, then we can help.
We work with communities offering opportunities to non-traditional learners which are accessible​ and flexible.
The courses on offer are part-time, bite sized learning programmes designed to widen participation to higher education.
Click here to see our Widening Access Courses Brochure which contains information on all of our courses and the progression opportunities available.
Our short courses are open to all adults over 18 years old.
However, priority is given to learners who:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/widening-access/summer-school:
Thank you to all the learners who attended our Summer School which took place 16th-27th June 2025.
We had a great time welcoming you all.
For more information about future courses and Summer School, please sign up for our newsletter below:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-art-and-design/cardiff-open-art-school:
Hello and Welcome to Cardiff Open Art School.
COAS has an enviable reputation for its high quality Art & Design short courses.
Your passion, ideas and skills will be honed and enhanced as you learn new techniques, skills and creative processes with new friends.
These classes may be the start of a new career direction for some, or may simply be a hobby or pastime that you've wanted to develop and learn more about, what ever your reason for applying to COAS, you won't be disappointed, but will be excited by the range of work you make during your course.
It doesn't matter if you're an experienced artist or designer, are preparing a portfolio to apply for a degree or Foundation programme or if you've never picked up a pencil before, we've got something to offer you so the courses and workshops are a great way of trying out new skills or for further developing your practice.
COAS sits in the heart of the Cardiff School of Art & Design, an Art School with a 150 year history based firmly on the principle of creative experimentation and practice.
Our studios and workshops are professionally equipped and accessible for our students to use under the expert supervision of a dynamic team of tutors, all of whom are practitioners with impressive reputations in their specialist areas of study.
Courses run throughout the year at our Llandaff campus, typically starting each Autumn, Spring and Summer Term.
The most up to date information about what we are running and when will always be found on the courses section of the COAS website.
To sign up for our mailing list and receive updates on our programme of courses, email your contact details to coas@cardiffmet.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships:
Cardiff Metropolitan University currently offers a range of degree apprenticeships.
The programmes are fully funded by the Welsh Government and employees can gain a degree in their selected discipline over a 3-year period.
Currently the University offers degree apprenticeship opportunities in a number of digital disciplines, but is looking to expand this offering in the near future in line with developments from the Welsh Government.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses:
We offer a number of short courses across the University in various subjects.
You could join the Cardiff Open Art School to hone your artistic talents, or we offer a range of professional development and leadership courses in business, marketing, education and social work.
Cardiff Met also runs community courses plus a summer school offering accessible opportunities for adult learners.
Find out more on our Widening Access pages.
Short courses regularly change so please check back here to see what is available.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/study-in-welsh:
Cardiff Met offers great opportunities for students who wish to study through the medium of Welsh.
You can study a significant part of your degree through the medium of Welsh on a huge range of our programs.
Find out more about the benefits of studying your course through the medium of Welsh at Cardiff Met.
Cardiff Met offers scholarships to students who choose to study through the medium of Welsh.
If you study at Cardiff Met, you'll become part of our close-knit community with plenty of opportunities to explore and develop your Welsh identity.
You can speak to course tutors and students; tour our facilities, accommodation and campuses; find out more about Cardiff Met Sport plus more.
It also gives you the opportunity to visit Cardiff and explore our fantastic city.
Our student blogs offer an in-depth, authentic look at life at Cardiff Met from the perspective of our Welsh students.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-art-and-design:
We offer a range of undergraduate, postgraduate, and research degrees, designed to equip you with the tools to make meaningful change in a broad range of careers.
You’ll become a multi-faceted and highly skilled professional, ready to join the leaders, thinkers, and entrepreneurs of the future.
By working with other artists, designers and makers, you’ll expand your skills, ideas and experiences.
We encourage your development within a context of social responsibility, as you play your part in the creation of a sustainable future.
View our facilities
Cardiff School of Art & Design offers an extensive range of facilities to help you realise your creativity, no matter what form it takes.
Our annual degree shows celebrate the creativity and innovation of our students, featuring outstanding work from both undergraduate and postgraduate programs.
These showcases provide a platform for emerging talent, offering a glimpse into the future of art, design, and research.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-education-and-social-policy:
Based across both the Cyncoed and Llandaff campuses, the School offers employability-focused degrees in the subject areas of Education , English , Creative Writing and Media , Criminology and Policing , Social Policy and Initial Teacher Education , and home to the Cardiff Partnership for Initial Teacher Education , one of the largest centres of teacher education and training in the UK.
Our graduates are highly skilled and fully prepared for the world of work, benefitting from our excellent links with industry partners, schools, professional bodies and the community.
The Cardiff School of Education & Social Policy at Cardiff Metropolitan University offers state-of-the-art facilities to enhance practice-based learning.
These include an Outdoor Learning Centre with a forest school, science and psychology labs, art and design workshops, media and IT suites, a music studio, and a dedicated education library.
Specialized spaces like Froebel House, the Education Experience Room, and a Crime House with simulation areas further enrich the hands-on educational experience.
Find out more
The Cardiff Partnership for Initial Teacher Education (ITE) – Working together with teachers, for teachers, as teachers, to inspire the future minds of Wales.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-management:
Become a business leader of the future at Cardiff School of Management.
We’re an accredited business and management school with purpose-built facilities on Llandaff Campus.
Our inspiring learning environment is designed to help you reach your full potential.
We specialise in Accounting, Economics and Finance; Business, Management and Law; Marketing and Strategy; as well as Tourism, Hospitality and Events Management.
Rooted in research, we drive regional, national and global economic growth through teaching, enterprise and applied research.
Our modern Cardiff School of Management building on Llandaff campus is designed to inspire future industry leaders while providing you with exceptional support.
Facilities include our purpose-built Moot Courtroom, Hospitality Suite with adjoining kitchens and dedicated IT centres with access to specialist, professional software, enabling you to develop your skills and gain practical experience as part of your studies.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-sport-and-health-sciences:
The Cardiff School of Sport and Health Sciences is a recognised centre of excellence in the UK, with an international reputation for the quality of its research and academic work across sport and health sciences.
Based across both the Cyncoed and Llandaff campuses, we work in collaboration with our students and industry partners, health boards, sport national governing bodies and many others to deliver employability-focused education and impactful research.
Our specialist Health Sciences facilities are designed with your future career in mind, enabling you to gain practical experiences as part of your degree.
Discover more including virtual tours.
Our specialist sport and academic facilities enable you to gain practical experiences to prepare you for your future career.
View our Performance programmes
Cardiff Met provides and manages a TASS accredited Dual Career Scheme environment that allows students to achieve their academic potential alongside training, playing, and performing in their chosen sport.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-technologies:
Cardiff School of Technologies offers accredited, practically led degrees in Engineering, Computer Science, and Creative Technologies.
We work closely with employers across the tech industry to carefully design courses that are industry-relevant, and career focused, offering you opportunities to gain work experience, continue your research, or study with our international partners.
Access industry-standard equipment and labs, exclusive student spaces, VR booths, gaming consoles, and more.
With dedicated student coach mentors, the school fosters a supportive, close-knit community.
At Cardiff School of Technologies, we know you by name, and when you study with us, you become part of our community.
The School of Technologies features a suite of dedicated high-tech labs and teaching spaces, open learning areas for collaborative working, a research hub for PhD students, and exclusive social areas.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/open-days-and-events:
Our undergraduate Open Days are the perfect chance for you to find out more about the courses you're interested in.
Registration is now open for the following Open Day dates:
Saturday 11 October 2025 Saturday 8 November 2025
Join one of our student ambassador-led campus tours.
Please register through the link below to secure your spot and explore our facilities.
Applied to an undergraduate course at Cardiff Met?
Attending an Applicant Day is a great opportunity to get a practical taste of the course you’ve applied for.
From online webinars covering the benefits of postgraduate study and funding opportunities, to subjects subject specific webinars and on-campus events.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/open-days-and-events/campus-tours:
Register for a Campus Tour to explore our facilities and see what Cardiff Met has to offer.
Campus Tours are led by our friendly Student Ambassadors and are also a chance for you to ask any questions you might have about student life and studying at Cardiff Met.
To view upcoming campus tour dates, please view the form below.
Please note, our Clearing Campus Tours will take place on the following dates on a drop-in basis between 10am and 2pm:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/open-days-and-events/applicant-days:
Our Applicant Days are the perfect chance for you to get immersed into life at Cardiff Met.
You will get a taster of the course you’ve applied for, experience our high quality teaching and facilities, as well as meet staff and students to chat all things Cardiff Met.​
A range of support services from across the University will also be on hand to chat to, including accommodation, performance sport, Welsh language study, and more.
As dates are confirmed, our Admissions Team will be in touch with all the details you need to register your place.
Please note: some applicant days may differ depending on the course applied for.
All invitations will outline the specific programme you can expect on the day.
If you've already attended a Cardiff Met open day, here's a list of added extras you get to experience by attending your Cardiff Met applicant day:
Open Day
Applicant Day
Campus Tour
✔
Course Talk
Accommodation Tour
Student Finance Information
Support Services Information
Course Experience Session
Experience your course content with a taster session from your teaching teams.
You will have the opportunity to learn first-hand what it would be like to study your chosen course, experiencing the teaching and facilities.
✗
Student Panel Q&A
Ask your questions to our current students, whether that is questions on student life in Cardiff, employability prospects, budgeting, you can hear from students who were in your shoes a few years ago.
Parent Panel Q&A
Parents and guests attending can ask their questions to our panel of parents of students who have recently, or are currently guiding their students on their journey to university.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/open-days-and-events/register-for-a-postgraduate-event:
Registration for our Postgraduate events is now open.
Complete the form below to register for one of our events.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation:
Finding the right place to live is a key part of your university experience.
At Cardiff Met, we offer on-campus and private accommodation options designed to provide a safe, social, and supportive environment.
At ​Cardiff Met we currently have nearly 1,000 study bedrooms located at the Cyncoed and Plas Gwyn campuses.
We offer a safe and secure environment for students living on campus, with friendly halls staff to provide support and help throughout your stay with us.
In addition, we also allocate just over 1,200 private en-suite halls to students through nomination agreements with private halls located near to the campuses.
With 549 rooms across campus.
Offering a mix of catered, self-catered, en-suite and shared facility rooms.
Suitable for students studying Sport, Education or Humanities.
Situated close to the Llandaff campus with 392 self-catered en-suite rooms.
Suitable for students studying Art and Design, Management, Health Sciences and Technologies.
Cardiff Met have secured over 1,200 en-suite study bedrooms in privately owned halls of residences, some of which are located close to the campuses.
Our award-winning and FREE Residence Life programme aims to make living in halls one of the best experiences of your university life.
Our year-long calendar of weekly events is aimed at first year students in Cardiff Met halls.
We've given our students tickets to Wales rugby matches, ice skating, film premieres, yoga, pizza nights, book clubs, FIFA tournaments, haircuts, day trips and numerous other social events.
Our students tell us about what living in halls has been like at the end-of-year BBQ organised by ResLife.​
Here's Primary Education Studies student Holly talking about what it's like to live in student halls.
Here are current students Gavin and Sam with everything you need to know about life in student accommodation.
Humanities student Josie blogs her top tips for living in Cyncoed halls, including advice on what to bring, meeting new friends and making the most of every opportunity.
Fashion Marketing student Ella shares her experience of living in Plas Gwyn halls.
Humanities student Meriem blogs about her guide to choosing accommodation and settling into life in a new country.
Want to see our accommodation options in person?
Come and see us at an Open Day

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/cyncoed-campus:
The Cyncoed Halls are set in landscaped grounds and offer the advantage of studying, training and living on campus.
The campus is regularly served by the 52 Cardiff Bus, which provides convenient transport to the student areas of Roath and Cathays within 10 minutes, as well as offering transport to the city centre of Cardiff.
The campus is a 10 minute walk from a supermarket and Roath Park.
Cyncoed Road, Cardiff, CF23 6XD.
View Google Maps
The campus offers a total of 549 rooms as follows:
All bills are included in your rent and will not increase during the academic year.
Suitable for Cardiff Met students studying Sport in the Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences and for students studying at Cardiff School of Education and Social Policy*.
*Programmes in Social Work, Health & Social Care and Housing are taught at the Llandaff campus.
As such, Plas Gwyn is a better option for students studying those courses.
Learn how to apply and what you need to complete your online application for halls.
This campus offers five categories of accommodation, and costs are based on the relevant standard, the additional facilities available and whether you choose a self-catered or catered option.
When applying for accommodation you may list which type you would like to be allocated in order of preference.
However, we cannot always guarantee you will be allocated your preferred choice.
£152pw – 42-week contract
Offering a single study, ensuite bedroom with access to a shared, fully equipped kitchen.
Each flat is shared by 8 students.​
£158pw – 42-week contract
£168pw – 42-week contract
Each room contains a ¾ bed with an ensuite and access to a shared, fully equipped kitchen.
Each flat is shared by 8 students.
£203pw – 42-week contract
Each room contains a single bed with access to shared bathroom facilities and basic shared kitchen space.
Each flat is shared between 8-10 students.
This is our most value-for-money option while giving you the convenience of being on campus and in the heart of our student community.
£228pw – 42-week contract
Each room contains either a single bed or ¾ bed with an ensuite and access to a shared kitchen.
Each flat is shared between 10-16 students.
*Catered halls = two meals a day, seven days a week.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/plas-gwyn-campus:
​The Plas Gwyn campus is set in attractive landscaped grounds, located in the pleasant cathedral 'city' of Llandaff which is conveniently located for students attending the Llandaff Campus and only two miles from the city centre.
There are shops, restaurants, bars, banking and other facilities within 5 minutes walk and the campus is regularly serviced by Cardiff Bus which transports students direct to the city centre in 10 minutes.
​Llantrisant Road, Llandaff, Cardiff, CF5 2XJ .
View Google​ Maps
Plas Gwyn consists of 392 single study bedrooms, all of which are self-catered and have ensuite bathroom facilities:
The rooms are grouped in flats of eight in which students share communal kitchen/dining areas.
Suitable for Cardiff Met students studying at the Cardiff School of Art & Design, Cardiff School of Management Health Sciences (part of Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences) and Cardiff School of Technologies.
This campus offers three categories of accommodation, and costs are based on the relevant standard and additional facilities available.
Our most value-for-money option offers a single study ensuite bedroom (including a mini fridge) with access to a shared, fully equipped kitchen.
£161pw – 42-week contract
Offering a refurbished single study, ensuite bedroom (including a mini fridge) with access to a shared, fully equipped refurbished kitchen.
Offering a larger bedroom with a mini fridge and additional social space within the fully equipped shared kitchen.
All were refurbished within the last 2 years.​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/partner-halls:
All the Halls are regularly serviced by Cardiff Bus services or are close enough to walk to campus.
Cardiff Met has a long established relationship with each of these halls, which provide modern student friendly accommodation at a reduced price.
Remember, to secure a room in one of these Halls you will need to apply through us only!​​ Do not apply directly as it will cost more, you will have a longer contract and you may not be living with Cardiff Met students.
Unite Blackweir Lodge is located near the Llandaff Campus with over 400 rooms and the halls solely occupied by Cardiff Met students.
All of the rooms are single rooms, which are self catered and have en suite bathroom facilities.
Each room has internet access, with TV’s in the communal kitchen/lounge.
​Nearby there are restaurants and shops and it is a 10 minute walk to the City Centre or 25 minute walk to Llandaff Campus.
North Court is located close to the Llandaff Campus.
All the rooms are self catered and have en suite bathroom facilities.
Over 230 rooms and the halls are solely occupied by Cardiff Met students.
Each room has internet access.
​Nearby there are restaurants and shops and it is a 10 minute bus ride to the City Centre.
Unite The Bakery is located in the city centre.
All rooms are rooms are single rooms which are self catered and have en suite bathroom facilities.
Nearby there are hundreds of restaurants, bars and shops and it is a 5 minute walk to catch the 52 Cardiff Bus for Cyncoed or the 25 Cardiff Bus for Llandaff.
Cambrian Point is a 20-25 minute walk from Cardiff Met’s Llandaff campus and just over a mile from the city centre.
Set in the popular student area of Cathays, it’s close to shops, local amenities, and green spaces like Blackweir Fields and Bute Park.
Nearby bus routes provide easy travel to both Llandaff and Cyncoed campuses.
Unite Tŷ​ Pont Haearn (also known as TPH) is located in the city centre.
All the rooms are single rooms which are self catered and have en suite bathroom facilities.
Nearby there are hundreds of restaurants, bars and shops and it is a 10 minute walk to catch the 52 Cardiff Bus for Cyncoed or the 25 Cardiff Bus for Llandaff.
Yugo Arofan House is located just off City Road close to the city centre.
All the rooms are single rooms which are self catered and have ensuite bathroom facilities.
Within walking distance there are many restaurants, bars and shops and it is a 6 minute walk to catch the 52 Cardiff Bus for the 13 minute journey to the Cyncoed Campus.
Ideally located near the scenic Roath Park and the lively neighbourhood of Cathays – known for its great selection of bars, pubs, and restaurants – Clodien House offers a vibrant setting to live and study.
Cyncoed campus is easily accessible, just a 30-minute walk or a short bus ride away.
It’s also well connected to the city centre, local shops and Llandaff campus, making it a convenient base for study and leisure.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/renting-a-landlord-room:
The Accommodation Service endeavours to help students make the transition from home to university as smooth as possible, therefore, in addition to allocating students places in Halls, the service also helps students find suitable accommodation off campus.
Cardiff Metropolitan University have an extensive list of private houses that are available for students to rent throughout the academic year.
Many of the landlords on our Accommodation List have worked closely with the University for many years and will all have been accredited through Landlord Accreditation Wales.
They will also have provided the University with all legislative certification.
Please remember that you have to pay utility bills in a landlord property and these are likely to increase substantially during the year.
While it is the responsibility of the student to make satisfactory arrangements, the Accommodation Office located on the Cyncoed Campus can help with all aspects of housing advice including checking the tenancy agreement prior to signing.
Cardiff Met students can access the Landlord List by logging in here »
Students who are not yet enrolled and wish to view the list, please contact the Accommodation Service direct for a copy.
Keep an eye on our Facebook account for further information and frequent updates.
Cardiff Digs is a one-stop website for all student housing and living needs, and aims to support you with information and advice about your time spent in Cardiff.
Whether moving from Halls to a house, living in private rented accommodation, or the community you are living and moving into, it aims to stop confusion about living and studying in Cardiff.
Please spend a few minutes looking through the 'Cardiff Living' pack or Cardiff Digs website, which contains information and practical tips on:
Many students will be returning for the 2nd or 3rd year of study and facing the prospect of uncertainty with their accommodation contracts due to COVID-19.
Where University start dates vary or are delayed, we have set out some information below for you to be able to have a clearer understanding of your accommodation contract.
Click here for more information.
For further information please contact the Accommodation Service on 029 2041 6188, accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk , or click on the live chat.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/accommodation-costs:
Fees vary from year to year and from campus to campus depending on the type of room allocated to you.
However, all Cardiff Met contracts cover a 40-week period (coinciding with the academic year), which means that students can stay in halls and leave their belongings in their room during the Christmas and Easter holidays.
Students must sign up for the whole 40-week period and cannot be released from their contract unless a replacement is found or they leave Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Students are still liable for rent until the end of the term in which they leave, provided that they notify the Halls Manager, return their access card / keys and we receive confirmation of their withdrawal from University by the first day of the next new term.
Students living in any of the private halls must sign up for the whole 42-week period and cannot be released from their contract unless a replacement is found.
If they leave Cardiff Metropolitan University then they will still be held to the terms of their contract.
Students in private halls will also require a UK based guarantor before they can move into their room.
Cardiff Met Hall fees are paid in three instalments – Autumn, Winter and Spring.
Unite fees are paid in either two or three installments.
Further details on halls fees and payment methods can be obtained by contacting the Accommodation Services.​
The University has a range of financial support packages to help make paying for your halls a little easier.
Study Life Award
In addition, we’re also here to help if you ever find yourself struggling to pay for your Halls; this can include discussing alternative payment plans or providing other financial assistance and advice.
Please don’t hesitate to contact your Halls Team to discuss the options available.
More details of financial assistance from Student Services and on Bursaries and Scholarships can be viewed here:
All Cardiff Met halls contracts run for a 40-week period.
To find out more about the range of halls and associated costs at our Plas Gwyn and Cyncoed Campuses, please follow the links below:​
All private halls contracts run for a 42-week period.
To find out more about the range of private halls and associated costs, please follow the links below:
Private Hall fee payments are due in either 2 or 3 installments.
Please click ​here to download the Halls of Residence Rent Charging Policy July 2023.
The Welsh Government’s My Travel Pass is available to all students, aged 16-21!
You can apply now to get up to 30% discount on all bus travel throughout Wales up until your 22nd birthday!
It’s quick and easy to apply, just visit the My Travel Pass website.
You need to have a resident address in Wales, but the good news is that your new halls or landlord address also counts!
Apply for My Travel Pass here
Save up to 20% on the cost of your food and drink with our Food Bundle meal plan!
By paying in advance, the meal package allows you to purchase food and drink for even greater value throughout any of the seven catering venues at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Contact us find out more about our meal packages

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/how-to-apply:
Applications Open 1 April at 9am
In order to apply for halls, you will need your Cardiff Met Student ID or UCAS ID Number.
If you wish to receive Private Sector Information, please contact the Accommodation Services directly at accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Halls Applications go live, online from the 1 st of April each year.
Please click here to make your application .
Step 1: You will need your Cardiff Met student ID or UCAS ID number to register your interest.
Step 2: Once you register, you will receive an email with your unique password which will allow you to make your halls application.
Please ensure that you add our email accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk and accomoffers@cardiffmet.ac.uk as a ‘safe sender’.
This will stop emails heading to your 'Junk' mail.
This is particularly important if you use Gmail address.
We recommend you do not use Gmail email address.
Please use a personal email address, not a school one as you may not be able to access it after you have left.
Step 3: Access your application with your password, complete the relevant sections and submit.
Once you have completed your online application it will be sent automatically to the Accommodation Office.
You will receive an acknowledgement e-mail which you should keep as it is proof of your application.
This email will detail what happens next with your application.
If you have not received an acknowledgement e-mail within 2 days, please contact the Accommodation Office directly at accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Priority for a room in Halls of Residence is given to first year students.
When allocating rooms, we take into consideration the date the online Application for Halls was received, availability of accommodation and the eligibility criteria below.
Welsh speakers will be able to inform us if they prefer to live with fellow Welsh speakers.
Depending upon demand we will endeavour to meet that preference.
We will guarantee you a place in University-approved accommodation if you're applying to be a full-time student at Cardiff Met for the first time.
To meet the criteria for guaranteed accommodation, you also need to:
While we aim to meet your preferences, we cannot guarantee them.
Some locations and room types are in higher demand than others, therefore we recommend you familiarise yourself with all the options available.
Unfortunately, due to the limited number of Halls available, we are not able to accept applications from returning students (including those who have previously completed a foundation year) unless there are exceptional circumstances.
Postgraduate students should be aware that Halls are primarily occupied by first year students and that Halls may not be conducive to a Postgraduate workload.
We do not have dedicated Postgraduate Halls.
Applicants holding Unconditional Firm offers who have applied before 31st May will hear before the end of July regarding their offer.
Applicants holding Conditional Firm offers will hear following the 'A Level' results, providing you become Unconditional Firm for Cardiff Met.
We cannot make you an offer of accommodation until you become Unconditional Firm on the UCAS system for a Cardiff Met course.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/how-we-allocate-rooms:
We will not be able to allocate any student a hall of residence place without receipt of a completed online 'Halls Application' Form.
Priority for halls accommodation is given to first year undergraduate students.
Halls are allocated in date order.
Please note that all offers will be made via email.
You must ensure that we have your up to date email address to enable us to process your application.
Welsh speakers will be able to inform us if the prefer to live with fellow Welsh speakers.
Depending upon demand we will endeavor to meet that preference.
Please be aware that students will only be offered accommodation in halls which are designated for their study campus.
The first phase of allocations commences middle of July - this is for students who apply prior to the 31st May and hold unconditional offers.
Unconditional students who apply after 31st May will be placed in the second phase of allocations.
The second phase of allocations commences after A Level results in August and continues through to the start of term.
We can only make offers to students who have received an unconditional offer of an academic place at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Halls of Residence Allocation Policy 2025 (Word Document)

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/catered-halls:
Catered halls options are offered at our Cyncoed campus only.
Catered accommodation includes breakfast and dinner seven days a week during term time!
Many students find the catered option exceptionally convenient, with the two most important meals of the day prepared for you in our K1 restaurant on campus, which is only a short walk from all halls.
Example options (menu’s subject to availability and change throughout the year)
Breakfast
A selection of fresh fruit juices, tea or coffee with either a continental breakfast or any five items from our hot breakfast menu.
Dinner
Select from a two-course dinner with a choice of 3 main courses that include a vegetarian or vegan option with a choice of seasonal fresh vegetables and potatoes.
Your meal comes with a choice of tea, coffee, soft drink or water.
We can also cater for special diets.
Contact our Accommodation Team for a personalised chat in advance, or discuss with our catering team when you arrive.
We’ll be happy to look at what can reasonably be done to meet your needs.
If you choose to live in catered halls, your room and flat will still give you access to a kitchen that includes a lunch/snack area, hob, microwave, kettle as well as standard kitchen amenities.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/accommodation-for-disabled-students:
Plas Gwyn and Cyncoed campuses have several rooms that are suitable for students with disabilities who require adapted accommodation.
Now Students North Court has one studio flat suitable for students with physical disabilities.
Unite Blackweir Lodge has accessible rooms and flats.
Certain other units are also adaptable for use by those with physical disabilities.
Early contact to discuss individual needs is recommended; it is advisable to include a covering letter when returning your halls application form.
For more information regarding support services: Cardiff Met Disability Service

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/contact-us:
Cardiff Metropolitan University Cyncoed Campus Warwick House Cyncoed Road Cardiff CF23 6XD United Kingdom
Telephone : +44 (0)29 2041 6188
Email : accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Facebook : Cardiff Met Halls & Housing

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/student-life:
Deciding where to study isn't just about finding the right course.
It’s about choosing where you’ll feel at home and the opportunities that will help you thrive and grow at university.
Whether it’s the social life, extra-curricular activities or support to help you reach your potential, you’ll find it all at Cardiff Met.
You’ll find a welcoming community, new friendships, and a great place to experience student life.
From vibrant societies and sport teams to global experiences, and all that our capital city has to offer.
Find out more about life at Cardiff Met from our students.
Cardiff Met student Holly chats with current students on leaving home, making friends, and campus life.
Discover how the SU supports students as well as the societies and clubs available.
From performance sport to campus sport, find out more about study and play options at Cardiff Met.
Discover your options on where to live as a student at Cardiff Met.
Our dedicated team will support you to fulfil your academic and professional potential.
Essential information on fees and finance, bursaries and scholarships.
A city brimming with culture, green spaces and scenic waterways.
With a passion for sport, music and a fantastic student nightlife there’s something for everyone.
Explore the diverse shopping options and international food scene, or take on adventure just outside of the city with some of the UK’s best coastline and mountains on our doorstep.
The city is well-connected, with great transport links, and is consistently ranked as one of the most affordable student cities in the UK.
*
* NatWest Student Living Index

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/student-life/life-in-cardiff:
Explore the diverse shopping options and international food scene or take on adventure just outside of the city with some of the UK’s best coastline and mountains on our doorstep.
Whether you’re from Cardiff or considering studying here from afar, your new home is ready and waiting.
When it comes to choosing where to study, it’s not just about finding the right course – it’s about selecting the place where you’ll spend the next few years of your life.
Although our city has a global reputation, it has a local feel – and one of the friendliest communities you could hope for.
You’ll find the thriving student population mostly based in Roath and Cathays, two bustling suburbs brimming with independent cafés, bars, pubs and shops, both walking distance into the city centre.
Join us for a whistle-stop tour of the city’s must-see locations and hidden gems.
Our City, Your Home.
Cardiff is consistently ranked as one of the most affordable student cities in the UK.
NatWest Student Living Index
Cardiff prides itself on its buzzing music scene.
Home to smaller indie venues celebrating homegrown talent, like Clwb Ifor Bach, Jacobs Roof Garden and the Tramshed, you’ll also find internationally acclaimed bands at the Utilita Arena Cardiff and some of the world’s biggest artists performing at Principality Stadium.
Stick around in the summer and watch a plethora of artists perform against the backdrop of Cardiff’s historic castle at the annual summer series of gigs.
Catch a show at the Sherman Theatre in Cathays, live comedy at The Glee Club in Cardiff Bay, or a film at one of Cardiff’s four multiplex movie theatres, Everyman Cinema and a handful of pop-up cinemas at Cardiff Castle and rooftop venues around the city.
The iconic Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff Bay is a world-famous theatre and arts venue, ideal for musical fans, and at Chapter Arts Centre in the suburb of Canton you’ll find a cinema, contemporary theatre, bar and café all rolled into one.
When it comes to food, your first port of call is in the heart of the city centre at the historic Cardiff Market.
Trading produce since the 1700s, Cardiff Market has now become the go-to venue for independent street food vendors, vintage clothing shops, traditional Welsh cuisine (warm Welsh cakes straight from the griddle!) and artisan coffee.
The city offers both big-name chains and an independent food scene with regular pop-up events and festivals around the city, such as the Street Food Circus.
You’ll find traditional pubs, cocktail bars, and craft beer bars alongside a mix of nightclubs which all host weekly student themed nights.
Depending on your idea of a night out, Cardiff also has a host of social entertainment venues, such as board game cafés, retro arcade bars and competitive game bars.
Unique venues like The DEPOT – an independent, experience-led space established by Cardiff Met Marketing graduate Nick Saunders – offer a mecca for street food, live events and the notorious BINGO LINGO.
Spend your weekends in Cardiff soaking up the atmosphere at a host of different sports.
From football at Cardiff City Stadium, international cricket at Sophia Gardens, to ice hockey with the Cardiff Devils in Cardiff Bay and international rugby at Principality Stadium, Cardiff has a wealth of events to keep you entertained.
And if you want to join in the heart of it, you could be involved in the annual Cardiff 10k and Cardiff Half Marathon.
Or to ease into it gently, join one of the five weekly park runs across the city.
For those seeking adventure, indoor climbing, white-water rafting, go-karting, ice-skating or swimming in a state-of-the-art Olympic sized pool are all at your fingertips.
You’ll also find some of the UK’s best surfing and coasteering, and biking, hiking or horse riding at the Bannau Brycheiniog (Brecon Beacons) National Park, all within an hour of the city.
Cardiff is the perfect base for exploring everything that Wales has to offer.
International student Amanda shares how she fell in love with Cardiff after visiting on an Open Day.
She and Holly talk about the city’s welcoming vibe, its perfect size (not too big, not too small) and how easy it is to feel at home.
From coffee shops to park walks, Amanda reflects on what makes Cardiff the ideal student city.
Some images: © Crown Copyright.
Licensed under the Open Government Licence v3.0.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance:
These pages will guide you through the funding options and financial support available to help fund your time at University.
From Tuition Fee Loans and Maintenance Loans, to the non-repayable grants, bursaries and scholarships that may be available.
Click on the relevant links below to find out more, or contact us on the relevant details if you have any queries.
For Undergraduate Students, find out more about Student Finance options, including tuition fees, maintenance loans, and support specifically for Home (UK/EU) students.
If you’re considering Postgraduate or Part-time Study , you can explore tuition fee information and funding options tailored to postgraduate, research, or part-time learners.
For International Students , discover detailed information about tuition fees and available scholarships to help support your studies at Cardiff Met.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/student-services:
We provide students with support and guidance, including counselling and mental health, disability support, and money management.
These services encompass counselling, financial advice, and assistance with disability and dyslexia.
We support students who experience a range of disabilities, including specific learning difficulties.
We also offer free, confidential mental health and wellbeing support.
Complete our Disability, Wellbeing and Counselling support form to get started.
If you are worried about a friend or fellow student, or are a member of staff concerned about a student, you can make a referral to the service through our Cause for Concern form .
Visit the i-zone to book appointments and get help with non-academic queries.
Friendly staff from the Student Support and Employability team are available on both the Cyncoed and Llandaff campuses to answer questions about student services, help with booking appointments, assist with tuition fee payments, verify qualifications, and more.
For more information, visit the i-zone page .
Current students can book appointments to access a range of services by logging into MetHub .
If you need assistance with the booking process, the i-zone team is ready to help.
We offer an interactive online wellbeing toolkit called “Being Well Living Well,” which is accessible through Moodle.
This resource is designed to help students maintain their mental health and wellbeing.
Explore the toolkit on Moodle .
Students experiencing financial difficulties may be eligible for assistance from the University.
To initiate the process, complete the Financial Support Appointment Request form .
For general inquiries, you can reach out to us via email at studentservices@cardiffmet.ac.uk or by phone at 029 2041 6170.
Our offices are located at both the Llandaff and Cyncoed campuses.
For detailed contact information, please visit the Contact Us page .
We are committed to ensuring that all students have access to the support and resources they need to succeed academically and personally.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students:
Congratulations once again on gaining your place at Cardiff Met – we can’t wait to meet you in September.
Here you will discover everything you need to know to get started.
Find out how to complete enrolment with top tips and answers to the most common queries.
You'll need your MetCard to access facilities and services, so make sure you upload your photo.
Find answers to common questions before you arrive and during your first weeks at Cardiff Met.
What to bring, where to go and how we’ll support you when you arrive at your new home.
Discover the key events, activities and socials for students moving into halls.
Starting 22 September, you'll attend events and activities to get to know the University and fellow students.
We have a number of welcome events, so find out which are relevant to you.
How to find your way around Cardiff, including bus routes to campus.
Helpful advice on settling in, looking after yourself, and life admin.
Set up your email, access WiFi and explore the tech you’ll need for studying and support.
Discover how to access wellbeing, disability, financial and academic support to help you succeed.
Complete your online enrolment and find answers to common questions about studying and living in Cardiff.
Key dates and information on joining, induction, and our Doctoral Academy.
If you have questions that are not answered in these pages, email the Admissions Teams or telephone: +44 (0)29 2041 6010

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/careers-service:
Access services and resources designed to enhance your employability skills and better prepare you for the world of work.
If you’re exploring your career options, looking for a job, or need help with a CV or interview, we are here to help.
As a Cardiff Met graduate, you can continue to access support from our Careers Service.​
We work with employers to help them connect ​with our student body and attract the best talent.
Explore ways to recruit our current students and recent graduates.
Information for Employers

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants:
We’re delighted that you are considering applying for a place to study at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
To ensure that you make it through the maze of information, forms and deadlines ahead, we’ve put together all the information you’ll need to complete your application journey.
Within this section of our website, there are dedicated areas for students applying for an undergraduate (first) degree, a masters or research programme and a professional ​course.
At Cardiff Metropolitan University we welcome applications from all ages.
We consider skills and attributes gained from work and other life experiences as well as qualifications, which all need to be stipulated on your relevant application form.
We hope to see you on campus soon!
Visit our Undergraduate Application pages for advice and information on the UCAS application process.
Visit our Postgraduate, Part-Time, Professional and Research application pages.
Visit our Teacher Training Application pages for advice on the PGCE application process.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/entrepreneurship:
Cardiff Met Entrepreneurship is a resilient, active, and engaged community.
Our mission is to empower you to recognise and develop opportunities to create value.
We will inspire entrepreneurs to make an impact locally, nationally, and globally through the creation of social, cultural and financial value.
We will act as a catalyst in the creation of new sustainable organisations, giving founders the confidence and practical skills to create value in their ideas.
We will be nationally recognised for this activity.
Every student will have the opportunity to develop an entrepreneurial mind-set and we will facilitate this by working collaboratively with academic colleagues to support entrepreneurship education, which is engaging, empowering and research led.
We will contribute to the generation and application of world leading research so that the University is recognised as a centre of excellence in entrepreneurial education, entrepreneurship creativity, and innovation.
If you have an idea for a business or want to have a chat to an advisor about freelancing, you can access our support through this simple form .
We are part funded through the kind support of the Welsh Government and Big Ideas Wales .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students:
Discover why Cardiff Metropolitan University is the perfect choice for international students looking to study in the UK.
With a diverse, welcoming community and strong global reputation, we’re here to support you every step of the way - from application to arrival.
Join a UK university known for industry-focused courses, expert teaching, and strong international support.
Located in Cardiff, the vibrant capital of Wales, you’ll find a compact and friendly student city full of culture, adventure, and a wide range of options for eating and socialising.
Watch our video to hear from past and present international students about studying here.
Our friendly and experienced International Student Support Team is here to help you thrive during your time at Cardiff Met.
Explore our undergraduate (bachelor’s) and postgraduate (master’s) degrees designed for global careers.
Check which English Language tests we accept and the scores required.
Select your country to view specific information about entry requirements.
Learn about tuition fees, funding options, and available scholarships for international students.
Helpful guidance and answers to your questions on visa requirements and immigration.
Find out more about finding a place to live with us as an international student
Ready to make an application?
Apply today and start your study journey in the UK with us.
Ready to take the next step?
Explore our undergraduate and postgraduate courses, designed for international students, with industry-focused learning and global career opportunities.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/how-to-apply:
Please click on each section of the How to Apply flowchart to see further details on​ each stage:​​
If you have not yet chosen which course you would like to study please check out our A-Z course lists:​
Entry requirements differ from course to course.
The University values both work experience and academic qualifications and will consider students from a wide range of academic backgrounds.
You may also need to undertake an English qualification before being admitted onto a course.
For guidance on entry requirements from your country please check our Country Specific Information Page .
Our team of International Recruitment team travel all over the world to meet potential students and assist with your queries and application.
In some cases, you can be interviewed and be made an offer in person in your own country.
Found out where our officers will be next by viewing our Country Specific Information Page ​.​​​
For both Undergraduate and Postgraduate programmes, International applications can be made directly to the University using our International Student Application Form .
To assist with the completion of your application form please refer to the International Application Guidance Notes .
For International Undergraduate applicants we also accept applications from the University and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS), details of how to apply can be found on their website .
Current students please visit this page to make an application.
For Post graduate applications to Cardiff School of Art and Design, as well as completing the above application process, you will also need to complete the supporting online form .
In order for us to assess your application, it is very important to provide us with as much information about your academic qualifications as possible.
Therefore, you will also need to submit the following documents with your application:
Supporting documentations are uploaded using the International Student Application Form .
You will not be required to send hard copies of your documents unless requested by the International Office.​​
To stay updated on important dates, make sure to add the following important dates to your diary.
Click here to view the full calendar of important dates .​
If you have any questions about your application or what you need to qualify for entry onto your chosen course, our team will be very pleased to give you advice.
Please email askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Our English language requirements will vary depending on your level of study.​
Please note : Research degrees i.e.
MPhil, PhD, Professional Doctorate and Taught Doctorate require IELTS 6.5 with 6.5 in reading and writing or t​he equivalent in a UKVI recognised English Language test.
For further details on acceptable English qualifications please visit our English Language Requirements page.
If you have been diagnosed with a disability you will be please to hear that there is support available​ to you at Cardiff Met.
For full advice ​about this support please read the International Student Guidance for Disabled Students .
Cardiff Met’s Disability Service assists students who have a disability or specific learning difficultly to access support enabling them to fully participate in their studies.
At Cardiff Met we currently support over a thousand students with a range of disabilities which include:
If you think that any of these apply to you please ensure that you declare this on your application form.
Any declared disabilities will be treated confidentially as stated in our Confidentiality and Disclosure policy .
For more information on disabilities and available support please see Cardiff Met’s Disability Service webpage and the Equality Act 2010 .​​
​​​​​A confirmation email will be sent to you upon receipt of your application.
A decision on your application should be received by email within 5 working days.
​The International Office admissions process adheres to the University's Admissions of Students Under 18 Policy .
If you are successful and you are made an offer, you should contact the International Office as soon as possible to tell us if you wish to accept your offer.
We will then provide you with further information regarding the progress of your application and preparing to arrive at the University.
The University does not discriminate on the basis of age and admits a small number of students annually who are aged under 18 at the commencement of their programme of study.
The University is, however, an adult environment and treats all its students as mature and independent individuals, and students aged under 18 are treated in the same way.
The full arrangements for under 18s are outlined in the Admission of Students Under 18 Policy .
This document aims to be explicit about the respective individual responsibilities of the University, the student, and parents/guardians.
All students aged under 18 are required to have a named guardian within the UK and parents are required to formally sign a Consent Form before an unconditional offer is made.
This Form will be sent directly during the admissions process.
We welcome applications from students studying Cardiff Metropolitan courses within our overseas partner institutions.
The following information is provided as guidance to students wishing to transfer to the UK t​o complete current qualifications or to undertake further studies with us.
I wish to transfer my studies, what do I need to do?
If you are wishing to transfer and complete your studies, please provide a copy of your transcripts and provide details of all completed and pending modules.
We will then request the relevant Programme leader to map across your modules to ensure that we can transfer you directly and ensure that you are allocated the correct fee amount for your remaining tuition.
I have completed a Cardiff Metropolitan degree overseas, can I now study masters in the UK?
Yes – we welcome all our overseas graduates for further studies with us in Cardiff.
You would also be eligible for our £2000 Alumni scholarship awarded to students who have completed their Undergraduate studies with Cardiff Metropolitan and progress onto Masters in the UK.
Application Process
In order to apply, please use our International Student Application Form .
With your application, please provide the following support documents:
You will not need to provide a recognised English language qualification, instead the successful completion of the Cardiff Metropolitan University English Language Interview will form part of a conditional offer.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/fees-and-finance:
Within the University, we have a great deal of experience of working with International Students and as such we understand how much of an investment it is to stud​y in the UK.
We are also aware that at first it can be difficult to manage your finances accordingly when moving to a different country.
We therefore want to ensure that you have the most detailed and accurate information regarding all the costs which you may encounter during your time in Cardiff.
You should ensure that you have enough money to pay for your fees and your living expenses for the whole of your course at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Any earnings from part time work should be seen as additional spending money and should not be factored into your budget for course fees or accommodation fees.
Please also bear in mind that you will be unable to obtain any money from the University or any other UK organisations once you arrive.
UK visa authorities in most countries will ask to see proof that you have the necessary finances to cover food and living expenses before you can be granted a visa.
Like all other UK universities, all academic and accommodation fees must be paid in full to the University whilst you are studying with us.
If you do not do this you will be unable to graduate from your course or gain a certificate for your studies.
However it is possible to pay your fees in instalments if you are not able to pay them in full when you begin your course.
Overseas fee paying students must make a deposit fee payment as stipulated on our official offer letter to join your course.
All Undergraduate and postgraduate programmes require a 50% deposit of your total course fee.
For example, if you course fee after scholarship is £16,000 , you will be required to make £8,000 deposit by the deadline as stated below and on the offer letter.
Our offer letters also include the payment schedule for the year you intend to join the University.
Details of the payment methods for the University can be found on our Fees and Finance Make a Payment pages .
A small number of courses have additional costs , which are mandatory or optional expenses, additional to tuition fees, that need to be paid for by students to fully participate and complete their studies.
The university's full Fee and Debt Management Policy can be found on our Policy Hub in the Finance section.
We believe all students deserve the opportunity to enhance their career prospects, irrespective of their financial situation.
That's why we offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships and studentships to support our International students.
For full information please visit our International Scholarship page .
WARNING – DO NOT MAKE YOUR TUITION FEE PAYMENTS VIA A THIRD PARTY PROVIDER
Making a tuition fee payment via a currency agent or third party who claims that they will pay your tuition fees on your behalf at a favourable exchange rate, could cost you double the amount of your tuition fees.
Cardiff Met is seeing an increasing number of students who have paid their tuition fees to an organisation claiming to offer very good exchange rates.
The organisation then keeps the students’ money and uses stolen credit cards to attempt to pay the fees to the university.
When the owners of the stolen credit cards contact the university, the money is refunded back to their cards as the payments have not been authorised by the account holder.
Students who think they have paid their fees must then find more funds to cover their tuition fees.
PLEASE DO NOT TRUST THESE ORGANISATIONS.
We recommend that you pay your fees directly to the university to prevent you becoming a victim of fraud and having to find additional funds to pay for your tuition.
Please visit Fees and Finance Make a Payment for all payment methods accepted by the University.
Upon receipt of your payment and acceptance form, Cardiff Metropolitan University will send a confirmation email to the email address that you provide.
A letter confirming receipt of your payment and acceptance onto your course will also be sent to you or your agent.
Please note that this letter will act as a formal receipt for your payment and should be used to apply for your student visa.
Whilst you are a student at Cardiff Metropolitan University, it is your responsibility to ensure that your academic and accommodation fees are paid on time.
Please visit Fees and Finance FAQs for further information regarding instalment options.
To pay your tuition fee balance, please use one of the payment methods listed at Fees and Finance Make a Payment .
It is important that you arrange your finances before you arrive in the UK to ensure that you are able to make payments on time.
As with other UK universities, Cardiff Met has a regulation that all academic fees must be paid in full whilst you are studying at the University or else you will not be permitted to graduate from your course and gain a certificate for your academic achievements.
If you do not pay your fees on time, you will receive letters from the Finance Office and may be prevented from continuing with your studies or re-enrolling onto the next phase of your course until your fees are paid.
If you find yourself in a situation where you are unable to pay your fees, you may be advised to suspend your studies until you are in a position to clear all outstanding debts to the University.
Please note, any change to student’s status at the university must be reported to UK Visas and Immigration, which may consequently result in a curtailment/cancellation of their visa.
For further advice about fees and related immigration matters, please see the University Debtor Policy in the Related Links section or contact the Global Student Advisory Service at intstudentadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Eligibility for a refund will be assessed on a case by case basis.
For full terms and conditions, please read the International Student Refund Terms and Conditions .
For further enquiries about refunds please email internationalrefund@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
It is essential that you have enough funds to pay for your fees and your living expenses for the whole of your course at Cardiff Met.
The cost of living in Cardiff is not as expensive as living in many other large cities in Britain.
UKVI advise that students should budget £1136 per month to cover their living expenses whilst studying in the UK.
We recommend you have a look at this budgeting tool .
When considering how to bring your money to the UK, it is important that you take security into consideration.
You should ensure that you bring a small amount of cash only to pay for any incidentals on arrival such as a taxi / bus fare, however it is recommended that you bring a MasterCard or Visa debit/credit card with you as a large number of shops are currently only accepting card payments.
You will also require a MasterCard​ or Visa debit/credit card when purchasing your groceries online when you are self-isolating and to pay your tuition fees.
The answer to this is normally yes, however it will depend on the type of visa you are granted.
For more information about working please click here.
It is usual practice for universities to classify asylum seekers as international students for tuition fee purposes, due to their temporary residency status.
However, in order to make higher education more affordable, Cardiff Metropolitan University is very pleased to confirm that asylum seekers (who have not received a scholarship) will be charged the same fee as local students, rather than the higher international student fees.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/english-language-requirements:
Understanding the many requirements for studying at university can be very confusing.
This is why at Cardiff Metropolitan; we consider a number of recognised Secure English Language Tests (SELTS) which are supported by the UKVI for entry to the UK.
The University also considers high school English in support of Undergraduate and Postgraduate entry to courses.
The list below compares some of the tests that we consider for entry to our courses, however we also accept the Cambridge ESOL tests and those English language qualifications accepted by the UKVI.
A full list of these tests can be found on the UKVI website .
N.B.
For admissions and CAS purposes, period of validity for all English language test certificates is 2 years prior to the start date of your course.
For some countries we are able to assess English using High School qualifications and supplement this with either a Cardiff Met English language interview (undergraduate applicants) or by requesting evidence you have been taught through the medium of English during your degree (postgraduate study where we require 6.0 IELTS (5.5 in each score)).
As such, please refer to your offer letter to see if you are required a SELT, interview or need to provide a letter of attestation.
**Some courses may require higher overall score and/or sub scores – please visit the course specific pages to confirm.
All SELTS must be taken from an UKVI approved secure Test centre, a list of which can be found at Prove your English language abilities with a secure English language test (SELT) - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
If you require any further guidance on whether the University will accept your qualifications, then please email our Admissions team at askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Under new guidance, from 24th November 2016, if you have previously completed an academic qualification equivalent to a UK degree which was taught in a majority English speaking country which you are not a national of (listed below), you are exempt from demonstrating your English Language ability on submission of an official documentation produced by UK NARIC which confirms the translation.
Details about the UK NARIC costs, processing times, example certificate and how to apply can be found here .
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) state that if you are a national of one of the countries listed below you do not need to provide evidence of your English Language ability when you apply for your visa to study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/visas-and-immigration:
On this page you will find frequently asked questions about visas and immigration.
We offer free expert visa advice to students applying to Cardiff Met.
Students will need a Student Visa entry clearance (visa) to enter the United Kingdom to study (except those on a course of study of six months or less who may qualify for entry under the category of standard visitor visa).
If you have a different type of visa, it is important to check if study is permitted or contact immigrationregs@cardiffmet.ac.uk for advice.
We advise that you apply for your student visa as soon as possible.
If you are applying from outside of the UK you can apply 6 months before the start date of your course, however if you are within the UK it is only possible to submit an application within 3 months of the start date of the course.
If your visa is not issued in time for the start of your course, you may not be permitted to enter the UK.
During the summer months (June- September) the application process in some countries can take up to 3 months or longer.
The time required to process your visa will depend on the country where you are making your application.
For information on visa processing times in your country please visit the Visa processing times: applications outside the UK - GOV.UK .
A CAS (Certificate of Acceptance for Study) is a unique number allocated to each student visa applicant.
The number will be sent to the applicant by the university and must be entered onto the visa application.
UKVI will use this unique identifier to access full details about the applicant, their chosen institution and their course of study.
To receive your Certificate of Acceptance for Study (CAS) you will need to:
Financial supporting documents will be checked by your agent to confirm they meet the visa requirements, However, if you do not have an agent, the Immigration Compliance Team will check these documents once uploaded to CAS Shield.
Your dependants (husband, wife, civil partner or children) can apply for immigration permission to join or remain with you in the UK only if:
Information on how to apply for a dependant visa from overseas, please visit the UK Visas and Immigration website​ .
UKVI may ask you to attend an interview as part of the visa application process.
The purpose of these interviews is to understand an applicant’s motivation for choosing to study in the UK and to prevent abuse of the visa system.
These interviews are usually conducted via Microsoft TEAMS and will be conducted by Visa Officers.
In accordance with the Immigration Rules, it may be necessary for you to obtain a medical certificate as evidence that you do not have infectious pulmonary tuberculosis prior to making an immigration application for travel to the UK.
The necessity of obtaining this evidence will depend on where you will be making your visa application.
It is important that you check if this rule will apply to you in advance of making your visa application as failure to provide it could result in an unsuccessful application.
The full list of countries where TB Screening is required in advance of making a visa application for entry to the UK can be found on the UK Visas and Immigration website .
Please note, the rule relating to TB screening is dependent on the country where you make your application, not your nationality.
TB Screening is not necessary for visitors, including student visitors who intend to stay in the UK for 6 months or less.
Although you may have obtained a medical certificate prior to arriving in the UK, once starting university you may be called for further TB screening from the local National Health Service TB control service.
This screening involves a skin test to identify latent TB infection which has not been picked up by chest x-ray.
If Latent TB is diagnosed, following this test you will be given medication to cure this to prevent active TB illness developing in the future.
People with Latent TB do not have any symptoms and cannot pass it on to others.
The immigration health surcharge applies to all non-European Economic Area (EEA) nationals who come to the UK to work or study or to join family and those who need to apply for a visa extension to extend their leave in the UK.
For more information regarding the immigration health surcharge please refer to Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application: Overview - GOV.UK
PLEASE NOTE: if you are applying for a 6 month Standard visitor visa to commence a course in the UK for 6 months or less, you will not be exempt from paying hospital fees and you will be charged a high rate for any hospital treatment you receive.
You will therefore need to ensure you have obtained private health insurance from the beginning of your stay in the UK, to avoid having to pay these high hospital fees.
To find out how much you will be required to pay for the Immigration Health Surcharge, access the following information: Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application: How much you have to pay - GOV.UK ​
You will be required to make an online application for a student visa by visiting the UK Visas and Immigration website: Student visa: Apply online - GOV.UK .
You’ll need to have your fingerprints and photograph taken at a visa application centre in your home country as part of your application.
You may be able to get your visa quicker depending on which country you are applying from.
You can check this with your visa application centre.
If you require general advice about the student visa application process you can contact the UK Visas and Immigration: https://www.gov.uk/contact-ukvi-inside-outside-uk
If your visa application is successful, you will receive a short-term (travel) entry clearance visa in your passport which will be valid for 90 days along with a decision letter setting out the full length of leave which will be granted to you to complete your course at Cardiff Met.
The short term (travel) entry clearance visa will enable you to travel to the UK.
Evidence of the full visa you have been granted will be in the form of an eVisa (an online record of your immigration status).
Your visa outcome/decision email or letter will tell you how to create an account and get access to your eVisa .
An eVisa is an online record of your immigration status and the conditions of your permission to enter or stay in the UK.
The e-visa will be accessible online via a UKVI account and shareable through a share code.
Please ensure you read the Get access to your online immigration status (eVisa) - GOV.UK .
To prove your immigration status to the university, employers, landlords and airlines, you will need to generate a share code from your eVisa account.
Full instructions on creating a UKVI account to access an eVisa are available at: www.gov.uk/evisa
It is essential that you take the time to prepare all the necessary documentation that will be required to allow you to make a strong visa application.
The required documents are listed below although not all of them will be applicable to you:
At present, you must show that you have maintained your tuition fees (minus any fees that you have already paid to the university) plus living costs of £1136 per calendar month of the course you are due to study, for up to a maximum of 9 months.
E.g.
For students studying on a 12 month course, the Home Office will calculate living costs as £10,224 (£1136 x 9 months).
The total amount of money you will be required to show for tuition fees and living costs must be maintained in you/your parent(s) bank account for a consecutive 28 day period, ending no more than 31 days before the date of application.
(Please note that this advice is only applicable to students who are due to study in an institution based outside London).
PLEASE NOTE: If your family member(s) will be submitting dependant applications, the amount of money each dependant will be required to show for living costs is £680 per calendar month (up to a maximum of 9 months).
For students studying on a 12 month course, the Home Office will calculate living costs for each of their dependants as £6120 (£680 x 9 months).
Your visa will be granted for the length of your course plus an additional:
This is a certificate that some PhD and Masters students must apply for prior to making a visa application.
You will be advised by the university if you require an ATAS certificate.
Further information about the ATAS Scheme .
If you obtain a Student visa to study at Cardiff Met, you will be able to work part-time during your studies for a maximum of 10 or 20 hours per week, depending on the type of course you are studying.
You will also be permitted to work full-time hours during official university vacations.
Cardiff Metropolitan University will need to provide this information to the UK Immigration Authorities if requested.
Visa routes that permit work in the UK include the Graduate Route, Skilled Worker, Government Authorised Exchange and Global Talent.
It is important that you meet the eligibility requirements of the visa route you wish to apply under before making an application.
Requirements change on a regular basis, we therefore recommend that you access the UK Visas and Immigration Website for further details about  options available to you.
The Graduate route visa is a very popular choice and allows students who have successfully completed an undergraduate or postgraduate degree in the UK to apply for a visa which will permit them to live and work in the UK for 2 years after study.
PhD students can apply to stay for 3 years.
You do not require sponsorship from an employer to apply for this route, however the University must be aware that you are applying in order to provide UKVI with essential information about your studies to confirm your eligibility for the route.
Visitors are allowed to undertake the following types of study with this visa:
You are not permitted to undertake any work whilst in the UK on a Standard Visitor Visa and you will not be able to extend your visa or switch to a Student Visa or most working routes.
It is important that you check that the information in your UKVI Account is accurate and up to date before you travel.
Check your eVisa is correct before you travel - GOV.UK
If you discover an error with your eVisa or you have updates to make, this should be done as soon as possible to avoid encountering any difficulties Update your UK Visas and Immigration account details: Overview - GOV.UK
Visitors to the UK need an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) if they do not need a visa for short stays of up to six months, or do not already have a UK immigration status.
More information about applying for an ETA can be found on Check if you can get an electronic travel authorisation (ETA) - GOV.UK .
Have more questions?
Please contact us via CAS Shield.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/accommodation:
Although Cardiff is a capital city with a global reputation, you’ll find it friendly and compact so it’s easy to get around.
We have a thriving student population and many different options when it comes to choosing where to live.
Visit our frequently asked accommodation questions page for international students.
Cardiff Met owns and operates halls of residence at two locations, conveniently placed to accommodate students studying on either of our campuses.
Rooms at Plas Gwyn halls are allocated to students studying at the Llandaff campus and rooms at Cyncoed halls are mainly allocated to students studying at the Cyncoed campus.
There are a variety of options across both campuses from ensuite or shared facility rooms, to self-catered or catered (at Cyncoed campus only).
Rooms are categorised as Classic, Classic Plus and Premium, with prices reflecting the relevant standard and facilities available.
Find out more about the different categories of rooms, costs and how to apply.
We also provide private ensuite rooms to students through agreements with private halls located near our campuses or in the city centre.
A full list of private halls can be found on our website.
You apply for privately owned halls in the same way as University owned accommodation by selecting within your preferences.
The contract however will be with the private halls of residence.
Cardiff is a popular destination for students and we continue to see high demand for university accommodation in or near the city.
As costs can fluctuate in line with demand, we would encourage you to factor this into your financial planning before you arrive.
You should also be aware that it has become increasingly common for landlords to ask for a UK-based guarantor or alternatively, for students to pay their rent up to 6 months in advance in addition to their deposit (usually equivalent to one month's rent).
If you are planning on renting in the private sector, you should also prepare for this up front cost before you arrive.
Be aware: We would strongly recommend that you do not secure accommodation advertised through Facebook or Gumtree.
Unfortunately, as in many places across the UK, there have been incidents of students being targeted by fraudsters through these platforms and paying sums of money through bank transfer for properties that do not exist.
It is important to also note that housing agents or landlords are not allowed to charge 'non-refundable agency fees' including finders fees, fees to secure a property or fees for signing a contract.
Whilst we would advise you start looking for accommodation before you arrive to research availability and costs, we would still recommend that you do not formally sign a contact/tenancy agreement until you have viewed the property in person.
Find how to get more advice

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/important-dates:
The University is always available to answer any queries you may have regarding coming to Cardiff Metropolitan and making the most of the services we provide.
All undergraduate and postgraduate programmes require a 50% deposit of your total course fee.
For example, if you course fee after scholarship is £16,000, you will be required to make £8,000 deposit by the deadline as stated below and on the offer letter.
Details of the payment methods for the University can be found at Fees and Finance Make a Payment pages .
In order to ensure you do not miss any important dates, we recommend that you add the following dates to your diary:
MBA (including pathways and internship) and MSc Advanced Computer Science only available for this intake.
PLEASE NOTE: Deadlines for applications, offers and deposits is by 12noon UK TIME on the date specified below.
Dates are subject to change.
Where possible, any changes to these deadlines or dates will be communicated as quickly as possible.
PLEASE NOTE : Deadlines for applications, offers and deposit payment is by 12noon UK TIME on the date specified above.
** Dates are subject to change.
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Courses (excluding PGCE and MSc Sports Rehabilitation & Conditioning)
PGCE Primary and Secondary Dates
MSc Sports Rehabilitation & Conditioning Dates
You can view the full calendar for the upcoming academic years here ​.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/contact-us:
If you have any questions about coming to study at Cardiff Metropolitan University, please complete the form below and we will get in touch with you as soon as possible.
Alternatively, you can send us an email at askinternational@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call our office on +44 (0)29 2041 6045 (option 1).

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/country-specific-entry-requirements:
The Admissions team provide information and advice to prospective applicants, teachers, career​s and education advisers specific to many regions and individual countries around the world.
Please select your region and click the country of your choice from the list below to view information about entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international:
Cardiff Met welcomes students from 100+ countries, creating a multicultural learning environment in Wales and worldwide.
Our practice-based teaching empowers students with the skills and confidence to succeed globally.
Through research and international partnerships, we tackle major global challenges.​
Rigorous, hands-on teaching – led by industry experts from around the world – forms the foundation of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Cardiff Met is committed to enhancing education worldwide through partnerships, leadership development, and international projects.
Find out more about our work.
Cardiff Met students can see the world with our inspiring range of study, work, or volunteer abroad programmes.
Get all the guidance you need on applying for a UK student visa, including help with CAS, visa requirements, and understanding the latest immigration rules.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is proud to be associated with such high-calibre partners in the UK and internationally.
We offer asylum seekers, refugees and migrants the opportunity to study here for free, or at a reduced rate.
Because university should be within everyone’s reach.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international/transnational-partners:
A number of different models of collaboration are employed, to ensure that the programmes meet the particular needs of students and employers as well as being of the highest quality.
Below you will find information on the different overseas partners Cardiff Metropolitan University is associated with.
www.aast.edu/en/
www.beacon.edu.sg
https://cityu.gr/en/
https://dimensions.edu.sg/
www.gulfcollege.edu.om/
www.icbt.lk/icbt/
www.mubs.edu.lb
https://en.neu.edu.vn/
https://www.perrotiscollege.edu.gr/en/
www.sist.ac.ma/
www.universalbusinessschool.com
https://vum.bg/

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international/global-outreach-projects:
Social responsibility - both locally and globally - underpins the work of Cardiff Met.
The University supports and promotes the development of higher education systems around the world through projects that work with individuals, institutions and governments in areas including internationalisation, leadership development and quality system.
These so far have been achieved through the participation in British Council projects as well as Erasmus+ Key Action 2 Capacity Building Projects.
We are looking to enhance these through the creation of outreach opportunities through Global Games and our Global Grants Scheme.
The B-International It aims to provide staff at universities in Pakistan with a framework by which to implement international strategies that support the wider aims of the universities and to provide staff with knowledge and practical tools to implement international activities that support the strategic aim of both the university and the wider Higher Education sector.
The project will therefore examine traditional components of internationalisation such as mobility, TNE and international research, but will also include more contemporary concepts such as developing international campuses that explore the wide tapestry of international cultures.
Read more about the B-International Project
Enabling an environment of Quality for International HE Partnerships between the UK and Vietnam' (EQUIP) is a project supported by a UK-Viet Nam Partnerships for Quality and Internationalisation grant from the British Council.
The UK-Viet Nam Partnerships for Quality and Internationalisation grants support capacity building, knowledge exchange and collaboration activities between UK and Viet Nam higher education sector at system and institution level in the areas of Leadership and Governance; Benchmarking HE qualifications and Quality Assurance; and Teaching, Research, Innovation and Knowledge Transfer.
UK-Viet Nam Partnerships for Quality and Internationalisation is part of a wider British Council programme called Going Global Partnerships, which builds stronger, more inclusive, internationally connected higher education and TVET systems.
British Council Vietnam-Fostering a Culture of Quality at NEU
Global Engagement’s Global Grants is a new initiative launched in March 2022.
The Global Grants are open to all staff and students across the University and aim to support activities, initiatives and events themed around integration, cultural diversity and inclusion, our University of Sanctuary status and the Global Engagement element of the University’s 2030 Strategy.
The grants enable staff and students to organise their own activities to support these endeavours.
The grants support activities and initiatives taking place on campus or in the local community.
Grants available are from £100 to £1000.
Examples of eligible activities are:
During the 12 month duration of the project starting from January 2025, Cardiff Met and colleagues at National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) and QAA will be working towards developing a comprehensive and adaptable framework for establishing and assessing transnational education (TNE) partnerships between higher education institutions (HEIs) in the UK and in Nigeria.
The project is designed to address the complexities and challenges inherent in such international collaborations, with a focus on creating practical solutions that can be applied across various contexts.
The initial case study will focus on a scoping activity between Cardiff Metropolitan University and NOUN, serving as a foundation for a broader framework that could be applied to other countries and institutions.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international/study-abroad-and-exchange:
As a Cardiff Met student, you’ll have your pick of inspiring opportunities to study, work or volunteer abroad.
We’ve partnered with over 100 universities, institutions and organisations in more than 27 countries around the world to give our students an adventure they’ll never forget.
Spend anywhere from one week to a year abroad, with funding available from a range of different sources (including us).
We’ve also set up virtual partnerships to help build your soft skills like organisation, time management and the ability to prioritise.No matter where you decide to go, you’ll have the ongoing support of our Global Opportunities team.
You can get advice on everything from applying for a particular programme to looking after your wellbeing while you’re away from home.
As a Cardiff Met student, you’re eligible to apply for several different funding options to support your trip overseas.
Like our £500 GO Global Bursary, which can pay towards travel and placement fees for opportunities lasting one to seven weeks.
If you’re accepted onto a study or traineeship placement through Taith, you’ll get funding towards the general cost of living, as well as a travel grant.
You will also receive financial aid if you secure a placement on the Turing Scheme.
The amount of funding varies depending on the destination and how long your placements is.
Email globalopportunities@cardiffmet.ac.uk for more information.
With our study abroad programmes, you can live like a local, make lifelong friends and deepen your knowledge of a subject – or explore a topic you always wanted to learn more about.
You have many options for where you can go and how long you can stay.
You can take part in an opportunity as part of your course (during your second year).
Or you can apply for a placement on the Turing Scheme, a UK government programme that supports the life-changing experience of studying abroad.
There are also opportunities via the Taith scheme, Wales’s international learning exchange programme.
Some of these are one week long, while others last 12 months.
You can also arrange a semester abroad at one of our partner universities in Canada, New Zealand, South Korea, Switzerland or the United States.
Having a hard time making a decision?
Our Global Opportunities team can help you narrow down your options and find the most rewarding one for you.
Interning overseas can make your CV stand out, help you build international networks and allow you to discover a brand-new culture.
You can take part in a work exchange placement in your first or second year, or as a Cardiff Met graduate.
We offer programmes – such as the Turing Scheme or Taith scheme – in a broad range of career fields, lasting anywhere from two weeks to 12 months, with various start dates throughout the year.
You can also create your own opportunities with any of our partner universities throughout Europe - you’ll just need to discuss the details with us beforehand.
Want to go further afield?
You can work in Japan or at various locations in the United States through the JENZA programme – to name a few.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international/study-exchange-opportunities-at-cardiff-met:
Students can join our close-knit academic community for one or two terms, experiencing all the culture, history and stunning sights the capital of Wales has to offer.
Studying abroad offers a rare opportunity to get a feel for what a place is really like.
Unlike a holiday – which gives you just a snapshot of a different way of life – you’ll be spending months living like a local, immersing yourself in a new culture, making lifelong friends and gaining new skills along the way.
And our team will be on hand to support you through the entire process.
Any student currently taking an undergraduate, master’s or doctorate degree at one of our partner universities is welcome to apply.
Unsure if that applies to you?
Please get in touch with your university’s student exchange team to find out if there is a partnership in place with us.
For more information, please email: incomingexchange@cardiffmet.ac.uk
British students normally undertake three-year undergraduate degrees at university, and we are no exception.
Degrees are split into three years (levels 4 to 6), and students study for 120 Cardiff Met credits (60 ECTS credits) per year.
These modules are taken across two terms.
As a study abroad undergraduate student, you should be taking around three modules per term.
British students also study in a progressive system of education in which the academic subjects develop over a three-year period.
So they’re allocated to set groups, which they’ll remain in for the whole three years of their study.
(This may be similar to the system you had at school.)
As a master’s student, you’ll typically join us for a semester, earning 60 credits during your time here.
If you’re a PhD student, the amount of time you’ll spend at Cardiff Met varies.
Similar to your home university, you’ll take part in a research-based project and be assigned a supervisor.
To find out more, please speak to your university’s exchange or mobility team.
We have five schools at Cardiff Met, and the modules you’re able to take as a study abroad student vary according to the school.
You’ll be asked to choose several provisional modules when you apply – please note, however, that we can’t guarantee your selection.
You’ll confirm your final module selection once you’ve enrolled at Cardiff Met.
For more information about our schools, including a flavour of the kind of modules you might be taking, please visit:
If you need any help, please email incomingexchange@cardiffmet.ac.uk and we’ll be happy to walk you through the module selection process.
If you’re an international student from outside the EU, you’ll need to demonstrate proof of knowledge of the English language.
Students from the EU joining us for one academic year will also need to demonstrate proof of English language skills.
Learn more about our English language requirements.
At Cardiff Met, assessments take place throughout the module, not just at the end.
You will normally be assessed twice, either in a written (exams, case studies, portfolios, essays or reports) or oral format (seminars or group presentations).
You will need to complete all the assessments for any modules you take.
Exemptions must be agreed with both your programme director, module tutor and the Global Opportunities team.
If you don’t complete all of your assessments, then we won’t deem your placement as valid, which means that we won’t endorse any exchange documentation.
Your programme director will be responsible for making sure that your grades are collected and allocated to your profile on Met Central.
We have a 100% attendance requirement, so you will need to be at every lecture and seminar.
Find out our term dates.
If you’re studying with us for a full academic year, then you’ll be able to apply for a place in our halls of residence.
Accommodation contracts are usually for 40 or 42 weeks, which means you can leave your belongings in your room over the Christmas and Easter holidays.
It’s worth noting that halls of residence are mainly for first year undergraduate students.
Living in halls offers a fantastic opportunity to get to know lots of students from across the UK and further afield.
If you have any questions about our halls of residence, please email accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 29 2041 6188.
You can apply to study abroad at Cardiff Met through our online application system .
Please submit your application by:
Please email incomingexchange@cardiffmet.ac.uk if you need support completing the application.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international/university-of-sanctuary:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is a very diverse and inclusive institution with its students coming from almost 140 different countries over the last five years.
We strive to provide equal opportunities to all, regardless of background and promote a culturally cohesive community, bringing people together, physically or virtually, to promote tolerance and understanding and a sense of belonging for all communities.
Universities of Sanctuary is an initiative of the City of Sanctuary movement which encourages local communities and organisations to work together to make the city a welcoming place for forced migrants.
Cardiff Met was proudly recognised as a University of Sanctuary in 2018 because its efforts to create a safe and welcoming environment for asylum seekers, refugees and migrants fleeing violence and persecution and supporting them to reach their potential.
In order to make higher education a more realistic option for people seeking sanctuary in the UK, annually Cardiff Met is pleased to offer a number of undergraduate and postgraduate scholarship opportunities.
For the selected scholarship recipients, all tuition fees are waived for the entire length of the course.
In addition, all other asylum seeker applicants will be offered places with the same standard fee as local students rather than the higher international fee.
More information about the Cardiff Met Sanctuary Scholarship can be found here or email sanctuary@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research:
With an excellent track record in applied research, supported by a strong base of expertise and advanced scholarship, our research impacts business, industry, the economy, society and our communities.
In the UK Government’s last research assessment exercise (REF 2021) Cardiff Metropolitan University demonstrated exceptional research capabilities, with 70% of our overall submission rated as Internationally Excellent or World Leading.
REF 2021 defined impact as effect on, change or benefit to the economy, society, culture, public policy or services, health, the environment or quality of life, beyond academia.
Cardiff Met’s impact was found to be 80% Internationally Excellent or World Leading.
A thriving research community designed to inspire innovation.
We provide state-of-the-art facilities, collaborative spaces, and funding support to empower impactful research.
Advance your expertise with a research degree at Cardiff Met.
Work alongside leading academics and industry experts in a supportive, dynamic research environment.
Discover how our groundbreaking research drives real-world impact.
From health innovations to creative design solutions, our multidisciplinary projects tackle global challenges for a better future.
Collaboration that fuels discovery and impact.
Our specialist research centres and groups drive knowledge exchange across disciplines, industries, and communities.
Our success in the UK Government’s last REF assessment exercise highlights the strength of our research, with significant contributions to global challenges.
Bridging research and industry for real-world impact.
We partner with businesses to deliver research-driven solutions, knowledge exchange, and innovative strategies.
Unlock your potential with a research degree at Cardiff Met.
Work alongside leading academics, industry partners, and policymakers to drive real-world impact across diverse fields.
Shape the future with research that matters.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-and-innovation-centres-and-groups:
Cardiff Met has a wide range of research centres and groups focused on impactful research across the globe, and covering subject areas aligned to each of our academic schools.
Find out about our collaborations and how we’re contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
You can also view research outputs and publications, as well as researcher profiles and membership of individual centres and groups.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/research-and-innovation-case-studies:
At Cardiff Metropolitan University, our research and innovation activities are focused on delivering real-world impact that benefits people, places, and the planet.
Working in partnership with industry, public services, and communities, we turn academic expertise into practical solutions — helping to address societal challenges, drive inclusive economic development, and support sustainable growth across Wales and beyond.
This collection of case studies showcases the breadth and depth of Cardiff Met’s research and knowledge exchange activity.
From product innovation and advanced manufacturing to clean growth, digital transformation, and enterprise development, these stories highlight how we are shaping a better future through collaboration, creativity, and evidence-based impact.
Our research case studies showcase how Cardiff Met is addressing real-world challenges through innovative thinking, cross-sector collaboration, and research that drives positive change locally and globally.
Read more
Discover how Cardiff Met is delivering meaningful impact across the region, from clean growth and digital innovation to skills development and business support.
Explore how Cardiff Met’s knowledge exchange partnerships are helping businesses innovate, grow, and stay ahead in a competitive market.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/global-academies:
Here at Cardiff Met, we're committed to making a positive impact on the world around us.
Our Global Academies bring together research expertise to address some of the biggest challenges that society needs to overcome.
They are collaborative and interdisciplinary combining our strengths in research, innovation and teaching to address issues affecting us locally, nationally and internationally.
We aim to help improve the world around us collaboratively and compassionately.
Offering a range of postgraduate learning and research opportunities, our Global Academies are international in their outlook.
They are solution based approaches to improving the world around us for future generations.
Our three Global Academies are:
This Academy brings together our expertise in wellbeing, public health, biomedical sciences, leadership and management, sport, physical activity, coaching and technology.
It takes a holistic view of human performance, aiming to improve individuals for the benefit of society, from staying healthy to achieving world-leading success in any field.
Our Health and Human Performance Global Academy addresses UN Sustainability Goals related to good health and wellbeing, decent work and economic growth and sustainable cities and communities.
This Academy combines our expertise in technical, operational and commercial food production and biomedical sciences, along with nutrition, perceptual science and psychology.
Making an impact through new product development, consumer health, inward investment and export initiatives, our Food Science, Safety and Security Global Academy addresses global challenges related to decent work and economic growth, industrial innovation and infrastructure, responsible consumption and production, and zero hunger.
This Academy is aligned to our aim to improve the world around us, fuelling the creation of innovative solutions to global challenges.
Organisations, products, processes and services that place the individual at their centre provide effective solutions.
Our Human Centred Design Global Academy links expertise in design with technology, art, architecture and policy to address a diverse range of global challenges including decent work and economic growth, industry innovation and infrastructure and the impact of public body decisions on future generations.
To find out more about how you can work with our Global Academies, please contact Professor Richard Neil (Head of Research) at rneil@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework:
With an excellent track record in applied research, supported by a strong base of expertise and advanced scholarship, the university's research has direct application in business, industry, the professions and the community at large.​
The UK Government’s last national independent peer reviewed assessment of research quality (REF2021) found 70% of our overall submission to be Internationally Excellent or World Leading.
Meanwhile, our impact case studies (research with an effect on, change or benefit to the economy, society, culture, public policy or services, health the environment or quality of life, beyond academia) were graded 80% internally Excellent or World Leading.
The application of design research into the therapeutic value of playful objects.
The impact of design research on the competitiveness of SMEs.
Improving educators’ use of technology in language teaching across Europe and Eurasia.
The impact of research on the upskilling of teachers to fundamentally transform the new Curriculum in Wales.
The impact of exercise science research on the health, welfare and survival of great apes.
Developing high-quality professional practice via collaborative research with coaches and professional practitioners.
Research into the long-term athletic ability of children and adolescents has impacted national and international policy and practice.
The impact of injury surveillance research on the identification and prevention of head injuries in cricket and rugby union.
Research driven innovation in gluten-free product development.
The impact of the introduction of Peripheral Arterial Disease screening in Mauritius on people with Diabetes.
The impact of the work of KITE on the Welsh food and drink manufacturing sector.
The impact of research informed leadership training on business performance and practice.
Innovative evaluation research methods leading to changes in organisational policy and practice.
The application of COMPS in business settings and its positive impact on performance and efficiency.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-environment:
At Cardiff Met, we aim to continually enhance the quality, reach, and impact of our research, advancing social, economic, and environmental well-being for a fairer, greener future.
This is enabled through a supportive and inclusive Research and Innovation Environment, that facilitates both academic and professional development.
Whether you are a Doctoral Researcher, Early Career Researcher or an experienced Professor, Cardiff Met offers a wealth of support to enable your career development.
This support includes mentorship and engagement with communities, tailored training programmes, and funding and investment, along with platforms to showcase your research and innovation.
We work to support every stage of your research and innovation journey, from the nurturing of ideas to the delivery of innovative and impactful solutions – and all the steps in between, including support on collaborating with other academics, industries and enterprise.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-environment/integrity-and-ethics:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to maintaining the highest standards of professional conduct in all university and research activities.
The Cardiff Met Research Integrity and Governance Framework applies to all members of staff and students involved in research, regardless of whether they are conducting research inside or outside the institution.
The Framework also applies to individuals who are not members of Cardiff Met but who may be conducting research on Cardiff Met premises.
The Framework includes a set of expectations which require all those engaged in research to maintain exemplary standards of academic practice and honesty in all aspects of research by reading, understanding and incorporating the principles and practices set out in the Framework into their everyday work.
The Cardiff Met Research Misconduct Policy also applies to all individuals who are engaged in research at the institution.
This includes all staff, postgraduate and undergraduate students as well as individuals who are not members of Cardiff Met but who may be conducting research on Cardiff Met premises.
The policy requires that allegations of research misconduct are made in writing to the University Head of Research who will establish if a prima facie case of misconduct exists.
The Policy is reviewed every three years, the current version was approved in December 2024.
The University Head of Research is the senior academic lead for matters related to research integrity and governance, including research ethics and is supported by the Research Manager, based in Research & Innovation Services (RIS).
For any queries related to Research Integrity and Governance at Cardiff Met, including concerns related to possible research misconduct, in the first instance please contact:
Kate Jefferies, Research Manager, at kajefferies@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-environment/researcher-development-concordat:
The Concordat is a stakeholder's agreement to support researchers' career development and the research environment within which those careers are built.
Further information on the Concordat can be found here .
The four key stakeholder groups (Funders, Institutions, Researchers and Managers of Researchers) sign up to a range of commitments under three clear principles: Environment and Culture, Employment and Professional and Career Development, with the aim of increasing the attractiveness and sustainability of researchers' careers.
Launched in 2008 the original Concordat was significantly revamped in 2019 to include more ambitious measures and greater accountability for stakeholders.
Cardiff Met became signatory in 2021, with the V-C signing to that effect on the 3rd of February.
A copy of that letter can be found here.
In signing the Concordat, the University has signalled both its continued commitment to supporting our research staff's careers, but also to working in partnership with other institutions and funders to develop wider systematic changes.
The implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of the Researchers is managed by Research & Innovation Services, with day to day responsibility for implementation falling on the University’s Staff Development Officer who sits on the Concordat Implementation Group (CIG).
The CIG is chaired by the University Head of REF and is comprised of researchers and research managers from across the University.
It reports progress against the Concordat Action Plan to the University's Research & Innovation Committee on an annual basis.
Cardiff Met continues to meet all its signatory responsibilities.
Our continued commitment to support researchers at all stages of their careers is evidenced in our Annual Reports to the University’s Board of Governors (BoG).
These reports are signed by the BoG Chair before submission and can be found here:
If you are a member of staff with an interest in the Concordat and would like to get involved in supporting its delivery, please do get in touch with Orla Govers ogovers@cardiffmet.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-environment/research-wales-innovation-funding:
In response to HEFCW circular W20/09HE, please find below Cardiff Metropolitan University’s Research Wales Innovation Fund Strategy 2023/24 – 2027/28.
Research Wales Innovation Fund Strategy 2023/24 – 2027/28
For further information, please contact Matthew Taylor, Director of Innovation at mtaylor@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/collaboration-and-funding:
Cardiff Met recognises the importance of collaboration.
Our knowledge and expertise is supporting organisations and companies across all sectors in the local, regional, national and international economies.
Cardiff Met has a strong track record of collaboratively achieving innovative outcomes, and delivering social and economic benefits.
Visit just some of our case studies to find out more or contact the team at business@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Here are a number of ways we could support you:
Securing the right advice and support can make all the difference.
At Cardiff Met we have expertise that can help you develop your business with tailored solutions through consultancy and development projects.
Working with Cardiff Met on a consultancy basis is an excellent way for us to develop an effective relationship whilst improving your processes, products or services.
Academics from across the University's five schools are supporting businesses in all sectors by using their existing expertise to address a diverse range of challenges.
After taking the time to understand your needs, the Research and Innovation Services (RIS) team will identify academic expertise that matches your needs.
A few areas that RIS and our academics can help you with include:
If your business is facing a challenge that requires know-how that does not yet exist, a Cardiff Met academic could help you move forward by undertaking relevant research on your behalf.
Research & Innovation Services (RIS) can identify the academic expertise that you require and get the process started.
A KTP is a funded partnership between a company, Cardiff Met and an exceptional graduate (Associate).
The project team work in synergy to deliver a strategic project designed to focus on the business need to develop and grow.
KTPs address a knowledge / capability gap within the company by accessing and embedding appropriate academic knowledge from the University via the Associate.
Celebrating 50 years in 2025, KTPs have been consistently driving innovation and collaboration between businesses and universities across the UK.
This pioneering programme has supported thousands of organisations over the 50 years to develop new products, processes, and services by connecting them with academic expertise and supporting the embedding process through a robust, proven project management framework.
Cardiff Met has played a central role in developing KTPs in Wales and to mark the 50-year milestone celebrated, alongside the Welsh KTP community, at the Pierhead Building on 20 March 2025.
Two Cardiff Met KTPs featured in the showcase film for KTP@50 created for the occasion, one of which was our collaboration with Sevenoaks Modular (SOM).
This partnership enhanced the design, manufacture, and installation processes for timber frame prefabricated modular buildings.
Watch the KTP@50 showcase film and see KTPs in action
Who can apply?
SME's, charities, and large companies.
For more information on KTPs, click below:
Get in touch with the team to find out more and discuss your ideas at ktp@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
SMART Partnerships offers financial support to innovative collaboration projects that require a range of expertise to help businesses grow, improve productivity and increase competitiveness.
Cardiff Met has had a number of successful SMART Partnership projects some of which have led onto Knowledge Transfer Partnerships to see some case studies of our SMART Partnership projects, please click the link below:
SMART Partnership Case Studies
The aim of SMART Partnerships is to support collaborative projects, with a clear focus to increase the capacity and capabilities of Welsh businesses to develop R&D activities by linking them with Research Organisations and an associate, to work on a specific project to develop new products, processes and services in alignment with Smart Specialisation.
To find more information please follow the link here:
Develop innovative ideas for organisations, products or services
The Research and Innovation Services can work with you to identify any European funding available for collaboration.
To find out how we can help you please contact business@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Large and small companies depending on the funding.
​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/professional-doctorate:
The Professional Doctorate is a structured, but flexible, Level 8 programme for individuals aiming to study and make a difference to their own workplace and/or practice.
Given the nature of the programme, it is available as a part-time option only.
The award is suited to individuals in the workplace who have ambitions to positively influence the workplace and/or their own professional practice.
You’ll progress through 4 modules supported by a Supervisory team and engage in reflective practice to evaluate the practical change you’ve proposed through your project.
The available pathways are as follows:
Duration and mode: part time, 4.5-6 years
For more information, and to find out if we have the expertise available to support your intended area of research, please complete this form:
Register Your Interest in Postgraduate & Research Study

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/contact-us:
​​Postal Address and Main Contact Details
Research and Innovation Services Cardiff Metropolitan University Llandaff Campus 200 Western Avenue​ Cardiff, CF5 2YB​
Telephone: +44 (0) 292 041 6747
For general admissions and application enquiries, please email askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk
For general enquiries, please email researchadmin@cardiffmet.ac.uk
For international student enquiries, please email international@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Get directions from Google Maps
Join our network and follow us on Linkedin .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business:
Cardiff Metropolitan University supports businesses and organisations of all sizes to drive innovation, develop talent and skills, and create lasting impact within a broad range of sectors.
Through research, innovation, knowledge exchange and collaboration, we are consistently supporting businesses to thrive and grow.
We provide academic insight via funded programmes such as Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, deliver expertise via consultancy, offer commercial facilities or access to emerging, graduate talent.
Whether you’re a start-up, SME, a larger organisation or are within the public sector, we offer tailored support, leadership development programmes and student / graduate partnerships to help you stay one step ahead.
Partner with us to access research, knowledge exchange and consultancy to drive innovation within your organisation.
Supporting our students, graduates, and alumni to develop entrepreneurial skills and ideas, with funding available for startups.
Access Cardiff Met’s emerging talent through placements, internships, and graduate recruitment.
Book modern conference venues, commercial units, and facilities for your business.
Enhance leadership and management skills with our professional development programme .
Find out how to work with Cardiff Met through procurement opportunities and commercial partnerships.
Find out how Cardiff Met can help your business tackle challenges, drive innovation, and connect with talent.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/contact-us:
Postal Address and Main Contact Details
Research and Innovation​ Services Cardiff Metropolitan University Llandaff Campus 200 Western Avenue Cardiff, CF5 2YB
Telephone: +44 (0) 292 041 6747 ​E-bost: business@cardiffmet.ac.uk Get directions from Google Maps
Linkedin Join our Network

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/recruit-our-graduates:
Leveraging the knowledge and expertise of Cardiff Metropolitan University involves much more than graduate recruitment.
There are a wealth of opportunities to help address your business needs and requirements.
We can offer advice and assist you in identifying the appropriate action required to work with our students and much more!
Career ​Services information for employers
Offer our students work experience or recruit them short or long-term.
Recruit our students

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/help-to-grow-management:
Are you a leader in a small or medium sized business?
Do you want to grow or improve your business’s resilience?
Join the thousands of small business leaders in the UK who have completed the Help to Grow: Management Course.
Delivered in the renowned Cardiff School of Management and accredited to the Small Business Charter, Help to Grow: Management includes 50 hours of in-depth training, 1:1 business mentoring, and the opportunity to grow your business and improve your business’s resilience.
Designed exclusively for senior leaders, the course covers strategies for growth and innovation, leading high-performance teams and digital adoption, as well as financial management and responsible business practices.
You will hear from inspirational business leaders and learn alongside local peers, with access to a national alumni network.
By the end of the course, you will develop a tailored business growth plan to increase productivity, grow your revenue and help take your business to the next level.
Future-proof your business today and sign up to a course at Cardiff Met .
The programme will cover key areas of leadership including:
On top of this, you’ll extend your business network by working alongside other business leaders taking part in the programme.
To join the Help to Grow: Management Course , your business must:
To join the Help to Grow: Management Course , the applicant must:
For course specific enquiries or to apply, please contact the Help to Grow: Management team at Cardiff Met:
Email: htgm@cardiffmet.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/commercial-units:
Delivering top class leadership training to the future leaders of both private and public sector organisations.
Visit the 20Twenty website .
Running a variety of projects in association with external bodies to support their analytical needs.
Visit the Sport Performance Analysis page on Pure.
Whether hosting a large conference, training course, meeting, exhibition or sports event Cardiff Metropolitan University have an extensive range of facilities and services available with friendly and experienced staff on hand to ensure your event is successful.
Find out more about what the Cardiff Metropolitan University Conference Services .
FabLab Cardiff is a workshop equipped with the latest in digital manufacturing technology that can be used by designers, artists and the public, as well as companies and other organisations.
Accredited by the global Fab Network users can take advantage of the Cardiff School of Art and Design's research and expertise to make just about anything.
For more information, visit the FabLab website .
Supporting food businesses in both a technical and operational capacity, enabling them to compete more effectively in the global market place.
For more information, visit the Zero2Five website .
PDR is a world leading design consultancy and applied research centre.
Discover more by visiting the PDR website .
For further information please email cshs@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services:
Whether you need to hire a large conference room, an IT training room, meeting rooms, an exhibition centre​ ​or spo​rts venues, Cardiff Metropolitan University have an extensive range of facilities available.
We offer conference venues and meeting rooms with a positive environment and an alternative option to a regular hotel.
Friendly and experienced conference centre staff are on hand throughout your day to ensure a successful event.
There are two locations to choose from which are both close to Cardiff, Wales' capital city, and have easy access from the M4 and on site parking.​​​ ​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/procurement:
Welcome to the Procurement department pages for Cardiff Metropolitan University.
The department provides information, advice and support to all the university's schools and de​partments covering all aspects of procurement.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is an active participant in HEPCW, the Higher Education Purchasing Consortium, Wales.
The university also actively supports the National Procurement Services for Wales and supports the concepts of collaboration in the broader public sector.
If you would like to learn more about Cardiff Metropolitan University Procurement or how to become a supplier to the university or to HEPCW, please visit Information for Prospective Suppliers .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport:
Sport is part of the very DNA at Cardiff Met, where throughout our history we have ​supported and developed a wide range of Olympic and International level athletes.
Cardiff Met Sport offers excellent sports facilities and an extensive range of activities to cater for everyone from elite athletes to students, staff and the wider community.
Find out more by taking an aerial tour of our world-class sports facilities on our Cyncoed Campus.
On these pages you will find information about junior and community sport, performance sport, student sports programmes, sports and fitness membership schemes and much more.
Get access to timetables, facilities, and bookings—all in one place.
Stay up to date with everything Cardiff Met Sport.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/sports-facilities:
Cardiff Met sports facilities are open to all; whether you are an elite athlete, a casual player or you have never taken part before.
Bookings can be made online and on the Cardiff Met Sport App .
Find our more about our sports facilities:
The Archers Arena is located on the Cyncoed Campus and has been designed to accommodate:
The Archers Arena adjoins the gable end of the existing Tennis Centre and features changing rooms and an entrance space.
Take a step inside the new Cardiff Metropolitan University's Archers Performance Centre.
The Astro Turf is located on the Cyncoed Campus and has pitch markings for hockey and football.
It is complete with dugouts, spectator areas, electronic scoreboard, and in-situ IP cameras that are used to provide high-quality video analysis.
It is the home of our student hockey teams and junior hockey academy.
The Dance Studio is located on Cyncoed Campus.
It has a sprung wooden floor and is partially mirrored with 360 degrees of natural light which makes it ideal for the teaching of dance.
Met Active Cyncoed is a purpose-built gym developed for both able-bodied and disabled users.
It is comprised of cardio-vascular machines, weight stations, prowler area, wattbike area and warm-up/cool-down areas.
The Centre also accommodates a free weights area including 7 squat racks, a functional workout area and dumbbells ranging from 1kg-50kg.
Situated on the first floor of the Student Centre in Llandaff, this fitness facility houses the latest cardio vascular and weight training equipment.
The facility is open to students, staff, and the local community.
The National Indoor Athletics Centre (NIAC) is located on the Cyncoed Campus at Cardiff Met.
It is the first purpose-built indoor athletics track in the UK.
The NIAC can also accommodate other sports including netball, basketball and volleyball.
The facility is fully equipped to international standard and has a seating capacity for 690 spectators.
The NIAC is home of our Cardiff Archers Athletic Club .
We have three football pitches at Cardiff Metropolitan University:
3G Football Pitch - Cyncoed
Our FIFA 2-star 3G football pitch is the home of our Men's, Women's and junior academy football teams.
Grass Football Pitch - Cyncoed
We have a grass football pitch located adjacent to our 3G pitch which is primarily used for training and BUCS fixtures.
Grass Football Pitch - Llandaff
Our football pitch in Llandaff is located at the rear of the campus and also has pitch markings for lacrosse.
We also have two grass 5-a-side pitches on the Llandaff Campus.
We have three rugby pitches at Cardiff Metropolitan University:
3G Rugby Pitch - Cyncoed
Our 3G rugby pitch is utilised by the student sports teams for training and competitive fixtures.
This pitch is located inside the outdoor 400m athletics track.
Grass Rugby Pitch - Cyncoed
The grass rugby pitch is situated behind the Archers Arena and Tennis Centre.
It is primarily used for BUCS and National League fixtures, and includes a large spectator stand and electronic scoreboard.
Grass Rugby Pitch - Llandaff
Our grass rugby pitch in Llandaff is located in picturesque scenes at the rear of the campus and adjacent to Llandaff Cathedral.
This pitch is primarily used for BUCS fixtures.
Our Outdoor Athletics Facility consists of a 6 lane 400m track and multiple field event areas to accommodate:
The Sports Hall, located on the Cyncoed Campus, is a multi-purpose facility catering for a variety of sports including badminton, basketball, netball, volleyball, cricket and general training.
Located next to the Sports Hall are 2 Squash Courts.
The courts are used primarily by the Cardiff Met squash team for training purposes, home league fixtures, and BUCS matches.
The squash courts are also used by students and the local community on a recreational basis.
Studio One is a multi-purpose space where a range of our fitness classes take place.
The Spin Studio is where all our spin classes take place, comprising of 15 top of the range spin bikes.
Both spaces can be used by our members when they aren't occupied.
Classes are open to members and non-members.
The pool is a 4-lane, 25 metre indoor swimming pool with a 1m shallow end and 3m deep end.
Located on the Cyncoed Campus, the swimming pool is used by students on various sports courses, the Cardiff Met swimming team , water polo team, junior swimming academy, and the general public for recreational swimming.
This specialist gymnastic facility is fully-equipped to meet the coaching and educational needs and gymnastic-specific ability levels of students within the School of Sport, Cardiff Met Gymnastics squad, and the Junior Gymnastics Academy.
This facility has been developed in partnership with the Lawn Tennis Association and is Wales' Regional Tennis facility.
The Tennis Centre comprises of four indoor courts at the Cyncoed Campus.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/open-campus:
Developing a Collaborative approach to Sport, Physical Activity and Health Provision for the Cardiff City Region at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Cardiff Met Open Campus is a collaborative way of working that delivers sport, physical activity, outdoor play, and health & wellbeing opportunities within the Cardiff City region and beyond.
Open Campus sees university staff and students work collaboratively with the community to produce opportunities for mutual gain providing authentic learning experiences through sport, to further develop Cardiff as a world-leading Capital City of sport, physical activity and health.
We work together to create positive experiences for both students and the community.
What makes Open Campus unique and sector-leading is the alignment of the project with the University curriculum.
This enables us to provide a range of free and paid for opportunities to partners both on and off campus, that are linked to students' degree outcomes and academic research.
On Campus Trusted Partners
On-campus partners provide services and opportunities to the on-campus and off-campus community.
On-campus partners deliver opportunities through student placements that are co-designed between the placement provider and Cardiff School of Sport and Health Sciences.
Through this collaboration the university can increase public health and physical activity.
Off Campus Trusted Partners
Off-campus partners provide services and opportunities to the off-campus community.
Off-campus partners create co-designed student placements with the support of the Cardiff School of Sport and Health Sciences.
Through immersion into the workplace students develop the Cardiff Met EDGE (Ethical, Digital, Global and Entrepreneurial skills), knowledge, experience, confidence and resilience.
Students are exposed to authentic learning experiences through delivery, evaluation, analysis and critique of projects.
Student may also develop new ideas and initiatives to meet partner objectives.
T​hrough a co-designed in-module or placement-based approach Cardiff Met University can contribute to the civic-minded delivery of one-off or annual world class sport and physical activity events on campus or in the Cardiff Capital region.
Students draw upon their intellectual capital at all stages of event planning, delivery and evaluation bringing value to the local community, while benefitting from the authentic workplace experiences that are vital in the development of Ethical, Digital, Global and Entrepreneurial skills.
If you are interested in being involved in-curriculum, through professional placements or events, contact us on: opencampus@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
A key benefit to an Open Campus is the opportunity for people from local communities to participate in sport and physical activity on a university Campus and in some of the finest facilities in the UK.
Open Campus gives us university students to have an opportunity to get stuck into real coaching to be able to gain experience and learn from it.
It has given me the tools to be more flexible and prepared when planning and coming into a session.
I have contributed by engaging in the sessions as much as possible to shape my learning and give future students the best experience possible.
- Guillermo
Open campus has benefited me as I am able to put the things I am learning in lesson into practice which has enabled me to improve my coaching and give children value experience in different sports.
I enjoy being part of open campus as I find it gives us a place where us as coaches can improve our coaching in an active environment with different types of coaches.
It also gives us a chance to perform coaching in different sports rather than our natural sport.
I feel like I have helped the community as we are giving the children chances to use world class facilities with different types of coaches who have different experiences which helps the children fall in love with sport in different ways.
- Connor
I believe that open campus is a great experience for children and coaches to be involved in.
Open campus has helped me to develop my confidence and skills in sport as I have learned great valuable skills.
I have had great experience in coaching kids around Cardiff and has helped me to develop my coaching experience that has benefited me to use these experiences in my future session and in my future coaching roles.
At Cardiff met we offer a great range of exciting new sporting opportunities and great sporting facilities that are a great benefit for schools to come and take part in sports.
Open campus in my opinion is a fun experience for everyone involved and I highly recommend schools to get involved and bring their students for an exciting and fun experience at Cardiff Met University.
- Jack
The Cardiff Met Open Campus way of working plays an integral part to the evolving community engagement and social responsibility strategy for the University.
It is an active embodiment of our values driven approach, empowering our staff and students to engage with our communities.
Through a successful Open Campus way of working, our communities will develop confidence that, through the creation of trusted partnerships, will work hard to effect educational transformation, research with impact, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and health & wellbeing.
Crucially Open Campus also enables us to work in partnership with our students in instilling the Cardiff Met EDGE (Ethical, Digital, Global & Entrepreneurial Skills) to help develop confidence, resilience and experiences that will prepare them for life after university and through to employment.
There are two key pillars that underpin any Open Campus projects:
The alignment of these two pillars is key in developing a programme that can deliver important outcomes for both Cardiff Met and our communities.
Examples of this commitment can be seen in the way of working that has been developed in consultation with Cardiff City Council’s Education Management Team and Healthy Schools Team, ensuring that targeted activities are offered to those most in need.
In Curriculum
A range of modules have been identified where opportunities for schools and community groups can be embedded into the timetabled sessions.
These sessions will all occur within the 10.00-12.00, 13.00-15.00 or 15.00-17.00 timeslots.
Sessions are delivered by Cardiff Met Students under the guidance of our academic staff and will run during the Cardiff Met academic timetable, which runs from October-December and January-March.
The activities offered will vary across sport and health sessions.
Projects
Undergraduate and postgraduate students at the Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences have the option to undertake a work-based learning placement during their studies.
Our placements can range in scope from 80 to 400 hours flexibly over a 12 month period.
Students have the option to take multiple work placements over consecutive years and combine their placement with other learning opportunities such as extended projects.
A wide variety of our placements will be provided through the Open Campus way of working, providing further resource to help support and develop sport and physical activity opportunities both on campus or within your school or organisation.
Signature Events
Signature events utilise in-curriculum activity and professional placements as fundamental and embedded in the development, delivery, and review of one-off or annual events.
Through deployment of resource, infrastructure, and expertise as part of a collaborative, civic minded approach to sport, exercise, physical activity, and health events, we add value to local communities and partners, whilst creating authentic learning opportunities for students.
This way of working aims to contribute to the essential requirements of event delivery, while achieving module or programme learning outcomes through the planning, delivery, and review of events that take place on campus or anywhere in the Cardiff Capital Region.
Projects, Research, and Innovation
All undergraduate and postgraduate students are required to undertake projects, research, and innovation activities within the curriculum.
For example, problem-based learning as an educational approach, or research and enterprise projects in their final year of study.
Students can undertake projects based upon current policies, community issues and initiatives that enable academic achievement and positively impact the community.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/archers-associates:
Cardiff Met would like to thank all of its sponsors:​​​
For sponsorship opportunities, please complete our Sponsorship Enquiry Form .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport:
Working in partnership with National Governing Bodies of Sport and Sport Wales, we provide a number of performance programmes that align with talent pathways.
Cardiff Met has established itself as one of the leading universities for student sport in the UK.
We offer a unique performance environment, that is focussed on ensuring you achieve both your sporting and academic aspirations, setting the foundations for your future career.
Achieve your academic potential alongside training, playing and performing at the highest level in your chosen sport.
We offer a range of sport scholarships to provide financial support to student athletes.
Our performance teams and individual scholars compete in their respective top tier domestic competitions and leagues.
Our dedicated Sport YouTube channel.
Follow our teams in weekley BUCS matches, as well as special features on players and coaches.
From dedicated strength and conditioning support; massage and physiotherpay clinics and performance analysis support.
We have a Dual Career Athlete & Performance Sport Concession Policy in place for all courses at Cardiff Met.
Our performance programmes are led by experienced members of staff and coaches and supported by our Performance Services Team.
We offer world-class sports facilities at our Cyncoed campus to support both the academic and sporting development of our students.
Discover specific events to find out more about playing for our Performance Teams.
Please note that these are different to University Open Days.
We have over 30 sports clubs providing a range of opportunities for our students.
All sports clubs are governed by the Cardiff Met Students’ Union.
After missing out in the play-offs in 2017 and 2018, Cardiff Met FC secured their place in the 2019 Europa League play-off round following victory against Bala Town.
Cardiff Met was massive for my physical development.
The standard of the game is very good.
It has helped me get to where I am now.
The most successful football team in Wales’, Cardiff Met WFC secured their 6th title in eight years in 2019 and qualified for the Women’s UEFA Champions League.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport/performance-sport-and-studying:
At Cardiff Met, we are committed to supporting students to perform at the highest level of sport whilst balancing their studies.
We operate a TASS Accredited Dual Career environment, underlining our committing to dual career students.​
Our policy provides two levels of support:
For both tiers, students may be offered academic concessions such as late submission, non-submission, or alternative assessment formats.
Read our Student Guide to understand the process before applying.
This document also contains a link to the full policy.
Click ​here to ​apply.
For more information, please contact Katie Payne, Athlete Lifestyle & Education Manager, dcapolicy@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/student-sport/clean-sport:
All sporting participants have the right to compete in doping-free sport (Clean Sport).
Cardiff Met is committed to supporting the UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) and World Anti-Doping (WADA) position that cheating, including doping, in sport is contrary to the spirit of competition.
​Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport/junior-sports-programmes:
Cardiff Met Sport offer a range of sports programmes for children aged 4 years and above.
Each programme runs over an eight to twelve-week period during the three school terms.
All programmes are run under the instruction of our fully qualified (and DBS-checked) sports coaches.
Please book and find further information regarding our junior sports programmes on the Cardiff Met Sport App .​
Cardiff Met implements a programme structure within each of the individual sports.
This structure allows for continued development within each sport, from the grass-roots level through to the elite end of the spectrum.
This is a guideline only, dates may vary for different sports:
Please be advised that car parking on the Cyncoed Campus can become very busy.
We recommend leaving plenty of time to park your car before arriving for an activity.​ In the instance that the main car park is full, please be aware that the overflow car park is available to use.
Please ensure you pay and display if you are parked for longer than twenty minutes.
Parking can be paid at the machines or via the ' PayByPhone App '.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport/holiday-sports-camps:
Cardiff Met Sport offers a range of sport camps for children during the Easter and summer school holidays.
The camps cater for all ages and abilities.​
All Junior Holiday Camps will be available to book online or on the Cardiff Met Sport App .
Cardiff Met Junior Sport Camps operates a strict registration procedure whereby parents are required to sign their child(ren) into and out of camp daily.
If any adult other than the adult who signs the child into camp is collecting, staff must be advised of this when the child is signed in and a password must be given by the parent, to the staff and to the adult who is collecting the child.
The manager reserves the right to retain a child on the premises if unable to identify with the person collecting, or without any form of written consent to release the child(ren) from the programme.
In this case, the parent will be contacted prior to releasing any child(ren).
It is important that a member of staff is informed in the morning if you are not collecting your child at the end of the day.
Please remember to sign the release form and arrange for password to be used on collection.
Parents/guardians will be asked to collect children with a suspected illness or infection as soon as possible to safely reduce the risk of a spread throughout the camp.
Cardiff Met Junior Sport Camps is unable to accept a child onto the programme with an existing or recovering (infectious) illness.
In respect of the health and welfare of all children attending the camp, parents are advised to speak with the sport development & workforce manager prior to booking their child(ren).
Parents of children attending camp with an existing injury will be asked to provide details to the manager prior to signing in.
Cardiff Met Junior Sport Camps requires written permission from a parent/guardian prior to receiving and administering any form of medication to a child.
Parents will be asked to provide full details on a separate medication form and to acknowledge, each day, by way of signature and date, that an authorised member of Junior Sport Camps has followed the administrative instructions provided.
Cardiff Met and Cardiff Met Junior Sport Camps maintain detailed policies governing the administration and operation of the camp.
A full copy of our policies can be requested.
If you have any concerns, the manager will be happy to speak with you on the day.
Cardiff Met Junior Sport Camps staff endeavour to manage, monitor and control behaviour where necessary, to ensure the smooth running of the programme and to protect all other children attending the camps.
All Cardiff Met Junior Sport Camps staff follow National Governing Body Coaching Codes of Conduct in the specific sport being coached.
Where children break our behaviour management policy, parents will be contacted to collect their children from the camps.
Cardiff Met Junior Sport Camps is fully aware of its responsibility towards the promotion of equal opportunities and recognises that discrimination is unacceptable in any form.
Cardiff Met Junior Sport Camps fully accept its statutory responsibility and are committed to extending the principles laid down in law to any individual or groups who are treated unfairly.
Public and personal liability insurance cover is provided for all children enrolled onto the Junior Sport Camp programme however personal effects are not included in this cover.
If a query or complaint cannot be addressed with a satisfactory outcome by our staff, parents are requested in the first instance to email the Junior Sport inbox at juniorsport@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Cardiff Met Sport require consent from parents / guardians for the participants to have photos taken to be used in the marketing and photography of our junior sport camps.
Please ensure that you have completed your preferences in our registration form.
Where children aren’t allowed photos, our staff will allocate the participant a no consent wrist band.
No Food or drink is supplied within the Cardiff Met Junior Sport Camps.
There are drinks and snack machines on site at Cardiff Met (but are not controlled by the University).
There will be facilities available for children to store their packed lunch.
All attendees are required to wear appropriate clothing and footwear whilst attending any Cardiff Met Junior Sports Camps.
Please be prepared for all weather conditions, especially if your child is attending a camp which will use outdoor facilities.
Items such as a waterproof jacket, spare socks, sun cream, sun hat are important to consider.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport/school-sport-initiatives:
Cardiff Met Sport has established strong links with primary and secondary schools in Cardiff and welcomes many of these schools and others from outside the area for their school sports day.
Additionally, we provide local schools with their school swimming programme and offer all secondary schools the opportunity to supplement their ‘A Level’ and ‘GCSE’ Sport and PE courses with a view to giving practical experience of both field and lab based fitness testing.
Have you chosen a date but are concerned about the weather?
Do you have all the equipment you need to make sure it runs smoothly?
Well, maybe we can help.
The National Indoor Athletics Centre is an ideal venue with a 4 lane 200m track, sprint straight, throwing areas and competition areas for all the jumps, and to make it really professional we have an excellent PA system.
We offer either a morning session 9am-12midday or an afternoon session 12.30pm-3.30pm.
We can also accommodate a full day booking.
To help schools fulfil their swimming requirements we offer exclusive use of our indoor swimming pool.
We offer:
Cardiff Met Sports Facilities have attained sponsorship to support our expanding junior programmes.
This has enabled us to expand the opportunity for children to experience some of our courses by providing coaches to take a lesson or use a break time slot to promote some of our sport courses including athletics, cricket, dance, gymnastics, netball, rugby, football and squash.
Schools can arrange an outreach visit during term times throughout the year.
If you would like to take part in any of the above or would like any further information, ​please email ​ metcommunity@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/health-and-fitness:
Met Active offers a range of diff​erent programmes for all abilities.
Our fantastic membership gives you access to the excellent facilities and programmes on offer here at Cardiff Met.
Based on both the Cyncoed and Llandaff campuses, we aim to have an impact on all students and staff at Cardiff Met as well as the community we serve.
​​​​The opening times of our Health and Fitness facilities can be found on the Cardiff Met Sport App .
Please note that facility opening times may vary due to special events.
Not a member yet?
Join us online .
We offer a range of health and fitness classes.
Learn more about our health and fitness class programme.​
Our highly qualified and experienced fitness professionals provide a range of training expertise to help you achieve your health and fitness goals.
Use our facilities on a casual basis.
Prices are available on the Cardiff Met Sport App.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/health-and-fitness/health-and-fitness-services:
The Met Active Team at Cardiff Met are highly qualified and experienced fitness professionals who can provide clients with a range of training expertise to achieve your health and fitness goals.
Bookings can be made on the Cardiff Met Sport App or you can book online .
See below for our training programme packages.​
We are now offering Personal training sessions and programmes.
These sessions are tailored to your needs, equipment and training environment.
To book a free consultation to see how we can help you achieve your health and fitness goals, please email: metactive@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
We will gather data through consultations and pre-training questionnaires to make an informed decision on producing your individualised training programme to maximise adherence and consistency in order to achieve your goal.
All training programmes are produced within 7 working days of the initial consultation and come with supervised training sessions by one of our qualified and experienced fitness professionals.​
Before using the fitness centres on the Cyncoed and Llandaff campuses, you will need to book an induction.
Inductions take approximately 20 minutes, depending on experience, and are free of charge.​​​​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/health-and-fitness/health-and-fitness-classes:
Classes are open to members and non-members, and can be booked online or through the Cardiff Met Sport App ​.
Class timetables can also be found on the Cardiff Met Sport App and online.​
For further information, please telephone 029 2041 6743 (Cyncoed Fitness Centre) or 029 2041 6779 (Llandaff Fitness Centre).
Alternatively,​ email metactive@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
This class aims to develop a strong core, improve stability and coordination, and enhance overall functional fitness, making it beneficial for individuals of all fitness levels and ages.
An indoor cycling workout in sequence with motivating music.
Members can burn up to 620 calories per workout through a training session that will allow them to get fit fast.
This class will provide basic cycling movements, standing up, sitting down, changing speed, and changing hand position.
A great way to way to build up a sense of your own personal achievement that is set at your own pace.
This session is a running based session that alternates between periods of high-intensity exercise and periods of lower-intensity recovery.
The goals of these sessions are to improve aerobic and anaerobic energy systems and to be able to exercise for longer and at more intense levels.
Workout's can include Intervals, Hills, Track/Treadmill sessions and more.
Join our Ladies Only Circuits and empower yourself through strength training in a supportive, female-focused environment.
This class is designed to build muscle, increase confidence, and enhance overall fitness through a variety of weightlifting exercises.
Our instructors provide guidance on proper form, techniques, and personalised progressions tailored to your fitness level.
This is a popular fitness class designed to target and tone three specific areas of the body: the legs, buttocks (bums), and abdominal muscles (tums).
It is a comprehensive workout that focuses on strength training and conditioning exercises to help sculpt and strengthen these key areas.
The class is designed for all fitness levels and abilities – from beginner to advanced.
This class offers a comprehensive workout that targets the entire body, enhances core strength, improves flexibility, and promotes mind-body connection.
Pilates exercises often focus on the core muscles, including the abdomen, lower back, hips, and glutes.
They are suitable for individuals of all fitness levels and can be adapted to meet individual needs and goals.
These classes are suitable for all levels of abilities and combine specific postural positions, breathing techniques and mindfulness to encourage release and relaxation in the body and mind.
These sessions use exercises that focus on strength, flexibility and breathing which is sure to boost physical and mental wellbeing.
This full-body workout focuses on building muscle, increasing endurance, and enhancing overall fitness through barbell exercises.
Suitable for all levels, the class includes a dynamic warm-up, compound movements like squats, deadlifts, presses, and rows, and a thorough cool-down.
This group exercise session specifically designed for individuals who are new to strength training or have limited experience with weightlifting.
The primary focus of this class is to introduce basic strength exercises and provide a supportive and motivating environment.
This no-equipment workout builds muscle, increases endurance, and enhances overall fitness using exercises like push-ups, squats, lunges, and planks.
Perfect for all levels, our instructors guide you through proper form and offer personalised modifications.
The primary focus of boot camp fitness class is to improve overall fitness levels, burn calories, build strength, increase endurance, and improve cardiovascular health.
Participants can expect to sweat, challenge themselves, and experience a full-body workout in a supportive and energising group environment.
Bootcamps can be indoors and outdoors and use a variety of equipment such as kettlebells, medicine balls, power bags and battling ropes.
This class is a specially designed workout session that caters to the fitness needs of the entire family.
It focuses on creating a fun and engaging environment where family members can exercise together, bond, and support each other in their fitness journey.
This is a type of workout that focuses on improving overall strength, endurance, flexibility, and mobility through exercises that mimic real-life movements.
It is designed to enhance your ability to perform everyday tasks efficiently and with reduced risk of injury.
The class atmosphere is supportive and inclusive, fostering a sense of community among participants.
A high-intensity workout that combines functional strength training with endurance exercises.
This class includes a variety of stations such as rowing, running, sled pushes, and bodyweight movements.
Push your limits, build strength, and increase endurance in a supportive and motivating environment.
Enhance your flexibility and improve your movement with our Mobility class!
This session focuses on exercises and stretches designed to increase your range of motion, reduce muscle stiffness, and prevent injuries.
Suitable for all fitness levels.
Dive into personalised fitness with our exclusive Personal Training taster session!
This introductory experience offers a glimpse into the world of one-on-one training tailored specifically to your goals and needs.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/sport-app:
The Cardiff Met Sport App is our free mobile app for students, staff, and the community.
Alternatively, you can search for 'Cardiff Met Sport' in the App Store or Google Play.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about:
At Cardiff Metropolitan University, we are committed to making the world a better place through teaching and learning, research and innovation, and working with communities locally and internationally.
A leading modern university with a distinctive offer across a wide range of creative, sports, health, education, technology, social and life sciences, and business disciplines, we draw our inspiration from over 150 years of commitment to education as a force for good in the Cardiff Capital Region and beyond.
We move forward as a vibrant learning and research community with a focus on student success.
Our strategic ambitions and cross-cutting missions.
Learn about the University structure, governance and compliance.
Find everything you need to know about graduation ceremonies, dates, and event details.
Discover our approach to Quality Assurance and enhancement of the learning experience.
Key policies and regulations governing the University.
Find out key academic calendar dates for students and staff.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/strategy:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is an ambitious and progressive institution, a leading modern university with a distinctive profile for teaching, learning, research and innovation.
Our students and staff work alongside our partners to lead the way in making a positive difference to Wales and the wider world, contributing to a fairer and greener economy that benefits all.
Following the appointment of a new President and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Rachael Langford, in January 2024, the University has refreshed its Strategy 2030.
The vision and missions set out in this refreshed Strategy put an even stronger focus on enhancing the student experience, maximising inclusivity, increasing research impact, fostering innovation, and deepening community engagement.
We will deliver an outstanding student experience, widening access and inclusion by extending learning opportunities beyond our traditional undergraduate and postgraduate offers through short courses, degree apprenticeships and micro-credentials, including through the medium of Welsh and via transnational education.
We will design our learning and teaching experiences, including learning spaces, to develop a sense of belonging that supports learners to reach their academic potential and maximise their graduate outcomes.
We will enhance our research and innovation profile through a strengthened research environment and improved quality, intensity, reach and impact in our research and innovation outputs.
We will work within Wales and the UK to support initiatives that benefit social, economic, physical and mental wellbeing, contributing to a fairer and greener economy that benefits all.
We will shape our high-quality, strategic, off-campus transnational educational partnerships to extend our impact, reach and reputation, and to support the development of skills and capacity overseas and contribute to the wellbeing of individuals, economies and societies globally.
We will proactively support our international on-campus students to increase success, improving retention, engagement and progression, and promote the benefits of engaging as graduate members of active global alumni networks.
We will extend our civic mission activity to enrich economic, social, environmental and cultural wellbeing.
Through partnerships and collaboration, we will support communities, businesses and industries to prosper by expanding access to our facilities, talents and resources.
The Strategy 2030 Refresh also outlines four cross-cutting missions, enabling a joined-up approach to multi-dimensional challenges that will ensure that diverse perspectives and capabilities are brought together to achieve our shared strategic ambitions.
They are:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity:
Cardiff Metropolitan University aims to be a place where all members of our community feel welcome and included.
We are committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all, giving every individual the chance to achieve their potential, free from prejudice and discrimination.
We will use our diverse backgrounds to enhance professional knowledge, bring challenge and new perspectives to what we do on campus.
This will help us build capability and support our students and staff.
Organisations that embrace equality, diversity and inclusion deliver better results, more motivated staff, increased recognition from its partner organisations and greater innovation.
Through our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion we will continue to promote and facilitate the use of Welsh Language by supporting employees, students and Welsh speaking communities.​
For more information about equality and diversity at Cardiff Metropolitan University, please contact equality@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Cardiff Metropolitan University is a values-driven organisation where a safe, supportive, and inclusive working and learning environment is essential to ensuring students and staff achieve their full potential.
The University does not permit the use of Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs) in relation to staff or student cases involving sexual or gender-based violence, threats of violence, harassment, abuse, or abuse and harassment cases more broadly defined.
This firm policy position reflects best practice across the higher education sector and is reflected in the recommendations of the Universities UK (UUK) Guidance on Staff Student Sexual Misconduct which is the outcome of a UUK Advisory Group chaired by Professor Cara Aitchison, Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff Metropolitan University.
This Group has been developing Guidance for addressing staff student sexual misconduct within the higher education sector and the Guidance will be launched in the early part of 2022.
This position is reflected in the University's Professional Code of Conduct adopted in 2021 and aligns with the UUK Guidance on Sexual Misconduct and with guidance from ACAS and the EHRC.
It also supports the pledge to end the use of non-disclosure agreements and launched by the Minister for Universities in England in January 2022 and which is backed by the NUS, campaign groups and MPs and already adopted by some universities in England.
The University is committed to UUK's wider Changing the Culture programme of work and to the activist principles of 'Can't Buy My Silence'.
Specifically in relation to sexual misconduct, Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/welsh-language-unit:
The Welsh Language Unit leads the development of Cardiff Met’s Welsh language services and provision.
This includes:
For more information, please send a message to unedgymraeg@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/alumni:
As part of our global alumni community, you’ll have access to exclusive benefits, career support, networking events, and lifelong connections.
Whether you want to stay in touch, celebrate achievements, or give back, we’re here to support you at every stage of your journey.
At Cardiff Met, we keep you connected to the University community long after graduation.
Whether through events, alumni networks, or career support, we’re here to support your journey and provide professional networking opportunities.
Access exclusive discounts, career support, and university resources.
Get CV advice, interview tips, and help with your job search.
Your chance to inspire and inform future students.
Discover how the survey works.
Ensure you receive updates about Cardiff Met’s latest alumni news, events, and opportunities.
Find out how we can support you to plan a reunion and grow the alumni network.
Stay connected and find career resources for new graduates.
Join our thriving alumni community , attend events, and make the most of exclusive benefits.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/graduation:
Graduation is a celebration to share with friends, family and loved ones.
A culmination of hard work in achieving your degree.
Registration for the 20th & 21st November 2025 Graduation Ceremonies takes place from 1st September to 3rd October 2025 .
Guidance for graduating students
November Graduation Ceremonies will take place on 20-21 November 2025.
Please read our expected behaviour guide.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/visit-us:
We would like to extend a warm welcome to all visitors to Cardiff Metropolitan University.
As part of our Sustainable Travel Plan, we encourage all visitors, students, and staff to travel to the University by walking, cycling, public transport, or by car sharing.
For information on how to reach Cardiff Metropolitan University either by public transport or by car, please see our individual campus web pages:
Plas Gwyn Residential Cam​pus
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to supporting sustainable travel, in order to reduce our impact on the environment, improve the health and well-being of our students and staff, and play our part as a responsible member of the local community.
Our Travel Plan provides a comprehensive framework to continually review and improve University travel practices, and is an essential element of the University's corporate values.
Our successful approach to travel planning was recognised with a Gold Level Welsh Travel Planning Award in 2011.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/term-dates:
Academic Year 2024/2025
Academic Year 2025/2026
Academic Year 2026/2027

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/contact-us:
​General enquiries telephone: +44 (0)29 2041 6070
We also welcome calls in Welsh.
Corresponding in Welsh will not lead to any delay.
​Admissions: askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Press enquiries: press@cardiffmet.ac.uk (including expert requests and out of hours)
Tel: +44 (0)29 2020 5898 Email: csad@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Cardiff Metropolitan University, Cyncoed Campus, Cyncoed Road, Cardiff, CF23 6XD
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6771 Option 4 Email: CSESPLTSE@Cardiffmet.ac.uk
Cardiff Metropolitan University, Llandaff Campus, Cardiff, CF5 2YB
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6425 Fax: +44 (0)29 2041 6940 Email: csm@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6771 - Option 4 Email: CSSHSLTSE@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)29 2020 5906 Email: CSSHSLTSE@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 7191
Cyncoed Campus A Block Main Building Cyncoed Road Cardiff CF23 6XD
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6188/6189 Fax: +44 (0)29 2041 6968 email: accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Cardiff Metropolitan University Western Avenue Cardiff, CF5 2YB
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6015 For queries relating to award documents, or verification of student awards, please see our webpage: Transcripts | Cardiff Metropolitan University
Western Avenue Llandaff Campus Cardiff CF5 2YB​
Admissions: +44​(0)29 2041 6010 / askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk
School Liaisons & Open Days: opendays@cardiffmet.ac.uk and schoolsandcolleges@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Corporate Design Team: corporatedesignteam@cardiffmet.ac.uk​
Widening Access: wideningaccess@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Events: corporateevents@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Media / PR enquiries: press@cardiffmet.ac.uk ​ / +44 (0)29 2041 6042
Cardiff Metropolitan University Llandaff Campus Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB
Email: alumni@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Enrolment Help: Enrolment Help Form
Head of International Office Cardiff Metropolitan University, PO Box 377 Western Avenue Cardiff, CF5 2SG
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6045 Fax: +44 (0)29 2041 6928 Email: international@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Cardiff Metropolitan University, Western Avenue Cardiff, CF5 2YB
Tel: +44 (0)20 2041 6747 Email: researchadmin@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)20 2041 6747 Email: business@cardiffmet.ac.uk​​
The Sports Facilities Manager Cardiff Metropolitan University, Cyncoed Road Cardiff, CF23 6XD
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6777 Email: sport@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6170 Email: studentservices@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Central Union Offices Cardiff Metropolitan University, Cync​oed Road Cardiff, CF23 6XD
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6190 Fax: +44 (0)29 2076 5569 Email: studentunion@cardiffmet.ac.uk Website: http://www.cardiffmetsu.co.uk/
Llandaff Campus Cardiff Metropolitan University, Llandaff Campus, Western Aven​ue, Cardiff, CF5 2YB
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6138 Main switchboard: +44 (0​)29 2041 6070
Tel: +44 (0)29 2041 6155
For prospectus requests please register online at www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/prospectus .​
If you need to contact us in relation to an application please contact us on +44 (0)29 2041 6010 or email us at askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk
For all international student enquiries, including how to apply, please contact our International Office on +44 (0)29 2041 6045 or email us at International@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Click on the following link for requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act and the Data Protection Act or email freedomofinfo@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
For all non-academic enquiries, please contact the i-zone.
Or visit the i-zone:
Monday 9.00am - 5.00pm Tuesday 9.00am - 5.00pm Wednesday 11.00am - 5.00pm Thursday 9.00am - 5.00pm Friday 9.00am - 4.30pm
www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/complaints​​​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance:
Cardiff Metropolitan's structure and governance enable us to fulfil our strategic objectives and ensure we are well managed and accountable to our stakeholders.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/policies:
Welcome to the Cardiff Metropolitan Policy Hub where you will find all University policy documents sorted by theme:
Policies provide a statement of principles which indicate how the University will act in a particular area of its operation.
They provide direction and guidance, establish key principles and responsibilities, and set out fundamental requirements.
More detailed procedures and guidance which define how a policy is implemented in practice are generally available by contacting the relevant department.
Academic regulations and associated policies and procedures are available as part of the Academic Handbook .
The Handbook includes some of the following important policy documents:
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 as detailed in the University Website Accessibility Statement .
Some of the policy documents available on this site may not meet accessibility standards.
As we review and update these documents, they will meet accessibility standards.
To request any policy documents in alternative formats, please email policies@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/academic-standards-and-quality:
The Quality Enhancement Directorate is at the heart of Cardiff Met, working in partnership with colleagues in the Schools and Professional Services to make a positive contribution to the experiences of staff and students at the University.
Spanning the Quality Assurance provision and the enhancement and development of Teaching and Learning, the Directorate plays a unique and significant part in shaping policy and progress in line with our University’s Strategic Plans.
We deliver an integrated, collaborative approach to working – with teams of qualified, professional agile practitioners.
Streamlined processes, with intelligent use of data, a proportionate and risk-based approach to quality assessment and the opportunity to embed pedagogic and innovative programme design enable the University to focus on student outcomes and student success.
To find out more about our work, please use the links on the left-hand side.
To get in ​touch, please email: ​ qed@cardiffmet.ac.uk ​​​​​ (for enquiries relating to Moodle, please email learningdevelopment@cardiffmet.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/partnerships:
In keeping with its missions, Cardiff Metropolitan University has sought to expand its role in partnership activities, in Wales, elsewhere in the UK and internationally.
The University takes various factors into consideration when deciding on the type of arrangement for academic programmes offered in collaboration, often depending on the in-house expertise.
The main types of collaboration for delivery of Cardiff Metropolitan University degrees, as defined by the Academic Handbook .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/staff:
Showing 1 - 12 of 490 results
Cardiff School of Management
Cardiff School of Technologies
Cardiff School of Education & Social Policy
Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news:
Showing 1 - 10                    of 289 results

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy:
Llywodraethiant a Chydymffurfiaeth
Polisïau
Ymunwch â ni ym mis Medi.
Dewch o hyd i'n hystod eang o gyrsiau israddedig, ôl-raddedig, ac ymchwil.
P'un a ydych yn cychwyn ar eich taith astudio, yn datblygu'ch gyrfa, neu'n archwilio cyfleoedd newydd.
Ymuno â ni ym mis Medi?
Ni allwn aros i gwrdd â chi.
Ewch i’n tudalennau myfyrwyr newydd am bopeth sydd angen i chi ei wybod i gychwyn.
Popeth sydd angen i chi wybod o lety i yrfaoedd a chyfleodd i astudio tramor.
Hefyd clywch gan fyfyrwyr go iawn yn ein podlediad ‘Help!
I'm going to Uni‘.
Dewch o hyd i gyfleusterau rhagorol, hyfforddi arbenigol a chymuned chwaraeon angerddol.
O chwaraeon a ffitrwydd hamddenol i dimau BUCS a rhaglenni perfformiad.
Mae ein hymchwil yn cael effaith gadarnhaol ar y byd o'n cwmpas.
Archwiliwch brosiectau amlddisgyblaethol sy'n mynd i'r afael â heriau'r byd go iawn ar gyfer dyfodol gwell.
Dyma'r lle penodau newydd, darganfyddiad a syniadau mawr; o wynebau newydd yn dod yn hen ffrindiau; lle o uchelgeisiau mawr, cromliniau dysgu a meddwl yn fawr.
Dyma eich Prifddinas chi.
Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd, Campws Llandaf, Rhodfa’r Gorllewin, Caerdydd, CF5 2YB

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/clearing:
Call: 0300 330 0755
Accommodation available at City Centre Locations - Find out more and apply here
Search course vacancies and find your place at Cardiff Met this September.
Our dedicated accommodation team are on hand to help you apply for a place in our halls of residence or secure a place in private accommodation.
Come to a Clearing Campus Tour on 16 August and 20 August, or sign up to one of our webinars.
£200 Clearing bursaries available.
Terms apply.
Find out more .
Phoebe came to Cardiff Met through Clearing after her original plans changed.
She hadn’t planned to come to Cardiff but quickly fell in love with the city and made connections through cheerleading and her computer security course.
Amanda applied to Cardiff Met through Clearing.
Initially overwhelmed, she reflects on navigating Clearing as an international student and how her journey led to falling in love with Cardiff and university life.
"Applying through Clearing was straightforward and the staff were really friendly.
I got in touch with the university admissions team and explained my situation.
They quickly responded with an offer and supported me with completing the necessary forms to secure my place and accommodation.
Looking back at it now, Cardiff Met was the best choice for me."
Kieron Addis-Mirfield International Hotel & Hospitality Management - BA (Hons)
"For anyone who, like me, hadn’t decided on university early my advice is simple: apply.
Whether you join through Clearing or as a first-choice student, your experience at Cardiff Met will be just as enriching and rewarding."
Heather Blackmore Business & Management - BA (Hons)

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/clearing-student-highlights-how-spontaneous-application-to-university-was-a-right-place-right-time-moment.php:
A mature student who was inspired to apply to university through Clearing has explained how the decision to study again was an opportunity to make a lifestyle change, gain independence and step out of her comfort zone.
Atlanta Paraskeva, now 24, from Gloucestershire, was aged 21 and on holiday in Copenhagen when she made a last-minute application to Cardiff Metropolitan University’s BA (Hons) Textile Design degree through Clearing - after rediscovering a love for art during a trip to the city.
Potential students can apply for courses through Clearing during a specific timeframe each year (5 July – 20 October 2025) if they receive higher or lower grades than expected, if they’ve changed their mind on their current course or if they missed the UCAS application date.
Atlanta said: “When I left college at 18, I didn’t really have a clue what I wanted to do next.
All my friends were going straight to university, so I decided to do a list of pros and cons and realised that university wasn’t for me at that time.
“I had volunteered and worked with children while growing up, so when I spotted a job as an apprentice early years practitioner, I decided to go for that instead.”
After qualifying in the childcare profession, Atlanta worked at a nursery throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.
She is now pleased she made the decision to wait and go to university a few years later so her university experience wasn’t “in the midst of lockdown.”
Joining the childcare profession and working throughout the pandemic meant it was a very different experience with all of the restrictions in place,” Atlanta continues: “It wasn’t what childcare could be like and tainted the experience for me.
With such long hours, I felt like I was working all the time - I realised this wasn’t the life I wanted at such a young age.”
Commenting on the decision to apply to Cardiff Met through Clearing during a holiday with her mum in 2021, Atlanta said: “I had always loved making things and did a foundation course in art after sitting my A-Levels.
But it was only during a trip to Copenhagen and seeing other people who loved art and hearing their experiences first-hand that I really found my passion again.
“Going to university has been more about becoming independent rather than just getting a job or a career for me.
I looked at other universities but only applied to Cardiff Met as it felt like the right fit.”
Atlanta has just graduated with a first-class degree in BA (Hons) Textile Design.
With a love for pattern design, she now plans to start looking for print based jobs in London or Manchester.
Lisa Bowen, Head of Admissions at Cardiff Metropolitan University, said: “Coming to university after time out from studying or opting for a career change is a big decision to make, but we always remind students that they have options.
It’s far better to explore a new path than to stay on one that doesn’t feel right.
University is a once-in-a -lifetime experience - and there’s always room for change.”
Atlanta added: “I have really loved the course at Cardiff Met, there was a lot of freedom and support and the opportunity to experience all areas of design.
I have also made some great friends.
“Going to university has allowed me to throw all my worries to the wayside.
Thoughts such as, ‘Am I good enough?’ or ‘I’m not an artist’ and pushed me out of my comfort zone.
You never know what the future holds – so I think you just have to be spontaneous with stuff in life.”
Further advice on Clearing and how to apply is available on the Cardiff Metropolitan University website.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/toxic-masculinity-academic-expert-comment.php:
Following the recent success of the Netflix drama, Adolescence , Masculinities Scholar and Senior Lecturer at Cardiff Metropolitan University, Dr Ashley Morgan discusses masculine toxicity.
Ashley said: “The rise of the ‘manosphere’ in the 2020s marked a significant cultural shift.
What began as fringe online forums has evolved into a widespread network of influencers, podcasts and social media personalities promoting hyper-masculine ideals, often under the guise of self-improvement or so-called ‘male empowerment’.
“As these narratives gain traction among impressionable young audiences, particularly boys and adolescents, the lines between confidence and aggression, mentorship and manipulation, have become increasingly blurred.
This raises urgent questions about the impact of digital culture on male identity and emotional development.”
What is masculine toxicity?
Is it new?
What are the signs?
Was Adolescence a catalyst for conversation and reminder of society’s responsibility to protect young boys from harmful online content?
For further information or to arrange an interview with Ashley Morgan , please contact press@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call 029 2041 6362.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-metropolitan-university-awarded-lawn-tennis-association-excellence-award-for-university-of-the-year-2025.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University has been awarded the Excellence Award in the University of the Year category at the 2025 Lawn Tennis Association Tennis Awards, recognising its outstanding contribution to university and community tennis.
The LTA is the national governing body of tennis in Great Britain, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man.
The LTA University Excellence Award is a national honour to recognise institutions delivering exceptional impact and innovation in university tennis.
Unlike the National LTA Awards, which recognises a single winner, the Excellence Awards allows the LTA judging panel to highlight programmes that have demonstrated outstanding achievements beyond the final shortlist.
The award was presented during the 2025 Lexus Eastbourne International, where representatives from Cardiff Met were invited for an on-court presentation and a Q&A session with Wimbledon mixed doubles finalist, Harriet Dart.
Cardiff Met Tennis has seen significant growth in recent years.
It is now recognised as Tennis Wales’ University of the Year for both 2024 and 2025 and is home to the only on-campus indoor tennis centre at a Welsh university.
The programme also hosts the National Performance Programme in partnership with Tennis Wales, supports over 100 children per week through a thriving junior coaching programme, and recently launched a new community tennis initiative based in Llandaff Fields as part of Tennis Wales’ Parks Strategy.
Billy Barclay, Head of Tennis at Cardiff Met, said: "We’re incredibly proud to receive this recognition from the LTA.
It reflects not just our competitive success, but the inclusive and wide-reaching tennis programme we’ve built, from developing performance athletes to making tennis more accessible across our local community.
The award is a testament to the dedication of our staff, students, and partners."
The University also regularly hosts professional tennis competitions in partnership with the UTR Pro Tour events and Amazon, helping raise the profile of tennis in Wales and the United Kingdom.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-mets-lisa-newton-named-bucs-coach-of-the-year-2025.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s Head Coach of Women’s Rugby, Lisa Newton, has been crowned British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) Coach of the Year after a season that redefined excellence within the University’s rugby programme.
Under Newton’s leadership, the Cardiff Met women’s team surged to victory in the BUCS Women’s Super Rugby Championship, securing the coveted title of national champions.
Her player-centred approach has also guided several squad members into the international arena, with several students winning caps for their country - underscoring her ability to nurture talent for the highest levels of the game.
Beyond match day triumphs, Newton is known for her commitment to athlete welfare and education.
She has been instrumental in advancing understanding of women’s health across Cardiff Met Sport, ensuring players receive holistic support both on and off the field.
Michael Peacock, Head of Performance Services at Cardiff Met, praised Newton’s impact, saying: “Lisa exemplifies what high-level coaching and leadership should look like; driven, empathetic, and deeply committed to the development of the whole athlete.
“She has demonstrated genuine humility and vulnerability in her development of both herself and the environment.
Her ability to lead with both excellence and care has been transformational for our women’s rugby programme and the wider performance environment at Cardiff Met.”
Lisa Newton’s influence now extends well beyond silverware - she is shaping a stronger, more empowered rugby community at Cardiff Metropolitan University, one that will continue to inspire future generations of athletes.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-dad-retrains-as-teacher-and-graduates-with-first-class-honours-after-wifes-death-.php:
A mature student has achieved first-class honours at Cardiff Metropolitan University and secured national recognition as an ’ Undergraduate of the Year ’ finalist.
Warren Abraham, 52, made the decision to retrain as a teacher following the death of his wife during the Covid-19 pandemic, having previously worked as a teaching assistant.
Determined to build a new future for himself and his young son, he enrolled at Cardiff Met and quickly stood out for his academic strength and resilience.
Throughout his time at Cardiff Met, Warren immersed himself in opportunities to develop professionally and connect with peers, including mentoring younger students.
As a mature student with real-world experience, he became a positive role model within Cardiff School of Education and Social Policy - earning the nickname of ‘Dad’ among his cohort.
He was also recognised in the highly competitive Undergraduate of the Year Awards, where he was shortlisted from over 5,000 applicants across the UK in the ‘career changer’ category.
The Undergraduate of the Year Awards is run by Target Jobs and rewards the best students in the UK.
The Career Changer award celebrates individuals who have made significant shifts in their careers and demonstrated excellence and determination in the face of challenges.
As part of the finalist event, Warren had the opportunity to meet other shortlisted students and public figures, including Jamie Laing of Made in Chelsea.
As part of his final year at the University, Warren won a first-class grade for his final project exploring the experiences of left-handed children in education.
Drawing from his own observations and personal interests, he investigated the often-overlooked challenges that left-handed pupils face in classroom environments predominantly designed for right-handed learners.
Warren credits his academic success to the support of his late wife's family, who have played an essential role in helping him raise his son.
Their help with childcare and tuition finance allowed him the time and peace of mind to focus on his studies.
Now preparing to enter the classroom as a fully qualified teacher, Warren is particularly drawn to working with upper Key Stage 2, year groups he finds both challenging and deeply rewarding.
He explained: “With older pupils - especially in Years 4, 5, and 6 - you really have to earn their engagement.
They’re beginning to form their own ideas and test boundaries, so building that connection takes effort, but that challenge is what makes it so rewarding.
I’m excited by the opportunity to make a lasting impact at such a crucial stage, just as they’re preparing for the big leap to secondary school.
It’s a pivotal time in their lives, and I want to be someone who helps them navigate it with confidence.”
Crossing the Wales Millennium Centre stage at Cardiff Met's graduation ceremony in July, Warren looks forward to being joined by his son and parents-in-law for the big day.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/anyone-can-do-it-mature-graduate-overcomes-late-dyslexia-diagnosis-and-personal-struggles-to-follow-healthcare-dream.php:
A mature student who was diagnosed with dyslexia during her degree and overcame a number of personal setbacks is graduating from Cardiff Metropolitan University this week.
Having worked as a hairdresser since leaving school at 16, Kelly Bichard, from Barry, went back to university in 2021 to study BSc (Hons) Human Nutrition and Dietetics at Cardiff Met after some personal health conditions inspired her to change career.
Kelly, now 44, said: “At the age of 30, I underwent a hysterectomy.
It was during this time and after visiting a private nutritionist to see what I could do to make my own lifestyle healthier, that I became really interested in working in healthcare.
I wanted to be able to give something back and make a difference.”
During her second year of university and at the age of 42, Kelly was diagnosed with dyslexia – a learning difficulty that can cause problems with reading, writing and spelling.
“My dyslexia was never picked up at school and I never noticed it as I managed to do well in my GCSEs – I think I found coping strategies on my own.
It wasn’t until I came to university that I noticed I was different to other people on my course.
I would procrastinate on coursework, try to start the work but be unable to get the words down on paper, and everything seemed to take me so much longer.
“It felt like a relief to be diagnosed with dyslexia.
I have had so much support from student services at Cardiff Met who arranged for an in-person test to place which took around two hours and consisted of a number of small tests which then confirmed my diagnoses.
The test was also funded by the University.
I now have some great coping strategies that I didn’t have before - there is so much support available.”
Kelly was also forced to take a break from the degree in her final year in 2024 and is graduating a year later than planned, due to ill health in her family affecting her anxiety, returning in 2025 to complete the final semester of her course.
Ali Birrane, Lecturer in Nutrition and Dietetics at Cardiff Metropolitan University, said: “Kelly has been a joy to teach.
Her hard work, dedication and persistence to complete the course, despite having multiple challenges, and obstacles to overcome throughout the degree are testament to her character.”
Kelly says she is now keen to find a hospital-based role and credits the three clinical placements during her degree for helping her to decide to secure a role in an acute environment.
Kelly added: “I have really enjoyed the course.
And the clinical placements have been a great way to experience a real case load in a hospital and get a good understanding of what life in the profession will be like once you graduate.
By the end of the clinical placements, you feel a real sense of responsibility.
“To other students thinking of going back to university, or who may be wondering if they can do it - I would say that you can.
Even though certain parts can be stressful, there is great support available, and anyone can do it if you really put you mind to it!”

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to cardiffmet.ac.uk developed by Cardiff Metropolitan University.
We have designed our website to allow all users regardless of technology or ability to access the information they need.
We are actively working to increase the accessibility and usability of our website based on the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 AA through the procurement of a new website platform.
Where we have identified issues with the current website's accessibility they are listed in this statement.
Some areas of our site have slightly different format and structure.
Each team and academic school are responsible for their content creation.
Where accessibility issues are identified we are working with our University Teams to provide support and training that will address these.
If you have a specific query about an area on our site, please contact us.
When using this site, you can:
AbilityNet's My Computer My Way provides advice and information on how to adapt your device to your personal preferences.
You can also use the information below to tailor how you view this website.
You can use the controls in your browser to change the size of the text or appearance of the display.
For example, in Chrome:
You can navigate through this website using the standard keys for your browser, for most these are:
For JAWS 10-12 landmark keyboard navigation in virtual mode is:
For NVDA 2011.2 the landmark keyboard combination in virtual buffer mode is:
Pages are not all responsive once magnified meaning you may need to scroll horizontally to view all the content on a page.
Language attributes for text in Welsh on our English language site and for English on our Welsh language site are not always present.
Accordion tabs used to show aspects of course information are not all easily navigable by keyboard using standard browser keys.
You may need to move through the accordions using arrow/up/down keys also.
Interactive 360° visualisations using the Matterport platform are only partially accessible using a keyboard.
This statement has been compiled on the basis of an audit of a sample of the pages on this site.
We are establishing a system for regular audits and review of this statement in line with the University's plan to replace the University website by September 2024 (exact dates to be confirmed).
This statement will be reviewed again by 31 August 2024 and every three months thereafter until the new website is launched.
Where issues are identified a prioritisation process will be undertaken to map our timeline for completing this.
If you need information on this website in a different format such as accessible PDF, large print, easy read or audio recording you can contact the department linked to the page you are viewing, contact us directly or make use of one of the in-built functions in your operating system:
If you would like to contact us directly regarding alternative formats or there are any accessibility issues not listed in this statement that you would like to make us aware of, please contact us via:
If you have requested an alternative format or have reported a problem with our website and are not happy with our response, please do get in touch to let us know and we will consider further information and support that we can provide for you.
Enforcement procedure - The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the 'accessibility regulations').
If you're not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 - AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
We recognise that the accessibility of our website is not perfect, and we are working hard to correct the identified issues that we can on our current platform.
We are in the process of procuring a new website and this will address those areas that cannot be amended on our current platform.
Although we are not claiming it would be a disproportionate burden to ever fix these issues, we are aware that the process of establishing a new website takes time.
Our anticipated date for implementation of the new site is September 2024.
The new website project is being prioritised because it will provide an inclusive, widely accessible digital environment for all users by design.
As such there may be some areas of non-accessibility of the current website that we are unable to address or give priority to at present as to do so would detract staff resource from the new website project.
This will ultimately offer the best solution for all users encountering accessibility difficulties.
Should you encounter any difficulties with accessing parts of our website please do contact us and we will support you to find the information you need and consider interim fixes on a case-by-case basis.
PDFs published before 09/2018 that are not essential to our services may not meet accessibility standards.
As we replace or remove these we will update and meet accessibility standards.
Where maps are shown on our website, we also provide contact details if you need help finding us.
Some aspects of our website include third party content.
We are working with our providers to meet accessibility standards and will publish this information on those pages and are making best endeavours to improve and replace non-accessible content.
SearchBOX is an independent directory of third-party suppliers' accessibility information.
This website has undergone audits conducted by AbilityNet and Alistair McNaught Consultancy as well as in-house testing.
This statement was prepared on 8th October 2020.
This website was last tested in November 2023 by Cardiff Metropolitan University.
It was last reviewed on April 30 2024​.
This page will be updated as further accessibility improvements are made.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/privacy-statement:
Cardiff Metropolitan University takes responsibility for protecting your privacy when you use our websites and services.
This statement describes why we collect information from you and how this information will be processed.
Please note: Non-Cardiff Metropolitan University websites are not covered by this statement.
However where relevant we have provided links to further information.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is the Data Controller and is committed to protecting the rights of individuals in line with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Anonymous information is collected automatically through the use of Cookies, and personal data is collected from web-based forms which you yourself have completed.
Cookies are files, sent by us to your computer or other access device, which can then be accessed when you visit our websites in the future, allowing us to record your browsing activity.
The law states that we can store cookies on your device if they are strictly necessary for the operation of this site.
For all other types of cookies we need your permission.
This site uses different types of cookies.
Some cookies are placed by third party services that appear on our pages.
You can at any time change or withdraw your consent from the Cookie Declaration on our website.
These Cookies are used by:
a) Google Analytics
Google Analytics is a statistical tool that analyses the usage of websites by collecting internet log and behavioural information in an anonymous form.
This information is then used to report on activity and provide an indication of website usage, which enables us to provide a better service on-site and inform our advertising off-site.
(See also 4.
Advertising – Google Ads)
Please follow this link for more information on Google Analytics and your privacy .
b) Authentication
In addition, Cookies are used to aid service and system access by allowing you to move around within our websites without having to re-authenticate.
Such Cookies are automatically removed from your computer when you close down your browser windows.
Personal data (such as your name, address, telephone number and email address) that you directly provide to us through the use of web-based forms will be stored securely; only be accessed by authorized Cardiff Metropolitan University personnel and will only be used for its intended purpose.
The University is lawful in processing this data because you have given consent (under Article 6 of the GDPR).
Third Parties and Personal Data
The University works with the following third parties in terms of personal data:
a) Campus Management
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses personal data collected and stored by Campus Management Corp UK on behalf of the University through the use of specific URLs relating to online forms for prospectus requests, open day and applicant day registrations.
For further information on how your data is stored by Campus Management, please read the ‘Admissions Privacy Policy’ at: https://www.campusmanagement.com/about-us/privacy/ .
b) Qualtrics
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses personal data collected and stored by Qualtrics on behalf of the University through the use of specific URLs relating to online forms for enquiries, event bookings and applications.
For further information on how your data is stored by Qualtrics, please visit: https://www.qualtrics.com/privacy-statement/ and pay attention to section 3: 'Data Collected by Customers'.
c) Uni Quest
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses personal data collected and stored by Uni Quest on behalf of the International Office at the University, through the use of specific URLs relating to online forms for International Student enquiries and applications.
For further information on how your data is collected and shared between the University and Uni Quest, please visit: http://www.uni-quest.co.uk/privacy-policy/
d) Live Chat Inc.
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses personal data collected and stored by Live Chat Inc.
on behalf of the University through the use of specific software for Live Online Chat to support applications and enquiries via the University website.
For further information on how your data is stored by Live Chat Inc, please visit: https://www.livechatinc.com/privacy-policy/ .
e) UniBuddy Ltd.
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses personal data collected and stored by UniBuddy on behalf of the University through the use of registration forms to facilitate conversations and peer-peer communication between prospective students and current student ambassadors and university staff.
For further information on how your data is stored by Unibuddy Ltd, please visit: https://unibuddy.com/terms-of-use/
f) DotDigital
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses personal data collected and stored by DotDigital on behalf of the University through the use of specific online forms for course enquiries, prospectus requests, open day and event registrations.
For further information on how your data is stored by DotDigital, please visit: https://dotdigital.com/terms/privacy-policy/
g) EventBrite
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses personal data collected and stored by EventBrite on behalf of the University through the use of specific online forms for event registrations.
For further information on how your data is stored by EventBrite, please visit: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/support/articles/en_US/Troubleshooting/eventbrite-privacy-policy?lg=en_GB
h) SimplyBook
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses personal data collected and stored by Simply Book on behalf of the University through the use of specific online forms for event registrations.
For further information on how your data is stored by Simply Book, please visit: https://simplybook.me/en/policy
i) Gecko Engage
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses personal data collected and stored by Gecko Engage on behalf of the University, through the use of specific online forms for enquiries, prospectus requests, open day and event registrations.
Cardiff Metropolitan University has a Data Protection Agreement in place with Gecko Engage.
For any further information required, please contact dataprotection@cardiffmet.ac.uk.
Unless required or permitted do so by law, we will not otherwise share, sell or distribute any of the information you provide us without your consent.
The University website currently collects and uses non-personal data from your browsing activity, for marketing/remarketing purposes across the channels below.
By accepting the terms of this Cookie and Privacy Statement, you are providing consent for us to serve you with such advertising.
a) Facebook and Instagram
The University website uses the 'Facebook Pixel' (a small block of code) in order to track which pages of the website you visit and what actions you may take.
This allows us to serve you with targeted and relevant advertising across the Facebook and Instagram platforms ("Custom Audiences from your Website") and send information about any actions you may take ("Event Data") to Facebook to track conversions ("Conversion Tracking").
Find out more about the Facebook Privacy Policy .
You can also manage your Facebook Ad preferences via your personal Facebook account.
b) Twitter
The University website uses the Twitter 'Universal Website Tag' (a small block of code) to track which pages of the website you visit, in order for us to utilise the 'Custom Audiences' and 'Conversion Tracking' features of Twitter Ads.
We then use this information to serve you with relevant and targeted adverts across the Twitter platform.
Find out more about the Twitter Privacy Policy .
c) LinkedIn
The University uses the LinkedIn 'Insight Tag' (a small block of code) to track which pages of the website you visit, in order for us to use the 'Website Demographics' and 'Matched Audiences' features of LinkedIn Campaign Manager.
We then use this information to serve you with relevant and targeted adverts across the LinkedIn platform.
Find out more about the LinkedIn Privacy Policy .
You can also manage your LinkedIn Ad preferences via your personal LinkedIn account.
d) Google Ads (Search, Display and YouTube)
The University uses the Google AdWords platform to serve relevant and targeted advertising to visitors of the University website.
Data (browsing data) collected via Google Analytics is used to create custom audience profiles.
These profiles are used to re-market and serve you with relevant adverts across the Google search and display networks including YouTube.
Any user actions from such advertising (e.g.
clicks or event registrations) is passed back to Google Analytics to allow the University to track conversions and measure the impact of any such advertising.
Find out more about the Google Privacy Policy .
You can also control how adverts are served to you across the Google network.
For information on how you can stop receiving such advertising across the above channels, please visit: http://www.aboutads.info/choices and http://www.youronlinechoices.eu/ .
If the University processes personal information about you, you have the right to invoke the following individual rights.
You have the right to:
Please visit the Information Commissioner Office's (ICO) website for further information in relation to your rights.
https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr/individual-rights/
If you have previously provided consent for the processing of your personal data, you also have the right to withdraw this consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness of the processing based on consent before its withdrawal.
If you wish to make a complaint about the way your personal data has been processed you can submit your concerns in writing to:
Information & Data Compliance Officer Secretariat Unit Cardiff Metropolitan University Llandaff Campus Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB
DataProtection@cardiffmet.ac.uk
If this process does not resolve your issue, or if you wish to take your complaint further, you have the right to contact the Information Commissioner.
The contact details are:
Information Commissioner’s Office Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 5AF
www.ico.org
Last Updated: June 2023

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/modern-slavery-statement:
At Cardiff Metropolitan University, we are committed to protecting and respecting human rights and have a zero-tolerance approach to slavery and human trafficking in all its forms.
This statement is issued by the Chair of the Board of Governors pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes Cardiff Metropolitan University’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.
In addition, this statement sets out the University’s undertakings in respect of the Welsh Government Code of Ethical Employment in Supply Chains: Code of practice to which the University has committed its support.
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 recognises that modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is a higher education corporation established under the Education Reform Act 1988 (as amended) and a registered charity.
The University structure and governance is managed through a Board of Governors which has responsibility for educational character and mission and oversight of activities.
It is managed by the President & Vice-Chancellor who is supported by a senior executive team and an Academic Board.
The University operates two teaching campuses, one residential campus and two business services sites within the City of Cardiff.
The academic structure comprises five Schools: Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences, Cardiff School of Management, Cardiff School of Art and Design, Cardiff School of Technologies and Cardiff School of Education and Social Policy.
The University has 1,545.2 Full Time Equivalent staff (excluding casual staff) and 11,281 students based in Cardiff with the student population drawn from over 125 nationalities.
Over 20,000 further students are placed with global partners.
The University has a commercial trading subsidiary company and an overseas operating subsidiary company.
The University’s turnover for the financial year covered by this report was £145M.
The University considers its supply chains to be worldwide, comprising those involved directly and indirectly in supplying the University with goods and services; those that relate to students studying both in Cardiff and with its academic partners around the world; and those that relate to its own employees whether in Cardiff, elsewhere in the UK or overseas.
It is recognised that it is possible for instances of modern slavery to occur in any supply chain, including those within our own operations.
The University’s priority is to maintain a scrutiny on those supply chains that are considered higher risk but will endeavour to investigate all its supply chains as and when reasonable opportunities arise.
The University’s modern slavery “champion” is the Chief Officer Resources and all concerns about modern slavery should be reported to the Chief Officer directly or via whistleblowing@cardiffmet.ac.uk
The University is committed to ensuring, where possible, that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in its supply chains or in any part of its own operations and that all those employed in the University’s activities are treated fairly and appropriately.
The University’s policies and procedures demonstrate its commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all its business relationships.
The University further recognises that effective policies and processes need to be clearly promoted, easily understood, accessible and consistent with good practice.
All staff policies are available on the University intranet; guidance for procurement suppliers is available on the University internet site; reference to Equality, Diversity and Ethical Supply Chains are noted within contractual agreements and links to relevant policies is made available to Transnational Education (‘TNE’) partners through the Collaborative Provision handbook, which is circulated to partners annually.
The University has had an Ethical Supply Chains Policy in place since 2011.
This policy is regularly reviewed and was updated again in 2024 to ensure it continues to reflect relevant good practice.
The University’s procurement activity also embraces the principles set out in the Welsh Government Ethical Employment in Supply Chains Code of Practice and the Wales procurement Policy Statement.
The University’s workplace policies and procedures are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they reflect the intent of the Welsh Government’s Ethical Employment Code of Practice, demonstrating the University’s commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all its business relationships, ensuring modern slavery and human trafficking does not occur within its UK and international workforces.
The latter are employed within the applicable laws of their location and in agreement with appointed representatives.
The University’s policies are available on the Policy Hub which is publicly available for visitors and suppliers.
Associated People Services policies and guidance are available on the University’s intranet.
We operate the following policies that describe our approach to the identification of modern slavery risks and steps to be taken to prevent slavery and human trafficking in its operations:
The University also has policies covering matters such as Anti Bribery, Anti Money Laundering, Counter Fraud and Corruption, and Ethical Investment and Sustainable Procurement.
In respect of its trans-national education partners, the University conducts a thorough due diligence assessment prior to the commencement of any TNE relationship and repeats this process periodically throughout all TNE partnerships.
Using resources such as the Human Freedom Index, this process highlights the importance of ethical employment practices which subsequently become a contractual obligation upon the partners.
The University has reviewed and updated the contracts used with overseas recruitment agents to ensure these agents conduct the activity they undertake on behalf of the University in an ethical and appropriate manner.
Training our agents is part of their induction process, contract management and as part of the University’s recruitment agents conference.
The University undertakes various clearances during its recruitment activity, including ‘right to work checks and its staff induction process includes guidance and training resources relating to equality and diversity, such as unconscious bias.
To identify and mitigate risk, modern slavery is addressed as a key part of all the procurement processes, as outlined below.
The University currently utilises the Higher Education Procurement Academy commodity risk profile to validate its own risk analysis, which has identified the following commodities as high risk of modern slavery:
The University is a member of the HEPCW and along with other universities continues to work collaboratively on all aspects of responsible procurement, which includes modern slavery and recognises that it is of greater benefit to do so.
We share a common range of suppliers across the sector and adopt a common approach to the sharing of tools, resources and outputs helping to reduce duplication.
Much of our impactable spend is channelled through collaborative agreements and all HE consortia and frameworks have adopted the Sustain Supply Chain Code of Conduct.
We access and utilise a range of other UK public sector consortia agreements, which provides extra confidence that responsible procurement has been fully embedded in all stages of the supply chain ensuring a more standardised approach across the public sector for the external supply chain.
The University continues to utilise the NETpositive Futures social value action planning tool that was first licenced by HEPCW in January 2021.
The tool supports suppliers in developing social action plans to support their business and helps them to understand the positive contribution their business can make.
The tool has enabled us to gather data on the social value actions that are being delivered by our suppliers.
A commitment to use the tool is a contractual requirement in all our tender awards.
Modern Slavery forms a core requirement of these action plans and some data on modern slavery from NETpositives is provided below.
Continual professional development on all aspects of social value, responsible procurement and modern slavery remains a key priority for the Procurement team members.
as and when new guidance and material is released.
During the period of this report the university has developed a new set of training materials, guidance documentation including videos for university staff on the intranet, highlighting the need for all staff to be aware of modern slavery and the many forms it could present.
To supplement this training material the existing course content that includes modern slavery awareness training for new staff was also amended and updated.
As part of University’s annual agent conference modern slavery guidance is constantly re-enforced by the International Student Recruitment Team and also re-in-forced during visits to agent offices.
In addition to the new training materials and guidance
Priorities for the forthcoming year
Approved by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board of Governors on 18 November 2024.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio:
Darganfyddwch ein hystod eang o gyrsiau israddedig gyda phrofiadau byd go iawn a chyfleusterau trawiadol.
Os ydych chi'n barod ar gyfer eich cam nesaf, rydyn ni'n cynnig meistr ôl-raddedig yn ogystal â Doethuriaethau, MRes, MPhil a PhD.
Darganfyddwch ein dewis eang o gyrsiau gradd israddedig sy’n canolbwyntio ar yrfa.
Porwch drwy ein dewis o raddau meistr ôl-raddedig.
Archwiliwch ein hystod o raddau ymchwil, gan gynnwys PhD, MPhil a Doethuriaethau.
Eisiau darganfod mwy am astudio gyda ni?
O Ddiwrnodau Agored i israddedigion a Diwrnodau Ymgeiswyr, i weminarau astudio ôl-raddedig a sesiynau ar-lein, gall mynychu un o’n digwyddiadau roi blas i chi o sut beth yw astudio ym Met Caerdydd.
Archwiliwch ein hystod o raglenni BA a TAR Cynradd a TAR Uwchradd.
Popeth sydd angen i chi ei wybod am y prosesau ymgeisio a pholisïau derbyn.
Darganfod mwy am astudio gyda ni fel myfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Eisiau gwybod mwy am astudio gyda ni?
Dewch i’n gweld yn un o’n Diwrnodau Agored.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-education-and-social-policy/cardiff-partnership-for-ite:
Working together with teachers, for teachers, as teachers, to inspire the future minds of Wales — the Cardiff Partnership collaborates with leading institutions to deliver high-quality, practical teacher education.
The Cardiff Partnership for Initial Teacher Education comprises Cardiff Metropolitan University and its associated partner schools, working in collaboration with University of Oxford, Cardiff University, Central South Consortium (CSC), Education Achievement Service (EAS), and City of Cardiff Council.
Together, the Cardiff Partnership collaborates to ensure that our student teachers not only achieve, but seek to surpass the professional standards for QTS through high-quality professional education that is rigorously practical and intellectually challenging.
In line with Welsh Government priorities and Cardiff Metropolitan University’s objectives, the Cardiff Partnership aims to be an equitable and welcoming place for all student teachers and staff involved in initial teacher education.
This involves being proactive in the education of different forms of racism ensuring that all stakeholders demonstrate a commitment to anti-racist practice and to the wellbeing of society as a whole.
Download the Cardiff Partnership for Initial Teacher Education Global Majority Recruitment and Retention Plan
This plan is a working document and will be updated and amended on an ongoing basis.
We are committed to the development of Welsh language skills of all student teachers.
With up to £15,000 available, find out more about the range of financial incentives to train to teach priority subjects.
An Education Workforce Council accredited provider of ITE in South East Wales.
Emma and Tom Talk Teaching is our podcast, presented by Cardiff Met lecturers Emma O'Dubhchair and Tom Breeze, who bring you deep discussions, in-depth interviews and reviews of the latest books and articles about education.
You can also listen to our ‘So you want to become a teacher’ episode to hear the inside track about what it’s like to study with us, and how to make sure you’re ready for the interview.
Come and see us at an Open Days.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-parents-and-guardians:
If you are supporting a student through their university application journey, register your details below and we’ll keep you informed about the range of events on offer to guide you through the process and help.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau:
Yn dangos 1 - 10                    o 222 canlyniad
Enw'r Cwrs
Lefel
Lleoliad
Ymchwil
Campws Cyncoed
Ôl-raddedig
Campws Llandaf, Campws Cyncoed
Israddedig

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-accounting-and-economics:
You can count on our multi-accredited and practically focused Accounting and Economics degree.
Our BA (Hons) Accounting and Economics degree at Cardiff Met focuses on real-world skills and critical thinking.
The course is professionally accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).
We are proud to be the first new university to adopt the new CORE Econ (Curriculum Open-Access Resources in Economics) and we work closely with industry, including the Government Economic Service, to ensure that your learning is in-line with industry needs.
Whether you have your sights set on a career at one of the ‘big four’ leading accounting firms (Deloitte, EY, KPMG or PwC), or as an accountant, economist or finance professional within public, not-for-profit or private organisations, our accounting degree will kick-start your journey to Chartered Accountant status with substantial exemptions available from ACCA, CIMA and ICAEW examinations.
We’ll provide you with a comprehensive introduction to all areas of accounting and economics to prepare you for further study at the final stages of professional accounting qualifications.
You’ll learn from our financial expert lecturers who are not only academic thinkers and active researchers, but professionals sharing their own industry experience.
Plus, the option of paid summer work placements or spending a year in industry can give you a competitive edge and enhance your learning in practice.
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales
This degree can be studied as a three-year full-time degree or a four-year degree that includes a year of foundational study.
Our foundation year is intended to prepare you for your subsequent years of studying, offering you the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence.
The foundation year will be relevant to:
Find out more about the foundation year .
Please note : You will need to apply using a specific UCAS code if you wish to undertake the 4 years including foundation.
In your first year, all six modules (120 credits) are compulsory and designed to give you a solid introduction to Accounting and Economics.
You will be introduced to financial and digital accounting and both microeconomics and macroeconomics, as well as being equipped with quantitative and academic skills to succeed in your studies and future career.
All modules are taught in English and there is provision for the Welsh language equivalent in a number of modules in Levels 4 and 5.
These are indicated below with an asterisk (*).
Compulsory modules (20 credits each)
In your second year, five modules (100 credits) are compulsory, and you select one optional module (20 credits).
You will advance your study of microeconomics and macroeconomics.
You will also build on your knowledge and skills within the world of Accounting and Economics and undertake an Experiential Work or Volunteering Opportunities module.
Select ONE Optional module (20 credits each)
Year in industry
You have the option to spend a year in industry on a work placement after successfully completing your second year of study.
We have a dedicated work placement team to support you in securing a placement.
A year-long placement can boost your career prospects and give you an advantage when applying for jobs after graduation.
In your third year, five modules (100 credits) are compulsory, and you select one optional module (20 credits).
You will advance your finance-related knowledge and skills to prepare for professional qualifications but also explore further important areas of economics.
Optional modules are delivered subject to demand and availability.
^ If you’re taking a year-long industry work placement between year two and three, you have the option to select ‘Industrial Work Experience’ as your optional module.
If not, select another optional module.
In most modules teaching consists of a series of short lectures each week, accompanied by two hours of seminars per week.
Seminars are practically based and are usually run as workshops where students have an opportunity to practise the material covered in the lectures.
All modules are fully supported by the university's VLE for a blended learning approach and students may also make appointments with module tutors and personal tutors at any mutually convenient time.
Students are encouraged to engage with extra-curricular activities including short courses in various computer applications and entrepreneurship.
The teaching team consists of enthusiastic professionals with both industry experience as qualified accountants and relevant research activity.
Coursework is generally of a very practical nature to reflect the skills and techniques required by a professional accountant.
Assessment for professionally accredited modules includes closed book examinations in order to satisfy exemption requirements.
There is a considerable demand from UK employers for accounting graduates and past experience suggests that a significant proportion of graduates will obtain graduate training places in finance sections of businesses, high street practices and the public sector.
The course is accredited by the main UK accounting bodies and you will be able to obtain exemptions from the ACCA, ICAEW and CIMA examinations.
This is therefore a demanding course, which combines academic content with the development of the knowledge and skills required to pass the accounting bodies' final examinations.
Economists are in demand in both the private and public sector.
They can be skilled managers, researchers, analysts and strategists.
Research shows that Economics students have higher average earnings than most other graduates, including those studying a general business degree.
Progression to postgraduate study within the Cardiff School of Management is also an option.
​The following requirements are based on typical offers relevant to entering year 1 of the degree.
If you do not meet these entry requirements, we also offer a Foundation Year which allows progression to Year 1 upon successful completion.​
Combinations of the above qualifications are accepted if they meet our minimum requirements.
If your qualifications aren’t listed, please contact Admissions or refer to the UCAS Course Search .
Further information on Overseas qualifications can be found here .
If you are a mature applicant, have relevant experience or RPL that you would like us to consider, please contact Admissions.
Further information on how to apply can be found here .
For general enquiries please contact the Admissions Team on 029 2041 6044 or email askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
For course specific enquiries, please contact the programme leader Judi Stockford:
Email: JStockford@cardiffmet.ac.uk
NL41 (3-year degree), NL4F (4-year degree including foundation year)
3 years full time.
4 years full time if undertaking foundation year.
4 years full time if undertaking year-long industry placement.
5 years full time if undertaking foundation year and year-long industry placement.
We endeavour to deliver courses as described and will not normally make changes to courses, such as course title, content, delivery, and teaching provision.
However, it may be necessary for the University to make changes in the course provision before or after enrolment.
It reserves the right to make variations to content or delivery methods, including discontinuation or merging courses if such action is considered necessary.
For the full information, please read our Terms and Conditions .
Practical Experience
Get hands-on with unlimited remote access to industry leading software to analyse real-world financial data and gain practical experience before you even graduate.
Optional Year in Industry
Industry Connections
Tap into our wide-ranging industry connections through expert-led guest lectures, field trips and even the opportunity to study abroad.
You will graduate with the practical experience, problem solving and digital skills to launch a successful career.
Our modern Cardiff School of Management building is designed to inspire future industry leaders while providing you with exceptional support.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-accounting-and-finance:
You can count on our multi-accredited and practically focused Accounting and Finance degree.
Our BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance degree at Cardiff Met is professionally accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).
Whether you have your sights set on a career at one of the ‘big four’ leading accounting firms (Deloitte, EY, KPMG or PwC), or as an accountant or finance professional within public, not-for-profit or private organisations, our accounting degree will kick-start your journey to Chartered Accountant status with substantial exemptions available from ACCA, CIMA and ICAEW examinations.
We’ll provide you with a comprehensive introduction to all areas of accounting to prepare you for further study at the final stages of professional accounting qualifications.
In your first year, all six modules (120 credits) are compulsory and designed to give you a solid introduction to Accounting and Finance.
You will be introduced to financial and digital accounting and learn about global financial services, as well as being equipped with quantitative and academic skills to succeed in your studies and future career.
All modules are taught in English and there is provision for the Welsh language equivalent in a number of modules in Levels 4, 5 and 6.
In your second year, five modules are compulsory (100 credits), and you select one optional module (20 credits).
You will build on your knowledge and skills within the world of Accounting and Finance and undertake an experiential work or volunteering opportunities module.
You will advance your finance-related knowledge and skills to prepare for professional qualifications.
You will develop the knowledge and skills expected of a finance manager responsible for managing the finance function of an organisation.
In most modules teaching consists of one lecture and one seminar per week.
Seminars are practically based and are usually run as workshops where students have an opportunity to practice the material covered in the lecture.
All modules are fully supported by the university’s VLE and students may also make an appointment with module tutors and personal tutors at any mutually convenient time.
There is a considerable demand from UK employers for accounting graduates and past experience suggests that a significant proportion of graduates will obtain graduate training places in 'the big four' (Deloitte, PwC, EY, KPMG), finance sections of businesses, high street practices and the public sector.
Students will engage with university experts in Employability alongside their core curriculum throughout their course of study and will be invited to attend regular workshops with the professional accounting bodies delivered specifically for students at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Many modules on the course are accredited by the main accounting bodies and you will be able to obtain exemptions from the ACCA, ICAEW and CIMA examinations.
If you are a mature applicant, have relevant experience or RPL that you would like us to consider, please contact Admissions.​
Email: jstockford@cardiffmet.ac.uk Tel: 029 2020 5638
NN43 (3-year degree), NN4F (4-year degree including foundation year)

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-accounting-and-finance:
The MSc Accounting and Finance programme is suitable for anyone wishing to acquire specialist knowledge within the realm of accountancy and finance, and who aspire to pursue a career in the financial sector, either as an analyst or accountant.
This programme offers a suite modules, core and optional, which will enable learners to choose some modules to suit their individual needs and interest.
This MSc is also suitable for individuals who aim to become professionally qualified accountants as it offers modules which are closely aligned to the Professional level syllabus of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) qualification.
By choosing a set combination of modules, learners can simultaneously cover key aspects of ACCA's Professional level syllabus.
All the Finance based Masters programmes within the School of Management have full access to the Financial Times on-line.
The programme comprises of a taught element, worth 140 credits and a final compulsory non-taught Dissertation worth 40 credits.
The MSc will be awarded on successful completion of the 180 credits.
The taught element of the programme is delivered over two semesters, where each taught module is worth 20 credits.
The taught modules to be completed are:
Compulsory Taught Modules:
Optional Taught Modules (choice of two)*
*Please note that optional modules run subject to demand and availability.
You will be taught by academically qualified and enthusiastic staff with research and consultancy experience and links to industry.
Your high quality learning experience comprises lectures and discussions supported by group work, presentations, statistical computer labs and case studies.
All modules are also supported by Moodle, the virtual learning environment.
There is a common shared spine within these programmes which overlaps with existing Masters level programmes within Cardiff School of Management.
Consequently students will, for some modules, be taught with students on the MBA and MSc Financial Management programmes.
The teaching team consider this a strength of the portfolio.
The professional world our successful graduates are aiming to enter are seeking students that are able to conduct useful research, think critically about that research and apply to complex problems – this ,inter alia, necessitates effective use of modern ICT and the ability to utilise knowledge effectively.
Particularly within this field graduates will be expected to show excellent quantitative skills.
These students will be assumed to process effective two-way communication skills and be comfortable and effective in self-managed and team environments.
The formative and summative assessments necessary to develop, hone and showcase these abilities are, of necessity many and varied and these programmes will expose the students to individual coursework, and presentations, group tasks, reflective logs, role-playing as well as traditional closed book examinations.
The demand for highly skilled and knowledgeable finance professionals is now more global than ever before.
No longer are London and New York the only homes for large multi-national international financial businesses and institutions.
These potential employers are now additionally located in the Middle and Far-East and a postgraduate student is almost as likely to find their first job in Dubai, Bahrain or Shanghai as in the traditional centres.
This demand has been instrumental in designing this challenging suite of programmes.
In order to maximise employability the programme learning outcomes are geared towards supplying students with the knowledge, skills and understanding that the finance industry requires.
The ‘Development of professional skills and employability’ module is designed to help you build your professional skills in a way that's different from a traditional work placement.
You'll learn how to make the most of resources for career development, create a standout CV, and ace interviews.
You’ll also explore how to use social media to boost your employability.
Through project-based learning focused on the finance industry, you'll gain insights into the job market, understand what employers are looking for, and develop skills that matter.
By the end, you'll feel more confident, professional, and ready to take on the financial job market.​
The School of Management has opportunities for successful graduates to apply for M.Phil./ PhD study within the School.
Applicants should meet one of the following:
In general terms graduates from non-financial disciplines will not normally have the pre-existing skills set to succeed on the programme BUT such students are welcome to apply and such applications will be viewed on an individual basis.
International Applicants Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an IELTS 6.0 standard or equivalent.
For full details about how to apply and English Language qualifications please visit the International pages on the website.
Selection Procedure Application form and if necessary an interview.
How to Apply Applications for this course should be made direct to the university via our self-service facility.
For further information please visit our How to Apply pages at www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/howtoapply .
If you are interested in using credit from another institution, or have obtained qualifications and/or experience to study for a course at Cardiff Met,  you can find further information on this as well as information on how to apply on the RPL page .
For course specific enquiries, please contact the programme leader, Dr Chang Liu: Email: cliu@cardiffmet.ac.uk
September and January intakes available
1 year full time.
2 years part time.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-accounting:
You can count on our multi-accredited and practically focused Accounting degree.
Our BA (Hons) Accounting degree at Cardiff Met is professionally accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).
In your first year, all six modules (120 credits) are compulsory and designed to give you a solid introduction to Accounting.
You will be introduced to financial and digital accounting and global financial services, as well as being equipped with quantitative and academic skills to succeed in your studies and future career.
All modules are taught in English and there is provision for the Welsh language equivalent in two modules in Level 4.
In your second year, all six modules (120 modules) are compulsory, and you will build on your knowledge and skills within the world of Accounting.
If not, select Forensic Accounting.
In most modules, teaching consists of a series of short lectures each week, accompanied by two hours of seminars per week.
All modules are fully supported by the University's VLE for a blended learning approach and students may also make appointments with module tutors and personal tutors at any mutually convenient time.
The teaching team consists of enthusiastic professionals with both industry experience as qualified accountants and relevant research activity.​
Assessment for professionally accredited modules includes closed book examinations in order to satisfy exemption requirements.
The course is fully accredited by the main accounting bodies and you will be able to obtain maximum exemptions from the ACCA, ICAEW and CIMA examinations.
For course specific enquiries, please contact the programme leader Judi Stockford: Email: jstockford@cardiffmet.ac.uk Tel: 029 2020 5638
N400 (3-year degree), N40F (4-year degree including foundation year)

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-advanced-computer-science:
This Master’s degree in Advanced Computer Science will provide you with the skills and knowledge to develop high quality computer-based systems and manage all aspects of their production and maintenance.
All over the world, the demand for advanced Computer Science graduates is on the rise.
Through a combination of practice-based learning and theoretical modules, you will gain the advanced abilities and competence required to progress in your career or undertake further study.
Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT , for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the requirements for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Candidates must hold a CEng accredited BEng/BSc (Hons) undergraduate first degree to fully meet the CEng registration educational requirements.
BCS - The Chartered Institute for IT
Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET)
Compulsory Modules:
Algorithm Design & Analysis (20 credits) In this module, the students will improve their analytical skills by designing and evaluating algorithms for a range of real-world applications.
Cloud & Edge Computing (20 credits) The aim of the module is to provide an understanding of Internet of Things (IoT) and edge infrastructure in terms of data communication, processing, and analysis generated from IoT devices.
Wireless Networks (20 credits) This module aims to provide detail understanding of wireless communication technologies, covering wireless LAN, adaptive protocols, cross-layer optimisation, coding, and error control.
Advanced Programming (20 credits) The aim of this module​ is to deepen students’ proficiency in object-oriented programming principles and practices, enabling them to employ advanced concepts and techniques in designing and developing sophisticated software solutions.
Research & Professional Practice (20 credits) The aim of this module is to equip the student with the skills, knowledge and techniques necessary to produce a dissertation with a research or technical focus.
Information Security (20 credits) This module aims to provide an insight into the implementation of data security in computer systems and to encourage students to appreciate the practical and theoretical management principles associated with information security.
Technology Dissertation (40 credits) The aim of the technology project is for the student to apply knowledge, skills and techniques developed during directed and independent study to solve a real-world technology related project.
The technology project may take the form of an in-depth research project or the development of a computer system.
Emerging Mobile Applications (20 credits) The aim of the module is to equip students with the knowledge and skills to design and develop mobile applications that leverage emerging technologies effectively.
To obtain an MSc degree, you must follow and successfully complete a total of 180 credits.
PgC (60 credits) and PgD (120 credits) may be awarded as standalone or exit awards.
Our academic staff lead engaging lectures, workshops, and lab sessions, fostering a dynamic learning environment that encourages innovation and critical thinking.
Your Programme Director provides further pastoral and academic support, guiding students through their studies and signposting to other services such as career development.
Additionally, our wider student support teams – including wellbeing services and technical staff – are on hand to offer comprehensive assistance, ensuring students have the resources and support needed to thrive.
Assessments take the form of individual or group coursework, research based assignments, practical assessments, presentations, reports, class tests and a dissertation/development project.
Skilled graduates in Computer Science are met with a wide range of career opportunities.
The Advanced Computer Science programme is career-focused and broad in scope, enabling you to enhance your existing skills to meet the increasing commercial demand for Computer Science graduates.
Relevance shall be determined by the Programme Director with reference to the applicant’s transcript, and, if required, via an interview.
Equivalence shall be determined by:
English Language Requirements: Applicants whose first language is not English should refer to English Language Requirements ​ to confirm the level & evidence of fluency required for entry to the programme.
Students with extant level 7 qualifications wishing to enter the course may apply on the basis of RPL for admission with Credit.
In such cases the regulations detailed in the Academic Handbook will apply and allows for a maximum RPL of 120 credits on a Master’s programme.
In this case the remaining 60 credits would consist of the research methods module and the dissertation.
The admissions process is controlled by Cardiff Metropolitan University’s centralised admissions team in consultation with the Programme Director.
All applications from International students will be subject to an initial assessment of academic qualifications, English Language proficiency and overall suitability for the programme by the International Admissions Teams.
However, the final decision remains the responsibility of the Programme Director.
How to Apply: Applications for this course should be made direct to the University via our self-service facility.
Tuition Fees and Financial Support: For up to date information on tuition fees and the financial support that may be available.
Please refer to www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/fees .
Part-time Fees: Charges are per Single Module unless specified: Undergraduate = 10 Credits; Postgraduate = 20 Credits
Generally we find most students will complete 60 credits per year for both Undergraduate and Postgraduate study; to obtain a true costing please clarify this by contacting the Programme Director directly.
For general enquiries, please contact the Student Recruitment Team on +44 (0)29 2041 6044 or email askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
For course specific enquiries, please contact the Programme Director, Dr Sheik Tahir Bakhsh: Email: SBakhsh@cardiffmet.ac.uk
September, January and May intakes available
3 years part time.
12-18 months full time, depending on start date.
Designed with employability in mind, the School of Technologies offers modern facilities which include a range of industry standard labs and equipment that enhance your practical learning.
Our exclusive social and study spaces provide the perfect setting to work, relax, and connect, allowing students to interact and build a strong community.
Our students have started a range of societies that you can join.
From rock climbing to gaming, Formula 1 and much more, there’s something for everyone.
Our network of student coaches become your mentors, and will support you on your journey at the School of Technologies.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-advanced-cyber-security:
This Master’s degree in Advanced Cyber Security will allow you to explore the technologies and practices designed to protect sensitive data, computers and networks from both intentional and accidental access, alterations and damage by diverse threat actors.​
Developed in close collaboration with industry and aligned with National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) recommendations and CyBok framework, the course will give you the advanced knowledge and practical experience you need to respond successfully to cyber security threats.
The content is structured into three main themes: offensive security, defensive security, and information security governance.
This will allow you to become a well-rounded cyber security expert, capable of applying industry-standard tools and techniques to develop secure systems and design frameworks to reduce risks.
You’ll learn to conduct penetration testing (ethical hacking) and vulnerability analysis, will explore forensics and applied cryptography concepts, and will get an in-depth understanding and ability to design policies and frameworks to identify and reduce risks and satisfy legal (e.g., GDPR) and compliance obligations (e.g., ISO27701).
The course modules are integrated with professional certification contents such as Cisco Networking (CCNA) and Cyber Security (CyberOps), Certified Ethical Hacking (CEH) and ISO27001 ISMS Auditing.
You will have the option to undertake these certifications alongside your studies at reduced or no additional cost.
You can also get involved in professional cyber security groups and industry-relevant challenges and competitions to test your skills and develop your abilities.
Cardiff Met is an Academic Partner of the Chartered Institute of Information Security (CIISec) .
This will provide you the opportunity to qualify as a Student Member of the CIISec and start your journey to Chartered Information Security professional status.
Chartered Institute of Information Security
The degree programme is comprised of 7 compulsory modules and a Dissertation project to develop your specific interests and expertise.
All taught modules are 20 credits, unless specified.
Information Security - Risks, Threat and Attacks (20 Credits) This module provides an insight into the implementation of data security in computer systems and aims to encourage students to appreciate the practical and theoretical management principles associated with information security.
Human Centred Security (20 credits) This module provides an insight into usable security, social & behavioural factors impacting security, security culture and awareness, as well as the impact of security controls on user behaviours.
Forensics (20 credits) This module explores computer forensics with specific focus on definitions, conceptual models, operating system and artifact analysis, main memory, application and cloud forensics.
Secure Systems and Software (20 credits) This module provides detailed insights into privacy and security of systems & software, and approaches for designing secure systems & software using traditional and emerging secure SDLCs.
Network Security (20 credits) This module explores Internet architecture, network protocols and vulnerabilities, network defence tools, wireless LAN, security, and Advanced network security topics including SDN, IoT.
Applied Cryptography (20 credits) This module covers in-depth topics such applied cryptographic schemes, symmetric and asymmetric cryptography, cryptographic security models, and standard and advanced protocols.
The module will be assessed through a written research proposal which can then be used as the basis for the dissertation.
Cyber Security Dissertation (40 credits) The aim of the technology project is for the student to apply knowledge, skills and techniques developed during directed and independent study to solve a real-world computer security related project.
The computer security project may take the form of an in-depth research project or the development of a computer security system.
In either case, the module enables the student to advance their knowledge and understanding of real-world development projects and research through independent learning and critical evaluation.
The assessment strategy for the programme varies to ensure the most appropriate method for each specific module and subject area.
Assessments take the form of individual or group coursework, research-based assignments, practical assessments, presentations, reports, class tests and a dissertation/development project.
Detailed, specific and timely feedback will be given to each students work according to the Cardiff Met guidelines.
The specialist knowledge you will acquire through the course will place you in a strong position to pursue a wide range of careers involving the analysis of risk, including computer incident analyst, cyber security analyst, information security consultant and managerial roles in industry.
The programme also gives you a range of computing skills that could be widely applied to any role within the fields of data science and computing.
You will be able to start careers in more technical roles such as ethical hacker or security incident handler, as well as management roles such as risk assessor, information security policy developer, data protection officer and compliance officer.
Students who are interested in further education can join research degrees such as MPhil/PhD/ProfDoc within the vibrant Cardiff Met research community.
Prior work experience in the related field can possibly compensate the Honours degree 2:2 requirement.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose first language is not English should refer to English Language Requirements ​ to confirm the level and evidence of fluency required for entry to the programme.
Selection for this course is through an application form and where necessary an interview.
Applications for this course should be made direct to the University via our self-service facility.
For up to date information on tuition fees and the financial support that may be available.
Charges are per Single Module unless specified: Undergraduate = 10 Credits; Postgraduate = 20 Credits
For general enquiries please contact the Student Recruitment Team on 029 2041 6044 or email askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
For course specific enquiries, please contact the Programme Director, Liqaa Nawaf: LLLNawaf@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Computer Security Lab
Our complete Cisco cyber security lab supports industry-standard networking, penetration testing, security testing, and IoT skill development.
Hear from international student Karen Dixon on what it’s like studying a Master’s in Advanced Cyber Security at Cardiff Met.
Expert Teaching Staff
Learn from expert teaching staff who are active researchers in areas like advanced cryptography, cybersecurity for IoT, AI in security, and blockchain security.
Through small group seminars and interactive lectures, you’ll gain exposure to the latest findings and methodologies in these fields.
Networking Opportunities
Events such as industry conferences, seminars, and hackathons are often part of the programme, giving you opportunities to meet and network with professionals and recruiters from top companies.
Industry Links
With UK wide, local and international companies such as ISC2, Cyber Wales, Coast Consultant Ltd, Charmwood Risk Management Ltd, Airbus and more.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/msc-advanced-practice-in-healthcare:
This programme also includes the following specialist pathways:
The aim of the MSc Advanced Practice in Healthcare programme is to develop autonomous reflective practitioners who are engaged in advanced practice within a range of clinical, organisational and professional settings.
The programme focuses on your needs as an individual learner within the context of healthcare with specific pathways for Allied Health Professionals.
It fosters Interprofessional Education in joint modules and encourages best practice and innovation within the four pillars of Research and Audit, Leadership and Management, Clinical Practice and Education in line with the Professional Framework for Enhanced, Advanced and Consultant clinical practice in Wales (HEIW 2023) .
The MSc Advanced Practice in Healthcare is a flexible part-time* programme, offering learners the opportunity to study for a PgCert, PgDip or MSc, or to study individual modules as micro-credentials, which can build up over time to a formal Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma or Master’s qualification.
To register your interest in our micro-credentials, please email CSSHSFLU@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
This enables flexible, variable progression that is responsive to student and employer continuous professional learning needs and the constantly changing practice environment.
Any relevant modules at Level 7 (Master’s level) studied at another university, that meet the learning needs of the student, can be incorporated into the module mix via the Recognising Prior Learning (RPL) procedure.
In addition, it is recognised that many professions engage with CPD activities which are not credit rated, and these can also be considered through the RPL procedure.
Please Note:
* MSc Advanced Practice (Audiology) is also available as a full-time programme over 15 months.
Applicants must normally be able to demonstrate a minimum of 2 years recent and relevant experience in an appropriate setting.
Applicants for the Dietetics pathway should be registered Dieticians with the Health and Care Professions Council and applicants for the Speech and Language Therapy pathway should be registered Speech and Language Therapists with the Health and Care Professions Council.
For some clinical micro-credentials, specialist clinical experience may be required on entry to ensure that you are well placed for successful study on the module.
This will be determined on a case-by-case basis by the relevant module leader.
The MSc Advanced Practice in Healthcare programme contains 3 academic awards:
Postgraduate Certificate in Advanced Practice in Healthcare – comprising:
Postgraduate Diploma in Advanced Practice in Healthcare – 120 credits, comprising:
Master of Science in Advanced Practice in Healthcare – 180 credits, comprising:
In addition, specialist named pathways are available in the PgDip and MSc awards, for students who choose to pursue specific healthcare specialist areas.
These pathways have additional restrictions on the modules that must be completed.
All pathways include the 3 core modules; the remaining 60 credits of modules are then drawn from a more limited selection of available options, to reflect the clinical/professional specialism in the named pathway.
Specialist named awards are not available for the Postgraduate Certificate – students enrolling for the PgCert will be awarded the Postgraduate Certificate in Advanced Practice in Healthcare.
Decision Making in Practice (20 credits)
The aim of this module is to enable students to utilise a knowledge and understanding of the theoretical literature on judgement, decision making, competence and expertise alongside practice based and patient/service factors to examine decision making related to clinical practice and service provision.
Evidence Based Practice (20 credits)
The aim of this module is to provide students with the skills and knowledge required to design and undertake a systematic critical review of published information to inform evidence-based developments in practice.
Applied Research Methods & Design (20 credits)
The aim of the module is to enable students to develop their research skills in order to apply principles of evidence-based practice, and design and carry out robust research projects.
Project and Career Planning (20 credits)
The aim of this module is to enable students to design and develop an advanced specialist project in their discipline to enhance their own and/or others’ learning, work, or practice, and to evaluate their own knowledge, skills, interests and ambitions to create their own personal career development plan.
Project (40 credits)
The aim of this module is to enable students to work independently to investigate an area in their discipline relevant to their own learning, work, or practice, and to present and discuss their findings, demonstrating a systematic understanding and critical awareness of their discipline and area of professional practice.
We offer a broad range of project types including traditional empirical research projects, enterprise/innovation projects (e.g., business planning or consultancy), or product/intervention design.
Students can also complete the project as a placement/professional practice development project, focused on developing and demonstrating a specific set of professional knowledge, skills and competencies and their application in practice.
All optional modules are worth 20 credits:
Advanced Practice Educator
The module aims to critically explore the theoretical basis for learning through practice, to develop your professional competence as a practice educator, and to allow you to design and develop an innovative education activity.
Advancing Personal Skills and Practice in the Workplace
The module aims to equip students to critically evaluate their individual learning requirements in relation to a specified and justified area of practice that involves the requirement to resolve high level, complex, practice scenarios, and structure an approach to their own learning to satisfy specified learning outcomes.
If you opt for this module, you will identify, plan and manage a change or development within your area of professional practice by designing a project to be carried out in the workplace.
You will identify and develop your own learning outcomes, and these act as steps within a project plan.
The projects encourage professional and personal growth in relation to the four pillars of advanced practice, whilst also having a direct positive impact on the service/area of practice.
You will have both a University and a work-based supervisor to support and guide you during the module, and the module project plans provide a template for future quality improvement projects.
Further Advancing Personal Skills and Practice in the Workplace
Students can complete this module after they have completed the Advancing Personal Skills and Practice in the Workplace module.
The module adopts a similar approach and further advances practice by requiring students to develop an aspect or level of practice distinct from that previously undertaken.
Facilitating Interprofessional Education and Collaborative Practice
The module aims to critically explore the theoretical basis for interprofessional learning, education and collaborative practice, develop professional competence as an interprofessional learning facilitator or practice educator, and allow you to design and develop an innovative education resource or activity.
Genetics and Genomics in Healthcare
The module aim is to enable the student to provide a contemporary view of the role of Genetics and Genomics in health and disease.
Leadership and Management in Healthcare
This module aims to critically examine leadership and management theory and practice while supporting students as they lead and manage change at the advanced practitioner level in a contemporary healthcare organisation.
Research and Practice in Stroke
The aim of this module is to enable students to extend their current knowledge and understanding to a higher level in the fields of Prehospital, Acute, Rehabilitation and Life After Stroke Care and practice and to be able to incorporate their postgraduate academic learning in the workplace through a research lens.
Pathway Information and Specific Modules:
Students completing the Audiology specialist pathway must complete the following 3 modules, in addition to the core modules above.
No other optional modules are available in this pathway.
Balance Disorders and Rehabilitation
This module aims to equip participants with essential knowledge to understand the principles behind common tests used in vestibular assessment and the clinical management of balance disorders.
Paediatric Hearing Impairment
This module aims to equip participants with essential knowledge to understand the rationale behind various hearing tests and audiological habilitation methods designed for children of various ages.
Advanced Diagnostic Audiology and Rehabilitation
This module aims to equip participants with knowledge and practical skills in advanced audiological techniques, to provide assessment and audiological rehabilitation options for adults.
Students completing the Complex Lower Limb specialist pathway must complete 60 credits of optional modules, selected from the list below.
Specialist clinical modules:
Sports Biomechanics and Injury Management
The module aims to formulate and appreciate the role of key biomechanical concepts and functional performance analysis in sports injury, the prevention of injury, coaching and research.
To develop an understanding of theoretical and practical applications of specific methods of management in the sports patient.
Science of Footwear
The module aims to formulate and appreciate the role and theoretical understanding of footwear design incorporating key biomechanical and functional concepts.
To develop an understanding of theoretical and practical applications and assessment of footwear for the management of different patient groups.
Cross-disciplinary modules (described in more detail under Optional Modules above):
Students completing the Dental Technology specialist pathway must complete the following 3 modules, in addition to the core modules above.
Advanced Dental Technology Techniques 1
This module will enable students to advance an identified area or skill set within their current discipline area, through academic evaluation, professional discussion, advanced practical cases, self-evaluation, and critical reflection.
Advanced Dental Technology Techniques 2
This module will enable students to advance an identified area or skill set that is either within or beyond their current discipline area, through academic evaluation, professional discussion, advanced practical cases, self-evaluation, and critical reflection.
Students completing the Dietetics specialist pathway must complete 60 credits of optional modules, selected from the list below.
Nutrigenetics and Nutrigenomics
The module is designed to enable the student to gain understanding of gene-diet interactions at multiple levels.
To equip the students with information on the sources of genetic advances as part of their continued development.
Nutrition and the Older Adult
To enable the practitioner to critically review the nutritional care of an aging population and synthesize a holistic and integrated approach to practice and influence changes in practice, which is evidence based, innovative, practical and effective.
Students completing the Speech and Language Therapy specialist pathway must complete 60 credits of optional modules, selected from the list below.
Assessing and Analysing Cleft Palate Speech
This module aims to provide students with an overview of speech development in cleft palate +/- lip and velopharyngeal dysfunction, and the ways in which this might differ from typical speech development.
Develop students’ knowledge of a range of theoretical approaches to the study of speech processing in cleft palate +/- lip and velopharyngeal dysfunction.
Develop students’ knowledge of instrumental and perceptual techniques for the analysis of speech production in cleft palate +/- lip and velopharyngeal dysfunction.
Develop students’ skills in the perceptual phonetic analysis of cleft palate speech.
Interventions for Cleft Palate Speech and Service Provision
The module aims to develop students’ knowledge of a range of evidence-based therapy approaches for the treatment of cleft palate speech.
Develop students’ knowledge of instrumental therapy approaches for the treatment of cleft palate speech.
Provide students with strategies for selecting therapy approaches and evaluating therapy.
Introduce students to the principles of practice-based evidence.
Develop students’ understanding of other aspects of care provided by the multidisciplinary team (MDT).
Develop students’ understanding of the place of cleft speech therapy in the wider context of the NHS and other healthcare providers.
Introduce students to key issues of ethics and clinical governance that apply to the care of individuals with cleft palate speech.
Multilingualism in Practice: Speech, Language and Communication Needs
This module aims to facilitate the exploration of current knowledge and understanding of bi- and multilingualism and application of these concepts, frameworks and perspectives to enhance practice when working with children and/or adults with speech, language and/or communication needs.
In doing so, learners will develop an advanced ability to synthesise information from a range of sources and recognise their own role in affecting change to ensure effective, equitable and person-centred practices.
A well-balanced mix of theory and practice is delivered via a range of teaching methods across the programme, including:
A typical 20-credit taught module will have approximately 40-45 hours of associated scheduled teaching activities, in a combination of the above approaches.
Alongside these scheduled activities, you’ll undertake your own independent learning – such as reading and research to prepare for seminars or assessments, unsupervised group work with fellow students, engaging with academic skills support, data collection for individual projects, etc.
Students on this programme will have opportunities to work together innovatively and collaboratively across disciplines by sharing their knowledge and skills, which will be beneficial for the students in terms of their engagement and experience.
The Master’s project also allows this flexibility as students typically undertake their project in their place of work.
All students will be allocated a personal tutor who will offer academic and pastoral support and guidance on pathway specific and option modules to select to meet their individual learning needs.
Our programme and modules are designed to offer opportunities for formative tasks and feedback to help build confidence and develop your ability to evaluate your own progress.
We use authentic assessment tasks which enable you to apply your knowledge and skills to scenarios, activities and settings commonly encountered in professional practice.
Assessments are applied to the four pillars of advanced practice.
The assessments are devised to have real life application to subject specific areas, and many modules have outcomes which will aid dissemination of learning in the workplace e.g., infographics, presentations.
The programme includes a range of assessment methods, including:
The programme contains no unseen written examinations.
We carefully plan our assessment schedule to avoid excessive bunching of similar types of assessment, and realistic deadlines.
Every assessment includes a detailed briefing and clearly defined marking criteria, which have been developed and tested in partnership with students.
The programme is closely aligned to professional standards and competencies, including the Professional Framework for Enhanced, Advanced and Consultant clinical practice in Wales (HEIW 2023) , and relevant professional development frameworks from clinical specialisms and professional associations.
Our module assessments directly relate to future employment or work-related tasks, or more generally to the advancement of the subject and profession, and your own aspirations.
This will enable you to develop and demonstrate the application of your knowledge and skills to real-world professional situations.
By studying this programme, you will be able to lead and contribute to developments in your profession and organisation through a more pro-active, critical and reflective approach: acting as an agent of change, a leader and advocate of your profession and for high quality healthcare.
Career development planning & work-based learning opportunities
In the Project & Career Planning module, you will engage in reflective self-evaluation of your knowledge, skills, and experiences, benchmarking these against relevant disciplinary standards/competency frameworks.
We’ll support you to evaluate your current strengths and prioritise areas for improvement relevant to your own career goals and ambitions.
In the Project module, you can select one of a variety of project types (empirical research, consultancy, enterprise/innovation, or product/intervention design), For many part-time students, this involves working directly on a topic relevant to your organisation, workplace and aligned to your professional practice.
You can also elect to complete an industry placement/work-based learning project, focusing on developing your skills and competencies in a complex professional context.
For this programme, this is an approach best suited to full-time students on the Audiology pathway who may not have a current professional practice role.
If you select this type of project you will need to obtain a suitable placement (minimum duration: 200 hours, maximum duration 6 months).
We’ll support you to find and obtain an appropriate work-based learning experience using our network of industry contacts.
We cannot guarantee a placement opportunity for every student, and it is likely that many placement opportunities will involve some kind of competitive recruitment process .
Applicants should hold an honours degree in a discipline relating to their proposed area of study.
However, candidates with other relevant qualifications will be considered.
The applied nature of the course and the emphasis on critical reflection and the development of advanced practice require candidates to have relevant experience on which they can reflect and develop their studies.
Entry Requirements for specific pathways:
Selection Procedure
Candidates will be considered by the course director and at least one other member of the course team and may be invited to interview.
At this stage there will be discussion about the potential areas that the candidate wishes to study as well as consideration of developmental needs.
International Applicants
All pathways except for Dental Technology: Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an academic IELTS 7.0 standard with no sub-score lower than 6.5 or equivalent, which is a requirement for the Health & Care Professions Council.
Dental Technology pathway only: Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an academic IELTS 6.5 standard with no sub-score lower than 6.0 or equivalent, which is a requirement for the Health & Care Professions Council​.
How to Apply
Applications for this course should be made direct to the University via our self-service system.
For further information, please visit our How to Apply pages at www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/howtoapply .
If you are interested in using credit from another institution, or have obtained qualifications and/or experience to study for a course at Cardiff Met, you can find further information on this as well as information on how to apply on the RPL page .
Tuition Fees and Financial Support:
Part-time fees:
Charges are per Single Module unless specified:
Undergraduate = 10 Credits; Postgraduate = 20 Credits
For information on modules to be studied part time please contact the programme leader.
For course specific enquiries, please contact the Programme Director, Hannah Amos: Email: hamos@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
To register your interest in our microcredentials, please email CSSHSFLU@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
For pathway specific enquiries, please contact the Pathway Leaders:
Audiology:
Prof.
Fei Zhao Email: fzhao@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Complex Lower Limb:
Dr Sarah Curran Email: scurran@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Dental:
Chet Geisel Email: cgeisel@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Edward Mapley Email: emapley@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Dietetics:
Katherine Gallimore Email: kgallimore@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Speech and Language Therapy:
Hannah Amos Email: hamos@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Part time (MSc): 3 years.
Students can also study individual modules as micro-credentials, which can build up over time to a formal PgCert, PgDip or Master's qualification.
Full time (Audiology pathway only): 15 months, with option to complete in 12 months.
Includes option to complete a work-based placement project of up to 6 months.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/cyngor-i-ymgeiswyr/sut-i-wneud-cais:
Mae nifer o wahanol weithdrefnau ymgeisio ar gyfer y gwahanol fathau o gyrsiau ar gael ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd.
Mae'n bwysig eich bod yn defnyddio'r weithdrefn gywir i sicrhau bod eich cais yn ein cyrraedd.
Mae'r wybodaeth a'r prosesau ymgeisio isod yn berthnasol yn unig ar gyfer ymgeiswyr Cartref ac UE.
Cliciwch yma i gael gwybodaeth ar sut i wneud cais fel ymgeisydd rhyngwladol.
Mae ein cyrsiau HND/Gradd israddedig amser llawn i gyd wedi'u lleoli yng Nghampws Llandaf neu Cyncoed gan gychwyn ym mis Medi bob blwyddyn.
Os ydych chi am wneud cais ar gyfer un o'r cyrsiau yma, bydd angen i chi wneud cais trwy UCAS .
Gallwch wneud cais drwy broses ymgeisio arferol UCAS hyd at ddiwedd mis Mehefin, a thrwy wasanaeth Clirio UCAS ar ôl mis Mehefin.
Mae'r mwyafrif o'n cyrsiau'n derbyn ceisiadau drwy'r flwyddyn ond cysylltwch â Derbyniadau i gadarnhau a oes dyddiad cau penodol ar gyfer eich dewis chiy cwrs o'ch dewis.
Os gwnewch gais yn rhywle arall ac yna newid eich meddwl, mae Met Caerdydd hefyd yn derbyn ceisiadau drwy UCAS Extra .
Mae UCAS Extra yn rhoi 6ed dewis i chi rhag ofn y byddwch yn newid eich meddwl neu ddim yn derbyn y cynigion yr oeddech chi’n eu disgwyl oddi wrth eich dewisiadau gwreiddiol.
Mae gennym hefyd nifer o raglenni HND a Gradd Sylfaen sy'n cael eu rhedeg mewn partneriaeth â cholegau lleol – Coleg Caerdydd a'r Fro, Coleg Pen-y-bont ar Ogwr, Coleg Gwent a Coleg y Mynydd Du.
Os hoffech wneud cais am un o'r cyrsiau hyn gallwch ymgeisio’n uniongyrchol i'r coleg neu drwy UCAS.
Gellir gweld manylion y cyrsiau a sut i wneud cais o dan ein A-Y o Gyrsiau Israddedig .
Hefyd, gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod chi'n darllen y wybodaeth ar dudalennau Cyn i Chi Wneud Cais i gael rhai awgrymiadau.
Cyrsiau ôl-raddedig ar gyfer ymgeiswyr sydd eisoes wedi cwblhau gradd ac sy'n dymuno dod yn athrawon cymwys yw ein cyrsiau TAR.
Mae'r cyrsiau i gyd yn rai blwyddyn llawn amser gan ddechrau ym mis Medi.
Os ydych chi am wneud cais am gwrs hyfforddi athrawon TGAU, gwnewch gais trwy gyfrwng Hyfforddiant Athrawon UCAS .
Dylid gwneud ceisiadau Ôl-raddedig (ac eithrio PGCE Cynradd ac Uwchradd), Proffesiynol a Rhan-amser yn uniongyrchol i Derbyniadau trwy system Hunanwasanaeth Met Caerdydd.
Cliciwch yma am fwy o wybodaeth.
Gall myfyrwyr rhyngwladol sydd â diddordeb mewn gwneud cais a deall gofynion fisa ddod o hyd i ragor o wybodaeth trwy glicio yma .
Dylid gwneud ceisiadau ymchwil yn uniongyrchol i Derbyniadau.
Os ydych chi'n fyfyriwr cyfredol ym Met Caerdydd (yn astudio ar Flwyddyn Sylfaen neu HNC/D) ac yn dymuno uwchraddio i raglen israddedig, bydd angen i chi ddechrau drwy gysylltu â'ch Cyfarwyddwr Rhaglen a chwblhau Ffurflen Datganiad o Fwriad.
Bydd angen i Gyfarwyddwr y Rhaglen hysbysu'r Gofrestrfa Academaidd wedyn os caniateir i chi fwrw ymlaen.
Mae'r broses hon yn eithrio'r rhai sy'n gwneud cais am BSc Technoleg Ddeintyddol, BSc Gwyddorau Gofal Iechyd, BSc Maeth Dynol a Dieteg, BSc Podiatreg, BSc Gwaith Cymdeithasol a BSc Therapi Lleferydd ac Iaith BSc .
Yn yr achosion yma, rhaid gwneud ceisiadau trwy UCAS gan fod gan fod yna gyfyngiadau ar leoedd ar y rhaglenni yma neu eu bod yn cael eu hariannu gan y GIG neu NLIAH.
Os nad ydych wedi mynegi diddordeb i symud ymlaen ac wedi cael dyfarniad, bydd angen i chi ailymgeisio drwy UCAS .
Os ydych chi'n fyfyriwr sy'n astudio yn un o'n colegau partneriaeth masnachfraint ar raglen israddedig amser llawn, ac yn dymuno uwchraddio, neu ddefnyddio'r hyn rydych chi wedi'i gyflawni, i symud ymlaen i lefel wahanol ym Met Caerdydd, gallwch wneud hynny fel trosglwyddiad mewnol.
Trafodir uwchraddio pan fyddwch chi'n agosáu at ddiwedd eich cwrs Gradd FdN/HNC/HND, ac os ydych chi’n dymuno, yna bydd angen i chi gwblhau Datganiad o Fwriad i Gynnydd.
Bydd hyn yn caniatáu i'n Tîm Cofrestru ddiweddaru eich cofnod cofrestru ar y cwrs newydd, unwaith y bydd eich dyfarniad wedi'i gadarnhau gan y byrddau arholi.
Os ydych chi'n fyfyriwr sy'n astudio yn un o'n sefydliadau partneriaeth dramor, ac yn dymuno uwchraddio neu ddefnyddio trosglwyddiad credyd i astudio ym Met Caerdydd, bydd angen i chi ymgeisio drwy UCAS .
Yn dibynnol ar eich cymwysterau, byddwch yn derbyn cynnig a gwybodaeth ynghylch cychwyn ym Met Caerdydd.
Byddwn yn ystyried eich cais i drosglwyddo o Brifysgol arall os ydych yn cwrdd â'n hanghenion trosglwyddo.
Rhaid i chi wneud eich cais i drosglwyddo trwy UCAS (myfyrwyr israddedig), neu trwy'r system cais hunanwasanaeth (myfyrwyr ôl-raddedig a chyrsiau proffesiynol).
Mae'r dyddiau cau arferol yn berthnasol.
Yn yr achos gyntaf, mae croeso i chi anfon tystiolaeth o'ch astudiaethau cyfredol, er mwyn i ni allu asesu a allwn gynnig lle ac yma mha flwyddyn y gallwch chi gychwyn eich astudiaethau gyda ni.
Bydd ein dewis yn ddibynnol ar os yw eich astudiaethau cyfredol yn cyd-fynd â chynnwys ein cwrs er mwyn caniatáu i ni roi  i chi.
Os ydych chi'n fyfyriwr cyfredol ym Met Caerdydd ac yn dymuno trosglwyddo i raglen arall o fewn Met Caerdydd, bydd angen i chi ddechrau drwy gysylltu â Chyfarwyddwr Rhaglen y cwrs rydych chi am ymuno ag ef er mwyn asesu eich addasrwydd.
O gytuno i’r trosglwyddiad, bydd angen i chi ofyn i Diwtor eich Cwrs blaenorol lenwi ffurflen drosglwyddo fewnol a hysbysu'r Gofrestrfa Academaidd er mwyn newid manylion eich rhaglen o fewn y system myfyrwyr.
Nid fydd angen i chi fynd drwy'r broses Dderbyn unwaith eto .​
Os ydych chi'n ystyried gadael Met Caerdydd i barhau â'ch astudiaethau yn rhywle arall, cysylltwch â'ch tiwtor personol yn y lle cyntaf i drafod eich opsiynau.
O benderfynu gadael wedyn, bydd angen i'ch tiwtor lenwi Ffurflen Tynnu'n Ôl ar gyfer y Gofrestrfa Academaidd i dynnu eich enw nôl yn ffurfiol o'ch cwrs.​
Derbynia Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd geisiadau gohiriedig ar gyfer y mwyafrif o’n cyrsiau israddedig.
Bydd angen i chi nodi'ch blwyddyn mynediad berthnasol wrth wneud eich cais drwy UCAS a chwrdd â'ch holl amodau cynnig yn ystod y flwyddyn rydych chi'n gwneud cais.
Sylwer, oherwydd niferoedd targed cyfyngedig a’r lleoliadau sydd ar gael, ni allwn dderbyn ceisiadau gohiriedig ar gyfer y cyrsiau canlynol – BSc Therapi Lleferydd ac Iaith / BSc Maeth Dynol a Dieteg / BSc Gwyddor Gofal Iechyd / BSc Podiatreg / BA Addysg Gynradd gyda SAC, a chyrsiau ​Cynradd TAR ac Uwchradd TAR.
Ystyrir amgylchiadau ar gyfer gohirio cais felly os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiadau ynghylch gohirio, cysylltwch â Derbyniadau ar ​ holiderbyniadau@metcaerdydd.ac.uk .
Mae Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yn ddarparwr dysgu cofrestredig dan gynllun ELCAS y Weinyddiaeth Amddiffyn ar gyfer personél y lluoedd arfog sy'n dymuno astudio cwrs prifysgol.
Ceir mwy o wybodaeth yma .
Myfyriwr aeddfed yw unrhyw un dros 21 oed nad aeth i'r brifysgol ar ôl bod mewn ysgol neu goleg.
Ym Met Caerdydd, rydym yn croesawu pobl o bob oed i'n cyrsiau israddedig.
Mae ymgeiswyr aeddfed yn penderfynu cychwyn ar addysg uwch am nifer o resymau – er mwyn newid cyfeiriad efallai neu ddatblygu eu gyrfa.
Mae UCAS wedi cynhyrchu gwybodaeth ddefnyddiol ar gyfer ymgeiswyr dros 21 oed a gall helpu chi gyda'r broses ymgeisio.
Ceir ragor o wybodaeth yma .
Mae ein myfyrwyr aeddfed yn ymgeisio am amrywiaeth eang o gyrsiau, a gallant ddod â sgiliau a phriodoleddau o feysydd eraill tebyg.
Mae blogiau ein myfyrwyr yn dangos i chi sut mae rhai o'n myfyrwyr aeddfed wedi ymgolli ym mywyd myfyrwyr ym Met Caerdydd.
Mae gan Brifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd rwymedigaeth gyfreithiol i gydymffurfio â sancsiynau a orfodir gan lywodraeth y DU, cyfundrefnau sancsiynau’r DU - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk​ ).
Fel y cyfryw​, nid ydym yn gallu cael arian ar gyfer ffioedd dysgu a thaliadau am lety a gwasanaethau eraill ar y campws lle tarddodd yr arian hwnnw o wlad a grybwyllir yng nghyfundrefn sancsiynau’r DU.
Mae hefyd yn ofynnol i ni fod yn wyliadwrus o drosglwyddo technoleg gyfyngedig trwy addysgu neu gymryd rhan mewn cydweithrediadau ymchwil.
Mae hyn yn golygu bod unrhyw ymgeisydd sy’n gwneud cais o wlad a ganiateir ar lefel ôl-raddedig neu uwch, ar gyfer cwrs pwnc STEM cymhwysol a allai arwain at allforio meddalwedd neu dechnoleg sensitif, y gellid ei defnyddio ar gyfer potensial milwrol (gan gynnwys adeiladu arfau Dinistrio Torfol).
efallai na fydd modd cynnig lle.
Mae cyrsiau y mae hyn yn effeithio arnynt yn cynnwys yr holl raglenni yn ein Hysgol Dechnoleg a chyrsiau Dylunio Cynnyrch yn yr Ysgol Celf a Dylunio.
Mae angen i ymgeiswyr rhyngwladol sy’n destun rheolaeth fewnfudo yn y DU, sy’n bwriadu astudio ar lefel ôl-raddedig mewn rhai pynciau sensitif, y gellid defnyddio gwybodaeth amdanynt mewn rhaglenni i ddatblygu arfau dinistr torfol neu eu dull o’u cyflwyno, wneud cais i’r Cynllun Cymeradwyo Technoleg Academaidd ar gyfer tystysgrif ATAS cyn y gallant astudio yn y DU.
Cyfeirir unrhyw bryderon ynghylch myfyrwyr sy’n gweithio gyda thechnoleg sensitif at Gynllun Cymeradwyo Technoleg Academaidd llywodraeth y DU.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/undergraduate-courses:
If you are thinking of going to university to carry on your studies, or returning to education after a break, Cardiff Met is here to help!
Below you will find the core information ​​​to help you make your decision.
Why choose University?
Why choose Cardiff Met?
You might already know exactly which course you want to study with us, or you might know that you want to study at Cardiff Met but aren't sure in which area.
There are hundreds of options to consider so just take your time and research all the options available.
UCAS have a great selection of tools on their website for you to use and research your options.
At Cardiff Met, one of the best options for you, is to attend one of our campus Open Days.
These days give you an insight into life as a Cardiff Met student, a chance to chat to current students and meet the academic team of the course you are interested in.
Book your place now!
You can also narrow down your search by using our Course Finder .
Once you have decided to apply, you need to make your application online via UCAS .
There are sections to complete including your personal details, your university choices (including Cardiff Met!) and courses, and your Personal Statement.
The personal statement section of your application will take the most time and is the most important so do multiple drafts and ask different people to read over it for you.
You should think about why you want to study the course you have chosen, what ambitions you have after completing the course, what extra-curricular activities you have been involved in, any employment skills you have picked up and any other interesting details that relate to the course.
The statement's purpose is to give an overall picture of who you are and why you want to study the course so take your time on it.
We have a Student Recruitment team that may have already visited your school/college for a personal statement workshop but otherwise, you can view some tips from them here.
UCAS also provide some useful guides on constructing your personal statement.
Once you have applied, your details will be sent to your university choices and we will then communicate with you mostly via email.
Make sure the email address on your UCAS application is not your school email address as this won't be active after you have finished and as a personal email address, make sure it is an appropriate username.
Key dates for 2025
Date
Notes
September 2024
Completed UCAS applications can be submitted to UCAS which will be referred to Cardiff Met if we are one of your choices.
October onwards
Book onto one of our campus Open Days to get an experience of what Cardiff Met life is like.
29 January 2025
Deadline for all applications to be guaranteed consideration.
February – June 2025
You will be able to attend an Applicant Day if you have been offered a place at Cardiff Met.
An invitation will be emailed to you so that you can book a place.
26 February 2025
UCAS Extra opens which will allow you to add a choice if you haven’t received an offer from your original five choices.
March 2025
Details on how to apply for student finance and scholarships will be sent to anyone holding an offer with Cardiff Met – check out our finance pages for more information.
1 April 2025
Apply for your accommodation from 1 April if you have made us your firm or insurance choice.
14 May 2025
Deadline for Cardiff Met to make a decision on applications that were submitted by 29 January.
4 June 2025
You will need to reply to your offers if all decisions have been received by 14 May.
4 July 2025
Last date to add a UCAS Extra choice.
5 July 2025
Clearing opens.
17 July 2025
Deadline for Cardiff Met to make a decision on applications that were submitted by 30 June.
23 July 2025
You will need to reply to your offers if all decisions have been received by 17 July.
August onwards
Enrolment opens for all courses.
August 2025
Clearing Campus Tours available.
14 August 2025
Publication of A level and BTEC RQF results.
31 August 2025
Deadline to meet all academic conditions of your offer​.
What to Expect After you Apply
If you can't find the answer you are looking for or you need some specific advice, you can contact our Admissions team on 02920 416010, talk to us on Live Chat from the bubble in the bottom right corner or email us on askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/part-time-apprenticeship-postgraduate-and-professional-courses:
​​​​Cardiff Metropolitan University is proud to be known for running a wide range of popular career focused Postgraduate, Part-time and Professional courses, which are flexible and bite-size: ideal for those with hectic lives.
They are delivered by experts, giving everyone the assurance of excellence for which we are rightly proud.
Whether you want to study on a full or part-time basis, our staff will endeavour to provide the appropriate motivation, support and encouragement you need.
Our part-time students apply for a number of reasons: some are studying to gain professional qualifications and career development, others are returning to study after many years away, and some simply want to keep active in retirement.
Whatever the reason for you choosing to study, we will offer every assistance to support your application.
For more information on our high quality Part Time, Postgraduate and Professional Courses, and to find a programme to suit your needs, please visit our postgraduate and part-time course lists.​
If you are an EU origin applicant but have gained Settled/Pre-Settled Status, and you have lived in the UK for at least 3 years before the start of the course, you can apply as a Home student .
Please be aware that you will need to upload evidence of your UK residency status on our self-service system, along with a copy of your passport, which will be verified at application stage.
Online applications are submitted through Self Service , and you will be required to upload Compulsory Supporting Documents such as qualifications.
A step-by-step guide for our Self Service can be found here .
If you would like to complete an application form through the medium of Welsh, please contact us directly on derbyniadau@metcaerdydd.ac.uk .​
You are able to save your application and return to submit at a later date, however if your application hasn't been submitted within 6 months, your account will be deactivated.
Once submitted, you will be able to log in and check the progress of your application.
Additional information for EU Applicants
If you have undertaken your Higher Education qualifications outside the UK, you will need to provide official translations.
Please note: applications for Primary and Secondary PGCE Teacher Training courses must be made through UCAS Teacher Training , whilst applications for the PCE / PGCE (PCET) Post Compulsory Education and Training should be made through Self-Service .
To apply online, please click here to access the International Online Application System.
If you have studied at Cardiff Met previously, or are still studying with us, you will already have a student record which can be accessed through Self-Service.
You will need to use the same login details when applying for a new programme:
Further information for Debtors or relating to Bad Academic Standing can be found in the Admissions Policy within the Advice to Applicants Homepage .
Before making your application , please always ensure you read the Compulsory Supporting Documents page.
Certain programmes do have specific documents which need to be submitted at application stage.
Your application will not be considered until we do receive all compulsory documents.
Cardiff Met makes all reasonable efforts to ensure that the information provided to applicants on programmes offered is as accurate and up-to-date as possible.
However, programmes of study are continually revised and there may well be some changes between the time of publication and the time a student starts the programme.
The running of University programmes are also subject to numbers, in that a certain number of students need to undertake the programme for it to be viable.
Where changes are made or a programme is discontinued, applicants are informed as soon as possible, preferably before accepting the offer of a place, so applicants can consider an alternative programme at Cardiff Met or elsewhere.
If a decision to discontinue a programme is made after applicants have been offered a place, Admissions will make every effort to offer relevant alternatives and provide assistance to applicants to find that alternative choice.
If offered a place on a programme of which the viability is uncertain, applicants with unconditional offers will not be able to enrol until such time as viability for the offered period of study is confirmed.
Applicants affected will receive communication updates and confirmation of when they are able to self-enrol.
For further information on changes to programmes, please refer to the disclaimer included in the Student Handbook which you will receive as part of your joining instructions before beginning your programme.​
Please visit our Terms and Conditions page for full information.​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/pgce-teacher-training:
If you are considering making an application for our Primary PGCE or Secondary PGCE course, it’s worth planning ahead and considering important dates and processes as many of our PGCE courses become full very quickly.
You will also need to make sure you have done everything expected of you to ensure that you secure your place.
If you are a graduate working in a Secondary school but currently do not hold a Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), the PGCE Route to Qualified Teacher Status for School Based Employees will enable you to gain QTS while continuing to teach in your own school.
You will have a minimum of 3 years of sustained teaching responsibility to enable you to build on your current experience.
If you are a graduate interested in teaching within a Post-Compulsory education setting – such as Further Education, Higher Education, Adult and Community Learning, HM Forces training, or prison education – our PGCE/PCE in Post-Compulsory Education and Training could be the ideal programme for you.
To help make your life a little easier, we have split this section of our website to help you identify the main things that you need to do both before and after you make your PGCE application through the UCAS Undergraduate system.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/qualifications:
​The links below are for information on qualifications, changes and processes for entry to Cardiff Met, and also information on qualifications taken outside the UK.
We also accept some equivalencies for GCSE English and Maths, some of which are detailed on the links below.
We recognise that not everyone has the same study opportunities, and we welcome applications from students with a range of profiles who have enthusiasm and the skills and experience to study with us.
We take a rounded approach to offer making, and in some circumstances we can issue a graded offer in lieu of an offer using the UCAS Tariff.
If this sounds like your profile and you are interested in our courses, please do get in touch to discuss your profile with one of our Admissions team.
If you already have an offer from Cardiff Met, view further information on how to provide proof of your qualifications .
If you can't find what you were looking for or if you have any more specific enquiries, please contact Admissions on 02920 416010 or askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Please also refer to the information under our Advice for Applicants pages for information on How to Apply and what to do after you apply.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/criminal-convictions:
Cardiff Met values diversity and encourages a wider student population by welcoming applications from all those interested in higher education, from all backgrounds, with a potential and determination to succeed.
Different procedures concerning the disclosure of information relating to criminal convictions are in place, depending on the programme being applied for.
Having a criminal conviction is not an automatic bar to study on our programmes and we welcome any enquiries.
If you wish to speak to someone in confidence prior to, or during your application process, please contact Admissions on 029 2041 6014.
Applicants who apply through UCAS or direct to the institution for courses that bring them into contact with children and/or vulnerable adults are asked, to indicate if they have a relevant spent or unspent conviction that would appear on an enhanced criminal records check.
The process of establishing the existence of a criminal convictions is accomplished by the DBS procedure for courses that require a criminal records check.
Information in relation to whether a DBS check is a requirement of a course is listed under the entry requirements section of the course information on Cardiff Met’s website.
During the enrolment process applicants and current students on courses that require a criminal records check, are asked to disclose any new or previously undisclosed relevant spent or unspent convictions that might impact their studies at the University.
Applicants and students undertaking courses which do not bring them into contact with children and/or vulnerable adults, are asked to inform the University if they are bound by restrictions or have probation requirements to fulfil following a conviction.
Applicants are asked for this information after they have been offered a place at the institution and are asked to complete the Applicant Criminal Conviction(s) Declaration – Proforma .
Applicants and current students on courses where a criminal records check is not required, are also asked to inform the University if they are bound by restrictions or have probation requirements to fulfil following a conviction.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/occupational-health-assessments:
​​​To comply with current Health & Safety legislation, all Cardiff Met applicants beginning a healthcare-related programme (involving a clinical placement component), are required to participate in a mandatory Occupational Health assessment.
Additionally, certain courses are also required to adhere to the Department of Health's immunisation and vaccination programme.
The courses that require participation in either an Occupational Health assessment and/or a vaccination programme are:
Students will be required to complete Innovate Healthcare's digital screening questionnaire which asks questions linked to your physical and mental health.
Through the questionnaire you can advise of any health conditions that may require specific recommendations or adjustments.
The final part of questionnaire focuses on immunisations.
Applicants holding an Conditional Firm place will be emailed a link from Innovate to access and complete the questionnaire online.
The immunisation questionnaire has the facility for you to upload any supporting immunisation evidence you may have, and it is advisable for you to have this ready as a saved file before starting the questionnaire.
Following completion of your immunisation questionnaire, you may receive an email requesting additional immunisation evidence, but if you do not have copies to provide, please advise Innovate Healthcare so they are able to progress your questionnaire to the next ​stage.
An Innovate Healthcare clinician will review your questionnaire responses and if further vaccinations and/or blood tests have been identified as a requirement for your course, you will receive an email notification advising a vaccination review is required.
If all the clinical requirements for your course have been met, you will receive a notification confirming you are cleared/FIT and no further action is required.
You will be required to attend scheduled vaccination clinics on campus to receive the required immunisations for your programme of study.
It is important you attend on the requested date as the follow up visits have already been agreed between the University and Innovate Healthcare, in line with the vaccination schedules.
IMPORTANT: Failure to attend your appointment without good cause and/or giving reasonable prior notice (no later than 5 working days before your appointment) may result in the cost of the vaccination(s) being administered at this appointment passed on to you the student.
Missed appointments will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and you may be asked to provide further evidence.
Please note, the occupational health vaccination process is a mandatory part of your healthcare programme, and ALL students are expected to engage.
At your appointment the nurse will retrieve your immunisation file and provide you with the appropriate consent that you will be required to complete on the day.
The nurse may take your blood to check your immunity levels in line with the requirements for your course and administer any required vaccinations, for example Hepatitis B.
You can access your blood test results and evidence of vaccinations delivered by Innovate Healthcare via their Patient Portal which requires you to log in (Innovate will provide a guide on how to do this).
Follow up vaccinations will be administered at the next nurse session, and the same process will apply until you have completed the vaccination course and the clinical requirements for your course have been met.
In order that Innovate can send out the health questionnaire your full name, e-mail, telephone number and course details obtained from your application will be passed on from Cardiff Met to Innovate.
No other personal information will be passed on and only Innovate will receive this information so that the health questionnaire can be completed in order to meet the professional entry requirements for the course.
Please find a link to Innovate’s website and their privacy policy concerning information stored.
​If you have any questions about Occupational Health, please contact:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/recognising-prior-learning-rpl:
​​Previous study, training and experience gained through work or volunteering are examples of activities that may count towards your programme of study.
We encourage students of all ages and from all backgrounds to study with us and know that significant achievements can be obtained by engagement in a range of activities.
If you think this might apply to you, please read the information in this section as it provides details of the process to help you determine if it may be suitable for you and then get in touch to discuss it with us.
If you have achieved qualifications such as a Foundation Degree, Certificate of Higher Education (CertHE​), Higher National Diploma (HND) or modules of an undergraduate (UG) or postgraduate (PG) degree at another university, we can consider an application for module exemption.
Direct entry into the second or third year of an undergraduate programme is also possible, dependent on what has been achieved and its relevance to the programme applied for.
This process is called Credit Transfer and is granted where we can directly map the modules you already have, and their content to those delivered on the programme you are applying for.
Credit can only be applied against whole completed modules, partial completion cannot be considered.
Credit may also be recognised from International countries (non EU) where qualifications are recognised by the National Academic Recognition Information Centre (NARIC).
Credit may also be given for previously certificated learning such as Open University modules, or learning for which a certificate has been awarded through an educational institution, professional body, or other recognised education/training provider.
This is known as Recognition of Prior Certified Learning (RPCL).
It is also possible to gain credit in recognition of uncertified learning such as knowledge or skills acquired through work and informal training, and this is known as Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL).
There is a time limit on the currency of prior learning and applicants will need to demonstrate that their qualifications and/or experience has been achieved within the last 5 years and is current.
For more information on Credit Transfer, RPCL and RPEL, please see the information below.
If you are an Organisation or Training Agency wishing to acquire credit for your employees based on training and experience gained in the workplace, please contact the Centre for Work Based Learning (CWBL): cwbl@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
For more information on CWBL, click here.
RPL is the process which allows education providers to recognise formal and informal learning and award or transfer of credit for use towards existing programmes.
RPL supports lifelong learning and allows individuals to integrate education with work by putting a value on their knowledge, skills and experience gained.
These competencies may have been gained through formal education, informal or non-formal training, or through life or work experience.
The key aspect of all forms of RPL is that they can be evidenced.
There are limits on the amount of credit that can be awarded through RPL, and these are related to the award you wish to undertake.
The recommended minimum credit values of Postgraduate, Graduate and Undergraduate Qualifications are shown in the Credit Table below:​
* at least 90 credits with Cardiff Metropolitan University to gain a Merit or Distinction
All applications for RPL should be made when you apply for admission to a programme, except when claiming Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL).
An RPEL claim needs to be awarded three weeks prior to the start of the programme to be considered for entry and therefore it is important to contact us well in advance of the start date of the programme.
For most full time Undergraduate programmes the 31st August deadline needs to be adhered to in relation to meeting all academic conditions of offer.
However, there are some programmes that have earlier deadlines.
Most of our programmes at both undergraduate and postgraduate level consider credit transfer for module exemption, with undergraduate programmes also accepting entrants into the second and third year dependent on numbers.
Top up programmes are also available for those applicants wishing to progress from HND or Foundation Degrees.
Cardiff Metropolitan's programmes are rated in a framework of credit that is recognised nationally called the Credit Accumulation and Transfer Scheme (CATS), which allows UK Education Institutions to recognise achievement at another institution, as long as it is relevant and not out of date.
The European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) also enables the comparing of study and attainment across the European Union, and other collaborating European countries.
This means that if you have studied at an institution on a HE programme you can use this to study on another programme at the same or different institution.
​​Numerous factors are considered when assessing suitability for credit transfer but generally 120 CATS / 60 ECTS are needed for year 2 entry and 240 CATS / 120 ECTS for year 3.
Please see the table below for full information:
Factors taken into consideration are the compatibility (relevance) of the learning outcomes of previous study, academic achievement e.g.
grades/marks obtained, quality of application including personal statement and satisfactory academic reference, meeting other entry requirements e.g.
GCSEs and if any progression agreements are in place.
All applications for undergraduate programmes must be made through UCAS at www.ucas.com , unless you are currently already studying at Cardiff Metropolitan University, in which case you will need to apply as an internal transfer.
Please refer to the Internal Transfer information.
Applications for postgraduate and part time programmes are made through the University's online application system Self Service .
Applications need to include a breakdown of the credit transfer applied for e.g.
the qualifications that are achieved, or will be achieved by the start of the programme applied for, including module breakdown descriptions.
This can be included as part of the application, or sent into Admissions directly, either electronically to RPLAdmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk or by post to:
Admissions Unit Marketing & External Relations Cardiff Metropolitan University Alexandra House Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB
Where further or additional information is required, applicants may be invited to the University to provide this to the programme tutor, so a decision can be made.
For late applicants or when more time is needed, credit may not be awarded until after the start of the programme.
It is not advisable to make assumptions about the volume of credit that may be recognised.
Once you have submitted your application, it will be sent to the relevant programme tutor to assess.
You will be formally communicated of the outcome through the application process you applied to i.e.
UCAS, internal transfer or self service.
You maybe requested to provide additional information/evidence to support your application.
If sufficient credit is awarded for entry onto a programme an offer will be processed and you will be sent further information concerning your entry.
Applications to undertake the Credit Transfer process may be deemed unsuccessful at any stage of the process and the applicant will have the right to appeal if they feel that their application has been misjudged.
To highlight the key processes within the Credit Transfer procedure, please click here​ ​ to view the flow chart.
Most of our programmes at both undergraduate and postgraduate level consider credit transfer for module exemption.
This means that as a Cardiff Met Student if you have achieved recognised ECTS credits from placements abroad, which are relevant to your course, you can apply for Credit Transfer.
grades/marks obtained.
When you have received your official confirmation of the ECTS credits you have been awarded from your placement, you will need to produce this as evidence to the ERASMUS team.
The evidence collected will be submitted to the Programme Staff for consideration, who will assess the relevance and compatibility of the credit(s) achieved.
The Programme Staff will then inform the ERASMUS team of the outcome.
Your official confirmation of credit(s) award should be sent to directly to the ERASMUS team, either electronically to RAWalters@cardiffmet.ac.uk ; or by post to:
Rowena Walters ERASMUS International Office Cardiff Metropolitan University Llandaff Campus Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB
If sufficient credit awarded is relevant, this will be updated on your student record.
To highlight the key processes within the Credit Transfer procedure, please click here​ to view the flow chart.
Prior certified learning is prior learning (such as professional development awards or employment-based awards) which is at Higher Education (HE) level, but has not led to the award or credits, or qualifications positioned on the relevant HE qualification framework.
A process of assessment enables a decision to be made about whether the learning is suitable for recognition.
Any evidence that you believe demonstrates a programme/module learning outcome can be included such as scanned copies of your education certificates e.g.
NVQs, A levels, accredited modules, HNCs and HNDs and documents describing the programme studied.
Applications need to include a breakdown of the overall qualification including a list of modules or units of study and their credit values, the syllabus and guided learning hours (GLHs).
This should be included as part of the application.
Full information is key, and if there is sufficient space on the form, additional information can be sent to Admissions directly, either electronically to RPLAdmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk ; or by post to:
For more information on National Credits, please refer to the Credit and Qualification Framework Information​ .
To access the Credit and Qualification Framework for Wales (CQFW), please click here .
Applications to undertake the RPCL may be deemed unsuccessful at any stage and the applicant will have the right to appeal.
To highlight the key processes within the RPCL procedure, please click here ​ to view the flow chart.
Prior experiential learning is prior learning gained through work, voluntary activities or other life experiences acquired outside of formal Higher Education (HE) or training systems.
RPEL involves an assessment process on the part of academic staff within the HE provider that leads to recognition, normally through the award of credit, or learning gained outside a defined (or formal) HE programme.
Any evidence that you believe demonstrates a programme/module learning outcome can be included:
For applicants already on a programme of study wishing to apply for credit exemption, they would normally be expected to apply during the preceding academic year.
Applications should consist of a written request, stating their current programme along with documentary evidence of the prior learning achieved.
Applicants will first need to express their interest via the Online RPEL Expression of Interest Form , which will need to be returned to RPLAdmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
You will then be contacted by the Programme Director, and if there is enough information to support the claim you will be advised to complete the RPEL Application Form , which should include your supporting documentation if relevant.
The completed RPEL Application Form needs to be sent back to RPLAdmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk to assess and an RPL Adviser will be in touch to progress your claim.
RPEL portfolio may include:
When considering evidence, factors such as content, level/weighting, validity and authenticity are taken into account.
The aim is to consider the learning you have achieved in the past to contribute to the learning requirements of the programme of study.
Once you have gathered the information to submit your application, you need to send it into Admissions directly, either electronically to RPLAdmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk ; or by post to:
Admissions Unit Marketing & External Relations Cardiff Metropolitan University Llandaff Campus Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB
On receipt, your application will be sent to an RPL Adviser for consideration.
The RPL Adviser will then provide feedback concerning the application in relation to whether or not a claim can be made.
At this point, further information/evidence will need to be submitted in the form of a portfolio.
Please refer to the RPL Guidance and RPEL Portfolio template ​ for information/evidence that needs to be provided.
Dependant on the claim being made and the availability of the evidence needed, this pr​ocess can take a considerable amount of time.
Where more time is needed to fully meet the criteria, your application may need to be considered for the next available intake.
Full information will be provided on portfolio structure by the RPL Adviser.
When or if the criteria is fully met, the application will be presented to the relevant examination board for the awarding of credit.
You will be formally communicated of the outcome from the examination board concerning the credit by the RPL Adviser.
If successful and sufficient credit is awarded, you may wish to use this for entry onto a full programme.
You will need to apply through UCAS at www.ucas.com for an undergraduate full-time programme, or Self-Service for a part-time and/or postgraduate programme.
Your application will be considered and a decision communicated to you along with further information concerning your entry.
If you are not immediately applying for entry onto a full programme i.e.
full-time degree, a transcript can be issued for successful credit claims, which can be used for future entry as Credit Transfer.
Applications to undertake the RPEL process may be deemed unsuccessful at any stage and the applicant will have the right to appeal.
Guidance is provided throughout the process and additional support given, or if applicable an alternative programme may be suggested.
Although support and advice is provided it is the applicants responsibility to prepare an application and to submit adequate documentary evidence in line with required deadlines.
The Adviser's view upon a draft claim does not normally guarantee the outcome of the assessment decision.
Undertaking a claim for your RPEL is not necessarily a 'fast track' to gaining a qualification, as it is sometimes easier to study the whole programme rather than make a claim.
No fee is charged to applicants for undertaking either the Credit Transfer or RPCL process.
However, due to the formal assessment requirement for RPEL, fees are charged based on the amount of credit applied for and the level of support that is required.
Applicants will be advised of the cost during their initial contact with an RPL Adviser.
Please see the Fee Table below:
Applicants will have the right to request additional support sessions, but this will be charged at £50 per session.
RPL Advisers may also suggest where further support sessions are deemed necessary to complete the process, but this will be agreed with the applicant before any sessions commence.
Any credit exemptions awarded through the RPL process for Credit Transfer and RPCL will result in a reduction on the standard fee charged for a full programme.
For example, if one 10 credit module on a full time Undergraduate programme is exempt due to an RPL claim, a reduction of the fee for that module e.g.
£750, is taken off the full programme fees.
Any queries concerning fee exemptions should be directed to Admissions in the first instance.
Any applicant who has studied international qualifications comparable to Foundation Degree, Certificate of Higher Education (CertHE), Higher National Diploma (HND) or modules of an undergraduate (UG) or postgraduate (PG) degree is required to obtain a statement of comparability from UK NARIC.
For further information please refer to https://www.enic.org.uk/individuals .
Once a statement of comparability is received, this can be sent with your application to the University's International Office.
Please refer to www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/international for guidance concerning applying.
Any queries concerning your qualifications can also be referred to the International Office at intadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Please refer to school contact list below where advice is needed concerning what subject your learning/experience is relevant to:
To access a list of frequently asked questions, please click here .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/armed-forces-personnel:
Students who have served in the UK Armed Forces as a Regular or Reservist may find there are unique challenges involved in applying to higher education.
We are committed to supporting ex-forces servicemen/women and their dependants, to ensure that no member of the Armed Forces community faces disadvantage in Higher Education.
Knowing about your circumstances may also help admissions staff to take your achievements into account and gain a better understanding of these achievements and potential in context.
It won't reflect negatively on your application or academic ability, but instead will enable us to form a more complete picture of you as an individual and identify those applicants who we think have the potential to succeed.
Undergraduate applicants may be eligible to receive a contextualised offer under this scheme.
Please see our Contextual Admissions Policy for more information.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is proud to have signed the Armed Forces Covenant .
A pledge that together we acknowledge and understand that those who serve or have served in the Armed Forces, and their families, should be treated with fairness and respect in the communities, economy and society they serve with their lives.
ELCAS is a scheme run by the Ministry of Defence to provide ​financial support to armed forces personnel (both serving and service leavers) to study a course at university, which is of direct benefit to the service, and which leads to personal and professional development.
If you are in your qualifying resettlement phase you may be eligible to claim under the Joint Funding Initiative Publicly Funded Further Education/Higher Education (PFFE/HE).
Information can be found at the following: http://www.enhancedlearningcredits.com/service-leaver/claiming-publicly-leaver
If you meet the eligibility criteria of the ELCAS scheme, you will need to complete the application process at least five weeks before the start of the course, all details concerning this are on the ELCAS website: https://www.enhancedlearningcredits.com/
Please note you will need our Learning Provider’s Reference Number which is 1294 for your application.
If you are applying via UCAS and you are from a UK Armed Forces family, you can simply select ‘yes’ from the drop-down box in the question that asks about this in the ‘More about me’ section of the application.
Any queries concerning completion of the Obligations of Learner Providers form can be directed to Admissions on 02920 416010 or askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk​ .
Any further information concerning the scheme can be obtained from contacting our Finance Department on 029 2041 6083.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/fee-status-assessment:
Cardiff Metropolitan University uses the information that you provide in your application form to determine the level of fees you will be charged for your chosen course.
We call this your Fee Status and we classify students as either Home or International.
This process applies to all applicants for our main campus programmes as well as our franchise partners .
The rules about who pays ‘home’ fees for higher education courses in Wales are set by the Welsh Government.
The regulations can be difficult to understand, so the United Kingdom Council for International Students Affairs (UKCISA) has developed a comprehensive guide to help applicants and fee assessors interpret the legislation.
At Cardiff Metropolitan University, your fee status is determined by a member of the Admissions Team with relevant expertise, following the UKCISA guidelines.
Each university has some discretion in how the guidelines are applied, meaning fee status decisions can vary between institutions.
We conduct our own independent assessment and do not consider decisions made by other universities.
Our fee status decision applies solely to your specific application to Cardiff Metropolitan University and does not affect your classification with the Student Loans Company or any other institution.
Your fee status is usually determined based on the information provided in your formal application.
We cannot assess your fee status before receiving a formal application, but you can visit the UKCISA website for further guidance on your likely classification.
If additional information is required to accurately determine your fee status, we will request a completed Fee Status Assessment Form along with supporting documents.
This form should be completed and returned promptly, usually within two weeks, to the specified email address.
Failure to return the form and documentation within the given timeframe may result in the withdrawal of your application.
We aim to review completed Fee Status Assessment Forms within 10 working days, although this may take longer during peak periods.
Complex cases may require additional time to ensure an accurate decision is made.
If the form is incomplete or supporting documentation is missing, we may need to contact you for clarification.
This may delay the fee status decision and could also prevent us from communicating the academic outcome of your application.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is not responsible for any missed academic or application deadlines resulting from delays in fee status assessment.
If you disagree with the fee status decision, you may submit an appeal, with supporting evidence, within 14 days of the decision or before enrolling on your course, whichever comes first.
Appeals should be sent by email to the Admissions Manager.
After enrolment, appeals will only be considered in exceptional circumstances, such as if you are granted refugee status or UK citizenship.
Any adjustments to your fee status will only apply to the next academic year and are at the discretion of the Head of Admissions.
You should inform the Head of Admissions if your circumstances change.
The University reserves the right to amend a fee status immediately if new information emerges that affects your classification.
Asylum seekers are generally classified as international students for fee purposes due to their temporary residency status.
However, Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to supporting access to higher education.
Therefore, asylum seekers who have not received a scholarship will be charged the same fees as home students rather than the higher international rate.
Please note that obtaining a new nationality, such as British citizenship, may affect your fee status or eligibility for Student Support.
If you or a family member with Refugee Status are considering applying for citizenship, please be aware of the potential impact on your fee status.
When requested, you may need to provide one or more of the following documents to support your fee status assessment:
Proof of nationality:
Proof of immigration status:
Proof of relationship to a relevant family member:
Evidence of temporary absence (if applicable):

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/nhs-wales-bursary-scheme:
Cardiff Met currently provides Healthcare programmes that have been commissioned by Health Education Improvement Wales (HEIW).
If you are planning to study one of our eligible Healthcare programmes you have two funding options available to you.
You may have the option of accessing funding via the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme or standard funding (via Student Finance Wales/ England/ Northern Ireland).
Applicants should be aware that the amount of funding available from the NHS Bursary Scheme and the Standard Funding Option will differ.
You will need to decide which is the best option for you.
If you have any queries about the funding available to you, or are unsure which is best, you can contact the Money Advice Team for further guidance on financeadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
NWSSP Student Awards Services implements the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme, which provides funding for a range of Health education courses in Wales.
The funding available through this scheme includes:
Details of how your award is calculated can be found here NHS BURSARIES (MEANS TESTED) .
You can find further details on How do I apply for a bursary?
- NHS Wales Shared Services Partnership
You can also apply for a reduced rate maintenance loan from your funding authority (i.e., Student Finance Wales/ England/ Northern Ireland).
Please note that under the scheme:
Please note that you will need to re-apply annually for your NHS Bursary to be funded for each year of study.
Full Terms and Conditions are available here: ​ nwssp.nhs.wales/ourservices/student-awards-services/student-awards-services-documents/sas-general-documents/nhs-wales-bursary-terms-and-conditions/
You can apply for support from your funding authority (i.e., Student Finance Wales/ England/ Northern Ireland) for your tuition fees and living costs.
If eligible you can also apply for Dependents Grants.
Further information can be found via the following links:
If you decide to access the NHS Wales Bursary Scheme you will agree to work in Wales for:
Individuals who do not feel they can commit to this period of employment will not be eligible to receive the Bursary, however you will still be able to study in Wales and will be able to access Student Finance to study with Cardiff Met.
If you want to change your funding option from NHS Wales Bursary Scheme to Student Finance, you need to opt-out of the Scheme within 10 weeks of beginning your programme.
You must inform the School of Sport and Health Sciences CSSHSLTSE@cardiffmet.ac.uk and you will need to login to your NWSSP account and initiate the opt out process, once confirmed you will be issued with an opt-out code that you are required to send to your funding authority.
After 10 weeks students cannot normally change their funding route, exceptional cases will be considered through an appeals mechanism.
Please contact the School of Sport and Health Sciences CSSHSLTSE@cardiffmet.ac.uk to discuss the appeals process and/or the Money Advice Team for further guidance about funding available to you on financeadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Our intake numbers are decided by the NHS in Wales, which take into consideration professional requirements.
In order to gain a place on the course and therefore an allocated placement, the offer is also dependant on academic achievement and satisfying all entry requirements associated with the programmes.
Due to the way placements are allocated, all offer conditions for undergraduate courses must be met by Friday 13th August.
Placement numbers are limited for NHS programmes.
Whilst we make every effort to limit the number of offers to minimise the risk of disappointment of not gaining a place, occasionally the number of students achieving the conditions for entry exceeds the number of placements available.
Should this situation arise, Cardiff Met will operate a points system based on academic achievement and/or interview scores as well as a Firm reply.
Unfortunately, for those applicants who choose Cardiff Met as their Insurance choice, we cannot guarantee a place.
In exceptional circumstances, the Programme Director may also offer a guaranteed place for the following year.
Due to the different application system for Postgraduate Dietetics, the number of offers made will reflect the allocation of placements available.
If you are considering a professional career in health care and would like to know more about the financial support you will get during your training, then please contact:
Student Awards Services 4th Floor, Companies House Crown Way Cardiff CF14 3UB
Bursary Enquiries - Tel: 02920 905380
Childcare Enquiries - Tel: 02920 905381
Email: abm.sas@wales.nhs.uk
Websites:
The NHS support package from Cardiff Met is designed to prepare students enrolled on NHS supported courses for study, and to support them throughout their studies.
Award Package
The award is centered around study support.
There will be study skills exercises, tutoring, mentorship and peer support on offer, among other benefits.
If eligible, you will also be given access to a loaned computer for the duration of the programme.
Eligibility
We will automatically assess you for the support package if you meet all the following criteria:
You must be classed as a Home student for fee paying purposes
You must be a new Cardiff Metropolitan University student, applying through UCAS and entering a full-time NHS supported undergraduate course at Year One, starting in 2024.
Your permanent address must be in one of the 10% most deprived areas of Wales as defined by the Welsh Index of Multiple Deprivation 2019 (WIMD).
Please refer to the Terms and Conditions .
If awarded the NHS Support package, you will be notified via email in advance of the course start date.
If you have any queries, please email scholarship@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
The Welsh Health Minister has a responsibility for NHS Wales workforce planning and for the training and development of healthcare professionals in Wales.
As part of that responsibility, the University will be required to provide information on your progress during your studies.
For those students who are not supported by the NHS Wales Bursary scheme, this information is anonymised as part of a statistical report which includes details relating to your progression in your studies and the outcomes that you achieve.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/contextual-admissions-policy:
​​​​Cardiff Met is keen to encourage students from a wide range of backgrounds to participate in higher education and use contextualised admissions in order to make reduced offers​.
Contextual admissions is where information provided on the UCAS application and additional data collected as part of the admissions process allows the recognition of an applicant’s achievements and identifies the potential to succeed in the context of background and experience.
The aim of using this information is to help us to build a more rounded view of an applicant’s achievement and potential.
It allows us to use a range of applicant information in addition to prior attainment and judge applications fairly on merit.​
The following contextual indicators will be used:
The UCAS Multiple Equality Measure (MEM) will also be used which considers:
Not all information in relation to you and your life experiences are collected on the UCAS application.
However, Cardiff Met recognises that other information can help us identify your potential to succeed if you have not had the same opportunities as other applicants.
If you are not able to meet the entry requirements published on our website and have other personal circumstances that have negatively impacted on your post 16 studies e.g., disability, estranged student from your parents, are a refugee or asylum seeker.
Please inform us of these circumstances by completing our contextual admissions application form.
The information you provide as part of your UCAS application is used so you will not have to do anything.
However, it is important that you indicate on your application if you have care experience and if members of your family have not participated in Higher Education.
If you are identified as meeting the specified criteria and are offered a place, you will receive an adjusted conditional offer.
Typically, this will be one grade (or the equivalent in points) below the published standard entry requirements.
Course specific conditions will still need to be met, e.g., if the course requires a minimum grade within a specific subject.
Alternatively information will be considered once results are received, resulting in your place being confirmed with less than the advertised published entry requirements.
An alternative programme of study, or foundation year may also be offered if a place cannot be offered on an applicant’s original choice.
The University can only use data supplied at the time of application.
Where no data is provided, the contextual admissions policy will not be applied.
The University is committed to widening access and providing opportunities to students from disadvantaged backgrounds, however it is not in the interests of the University or the applicant to admit students who do not have the full potential to succeed.
We will therefore monitor students who have been admitted on this basis and monitor the impact of the implementation of the policy.
The University also recognises that we are relying on readily available data to make contextual admissions decisions and we will evaluate the reliability of this data regularly.
Applicants admitted on a contextual confirmation decision will have access to the same support services as all other students.
Applicants for NHS programmes whose permanent address is in one of the 10% most deprived areas of Wales, as defined by the Welsh Index of Multiple Deprivation 2019 (WIMD), may receive additional study support.
Please refer to our NHS Study Support Bursary.
Your UCAS application form will let us know most of your circumstances.
However, if you have additional personal information, including extenuating circumstances, we encourage you to contact askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Please check the following Criteria Checker , which asks you to enter your postcode.
If you did not complete the relevant information stipulated above as part of your UCAS application, you have another opportunity to provide this information via our application form.
If your circumstances have changed since applying, you can provide any additional information by emailing askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
If you have other personal information or extenuating circumstances that have affected your achievement of your qualifications, please complete the following application form to inform us of any additional information.
All applicants are treated on an individual basis, considering all information provided so offers may differ depending on personal circumstances.
If you wish to discuss your own offer, please contact us at askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Yes, all courses are included as part of the Contextual Admissions Policy.
The Contextual Admissions Policy only applies to applicants with Home fee status .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/admissions-policy:
Cardiff Metropolitan University focuses on ‘Belonging and Becoming’, enabling our students, staff and partners to fulfil their life chances and those of the communities they belong to.
As an institution we focus on values, outstanding learning experiences that equip students for life, and research and innovation with purposeful impact and global research.
Cardiff Metropolitan University provides an innovative educational environment that supports to achieve their personal and professional ambition, by identifying and linking their learning from both curricular and co-curricular activities.​
Cardiff Metropolitan University supports admissions processes that are fair and transparent and protect ​applicants’ interests.
The purpose of the Admissions Policy is to explain the admissions process of the University.
Cardiff Metropolitan University seeks to accept all people who ​would benefit from higher education.
Applications are considered on their individual merits, and will take into account a wide range of formal qualifications as well as any relevant work experience.
Cardiff Metropolitan University values diversity and encourages a wider student population by welcoming applications from all those interested in higher education.
We welcome applications from all, irrespective of age, disability or special needs, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion and belief, sex or sexual orientation.
This information is set out in our Equality and Diversity Policy .
We follow the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA - www.qaa.ac.uk/ ) code of practice on Recruitment and Admissions when undertaking admissions procedures and guidance from the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) and the sector.
We are also committed to the five core principles of fair admissions as defined in the Schwartz Report 2014: An admissions system based on transparency, selection based on applicants’ achievements and potential, adopting assessment methods that are reliable and valid, minimising barriers to entry, and professional in every respect and underpinned by structures and processes.
All applications received by the appropriate UCAS and Direct Course Application deadlines of the year of entry are given equal consideration.
Applications received beyond these dates are considered at the discretion of the University, dependant on availability of places.
Responsibility for the University Admissions policy lies with the Recruitment and Admissions Strategy Group and is annually reviewed.
The Director of Marketing, Communications and Student Recruitment will recommend any policy changes to Academic Board for approval.​
The Admissions Policy will be subject to ongoing review and will be updated and published for the new application cycle in September.
The policy covers all applications to all taught programmes on Cardiff Metropolitan campuses as well as home franchised programmes when applying through UCAS and related to entry in the academic year 25/26.
Cardiff Metropolitan University operates a centralised admissions procedure for the majority of its programmes, under which decisions are made by admissions staff, based on set criteria provided by admission programme tutors within academic schools.
This is not suitable for all programmes or programmes that require interview, so in these cases decisions are made solely by admission programme tutors.
The admissions unit before sending down applications to admission tutors carry out an initial sift to ensure that applicants have the relevant entry requirements.
All arrangements for interviews are made within the admissions unit and its aim is to be as accommodating as possible.
Applications for franchised courses are considered by the relevant institution.
All procedures in relation to the processing of offers are made by the unit and all correspondence is sent from the department concerning admission.
The unit deals with all enquiries including feedback for unsuccessful applicants and carries out all confirmation and clearing procedures.
For further information concerning feedback please refer to the Feedback Policy in the policies section below.
Application and Enrolment targets are set by the Planning Department and Schools.
Any queries in relation to the admission process can be raised with members of the Admissions Team by e-mailing askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk​
All personal data requested and held by the University through the application process will be used in accordance with Data Protection Principles at all times, as highlighted within the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and our internal Data Protection, Data Management and Governance, Records Management, Information Security, and IT Acceptable Use policies.
If you require more information on these policies please contact dataprotection@cardiffmet.ac.uk​ .
The University will only correspond with the applicant about an application or decision, unless the applicant is under 18 and has provided consent to the University to correspond with a nominated contact (family member, agent, representative).
Cardiff Metropolitan University wishes to ensure that information provided to applicants about courses, facilities, entry requirements and procedures are as detailed and accurate as possible.
It also aims to ensure that all staff are continually trained in admissions procedures and are as polite and helpful as possible.
Cardiff Metropolitan University regularly reviews and monitors all matters relating to student admissions to ensure that the process is as fair and transparent as possible through both market research and feedback.
Applications for full time undergraduate courses and full time postgraduate teacher training are made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) .
Cardiff Metropolitan University processes its applications according to UCAS’ systems and procedures.
Applications for our part-time, postgraduate, research and apprenticeship courses (excluding postgraduate teacher training) are made directly to Cardiff Metropolitan University through the Self Service system.
Please refer to the Apprenticeships Admissions Policy within the Policies Section below for specific information for those applying to Apprenticeship courses, as well as the Admissions Policy.
Cardiff Met graduates progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate are expected to reapply through Cardiff Met’s direct Self Service application system.
Information on the application needs to be completed fully, so that Admissions are made aware of any updates to information and changes in circumstances.
5.1 Overseas Fee Paying Applicants
International applicants can apply through UCAS or directly to Cardiff Met through the online applications at International Students - How to Apply for Foundation and Undergraduate courses.
For Postgraduate and Research courses applicants must apply direct at International Students - How to Apply .
5.2 Franchise Applicants
Cardiff Met has a number of courses run in partnership with local colleges.
These courses are listed both on UCAS and our course pages and applicants can apply through UCAS or directly to the college.
5.3 Transfers from other Universities and from within Cardiff Met
Cardiff Met considers transfers to all years from other Universities as long as the entry requirements, are met for the chosen course.
This however may not include those courses which have professional accreditation or placements if the course undertaken previously does not have the accreditation or placements.
Applicants applying from another University need to submit an application through UCAS.
International applicants need to apply through International Students - How to Apply .
Proof of current studies are welcome to be sent to Admissions so that an assessment about suitability can be made, before an application is submitted.
Please refer to section 20, on Recognition of Prior Learning for information on entry to years 2 and 3.
Current Cardiff Met students wishing to transfer to another course, need to contact the admissions course tutor and do not need to reapply through Admissions.
If the transfer is agreed the transfer process will need to be completed by your current course tutor.
The Admissions Cycle runs from September to October and generally consists of the following actions.
Entry requirements for courses are published on the Cardiff Metropolitan University website as well as UCAS and the Universities prospectus.
Entry criteria and procedures for selection are followed consistently and professionally by University staff involved in the admissions process.
Applications however are considered on an individual basis considering all available information to ensure individual circumstances are taken into account, and offers can vary taking into account a range of experiences and expertise.
Guidance for international qualifications is taken from staff within our Regional Officers, Recruitment Officers and UK NARIC Home Page ( ecctis.com ).
For undergraduate applicants the University understands that predicted grades are an estimate.
We will consider applicants with predicted grades that fall below the published entry criteria taking all the information on the application into consideration​​.
Previous study, work experience and training can also count as credit towards your programme of study, this is known as Recognising Prior Learning (RPL) and please refer to the section on Prior Learning.
We encourage students of all ages and from all backgrounds to study with us and know that significant achievement can be obtained through work or private study.
The University guarantees not to change its entry requirements published on course pages on Cardiff Met’s website and UCAS for courses during an Admissions cycle from September to September.
Entry requirements however may change for undergraduate applicants applying through clearing.​
Entry requirements are reviewed annually by the Recruitment and Admissions Strategy Group which includes input from Academic Schools, Admissions and Planning.
Any changes to entry requirements are updated in the September before the year of entry.​
Each application is considered on an individual basis, based on the information provided as part of the application form.
Offer criteria generally includes:
Course pages on our website list entry requirements with examples of qualifications, including any subject specific requirements.
Applicants holding qualifications which are not specified on our website may contact Admissions prior to application to ask if these qualifications meet the entry requirements.
For less commonly encountered qualifications this will be judged on a case-by-case basis in consultation with the admissions course tutor.
The University reserves the right to exercise academic judgment and discretion when assessing prior attainment.
The Admissions cycle start in September and runs through to October the following year.
Most applications for Home students will be submitted by the end of January through UCAS, but late applications can be submitted from February until the end of the main cycle at the end of June.
Clearing applications are submitted from the beginning of July until September.
Please refer to UCAS for cycle dates.
The following specifies how particular types of applications will be managed by the University during the admissions cycle.
9.1 UCAS Applications
Full time undergraduate applicants are required to submit their applications by the dates stipulated by UCAS.
Applications received by the UCAS early equal consideration date at the end of January, will receive full and equal consideration.
Applications received after this date are welcome and will be considered as long as the course has vacancies.
Once a course has filled its places UCAS will be informed and updated so no more applications can be received.
When there are vacancies we are happy to consider applications after deadlines, prior to the 30th of June.
After this date applicants will need to apply through clearing and check on UCAS or on Cardiff Met’s web pages that courses are available in Clearing.
9.2 Direct Applications
The deadline for applying for courses is normally 4 weeks before the start date or 12 weeks if a visa is required.
We recommend however, that you apply as early as possible as possible as courses may close due to sufficient application numbers.
There are however some courses which have earlier deadlines which are shown on course pages on the University’s web site..
Deadlines are also shown for International applicants for those who may require a visa which can take more than 3 months.
If a visa is required to study it is important that you allow sufficient time for both the application and visa process.
Courses that have deadlines or reach capacity will be shown on course pages on the University’s website.
These courses will also not show on the direct application systems for applications to be submitted.
The University reserves the right to close courses for application or to offer an alternative choice or deferred place where a course reaches capacity.
The University also reserves the right to operate waiting lists, for applicants made unsuccessful who may be reconsidered if places become available.
For applicants that apply late, after the end of June in the Admissions cycle the University has the right to offer an alternative choice or deferred places if f there is not sufficient time to process all the requirements for the course by the start date.
Applicants who wish to transfer from another course at Cardiff Met or from another University also need to ensure that course deadlines are adhered too.
9.3 Deferred Entry
Applicants may apply and request to defer their entry, but there is no automatic right to defer as it is at the discretion of the University.
Normally deferred entry is granted for one year, but this is dependent on the course applied for.
Certain professionally accredited courses do not accept deferral, due to changes each year in allocated numbers and course requirements.
If a request for deferral is required after applying applicants will need to contact the Admissions unit to request this informing of the reason for the deferral.
Deferred places can only be confirmed for applicants holding an unconditional firm place.
UCAS applicants who receive a deferred offer will need to meet the conditions of their offer either by the 31st of August or the 7th of September and will be informed of this in communications from the University.
9.4 Incomplete Applications
All sections of the application form should be completed in line with guidance available on the UCAS website and the University’s direct application form, as well as the University’s website section on Advice for Applicants.
The University reserves the right to make incomplete applications unsuccessful.
Applicants are welcome to seek advice on completing the application form from the admissions team and admissions tutors prior to submitting an application.
9.5 Making more than one application in the same admissions cycle and re- application
Applicants applying through UCAS will have 5 choices to use as part of the application process.
Applicants may apply for more than one course during the same application cycle when applying direct to the University.
Re-application is considered for the majority of courses at Cardiff Met and where this is not possible this will be specified on feedback provided.
Applicants who have been unsuccessful in securing a place should consider any feedback provided before re-applying for the same course.
The University reserves the right to refer to information from previously submitted applications, in line with the Universities data retention policy, when considering re-applications.
Once an application is received it will be considered by the University as outlined in section 9.0 above How We Consider Applications and When to Apply, and a decision will be made to make applicants an offer.
All offer/s made by Cardiff Met are dependent on the receipt of a full and complete application that meets the admissions criteria outlined on course pages and UCAS.
10.1 Undergraduate Offers
Our aim is to process standard undergraduate offers within 48 hours which increases to a week at busy periods.
Non-standard and those requiring interview can take longer, ranging from 2 or 3 weeks or longer dependant on availability for interview.
Applications which are incomplete or missing evidence may also extend beyond the typical turnaround times.​
Conditional undergraduate offers will usually be communicated to applicants in the form of UCAS Tariff Points.
For International applicants and those taking qualifications that are not included in the Tariff, offers will be expressed in appropriate equivalence.
10.2 Postgraduate Offers
Postgraduate offers are generally processed within a week of receipt, as long as all information is provided as part of the application.
Where additional information is required turnaround times will differ.
Courses that require interview also have an increased turnaround period.
10.3 Research Offers
The university will make an offer of for a research degree when it can provide supervision arrangements in the applicant’s area of research.
10.4 Alternative Offers
The university may offer a place on alternative courses at point of offer and/or confirmation stages for applicants who do not meet the entry requirements.
Alternative offers are made when an applicant does not meet the requirements of their original choice but meets the requirements of an alternative choice, which the University deems appropriate from the information provided at application.
If applicants do not wish to receive the alternative offer they are not obliged to accept the change and can decline the offer made.
10.5 Offer Errors
Cardiff Met endeavours in its Admissions process and procedures to ensure that the offer making process is correct.
However, rarely, errors will occur due to system failure or human error.
When an error has been in relation to an applicant’s offer the University reserves the right to amend this or offer an alternative where possible when
The University will inform the applicant with details of the error as soon as possible and any actions being taken as a result of the error.
Applicants will receive confirmation of receipt of their application either at point of submitting the application or once received into our student system from UCAS.
Applications are reviewed and decisions are communicated to applicants throughout the admissions cycle.
Decisions for those applicants applying through UCAS are sent to UCAS from the Universities admissions system and applicants are informed of these through the UCAS Hub.
Decisions for those applying directly to the University are processed through the Universities admissions systems.
Applicants receive decisions either through the Admissions system and offer e-mail/letter.
International applicant’s decisions are communicated via e-mail.
Communications, including decision outcomes, are sent to all applicants via e-mail to provide information and support through the Admissions cycle.
These include the Universities terms and conditions, fees policy, admissions policy, complaints policy and the Student Handbook.​
Interviews are not normally required as part of the admissions process.
However, interviews are required for courses where professional requirements warrant this e.g.
Teacher Training and NHS courses.
The majority of Art and Design courses also require applicants to attend interview in order to demonstrate a portfolio and evidence suitability for the course.
Applicants with non-standard qualifications, or mature applicants who do not meet the standard entry requirements may also be invited to attend interview in order to demonstrate the potential to succeed.
Please refer to section 8.0 above in relation to Selection.
Failure to attend for interview will normally result in the application being withdrawn, unless Admissions are informed that the date of interview is not suitable.
It is recognised that there may be dates when applicants are not available for interview and in these cases the University will make reasonable efforts to offer an alternative date.
Further information on interviews is available on our Advice for Applicants web pages.
Applicants will be provided with further information in the offer communication received from the University how to accept an offer of a place.
UCAS applicants will need to accept their offer on the UCAS hub.
Applicants applying through UCAS accept 1 of their 5 choices as Firm (1st choice) and 1 as Insurance (2nd choice).
For some courses including Health and Teacher Training, the number of places is restricted and can fill up quickly so if an insurance choice is made you may not be guaranteed a place.
This does depend on numbers allocated by professional bodies and the number of applications received so applicants should contact Admissions with any queries.
All applicants who are offered a place and firmly accept will be sent information, with the aim of supporting and guiding them through the Acceptance stage of the Admissions cycle.
This will include the Universities terms and conditions, fees policy, admissions policy, complaints policy and the Student Handbook, as well as information on enrolment, starting at the University and transition activities.
Direct International offer holders will be expected to pay an advanced fee payment/deposit within the notified deadlines, outlined on the offer communications to accept and confirm their place.
Unsuccessful applicants are provided with generic feedback and can request additional feedback by contacting the Admissions unit.
The University will normally only provide feedback, due data protection legislation to applicants, unless notified of a nominated contact.
Requests for feedback can be made by e-mail to askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk or by telephoning the Admissions unit.
For further information please refer to Cardiff Met’s feedback policy linked in the Policies section below.
Once an offer is accepted an applicant will still need to meet any conditions specified in the universities offer of a place, unless unconditional offers are made with no non academic requirements.
In the main, this will require the applicant achieving the appropriate marks/grades, or qualifications to meet the selection criteria for the course.
For applicants applying through UCAS examination results are received for a range of examination results, the list of which can be found at UCAS - How Your Exam Results Get To Universities And Colleges .
All other qualifications, and for those applicants applying directly to the University, need to be sent to the Admissions teams as soon as possible after they have been received.
Those offers that include non-academic conditions such as a DBS, Occupational Health Check , Experience, will need to be met before applicants are accepted and allowed to enrol.
Applicants are informed if they meet or do not meet the terms of their offer.
Applicants who do not meet all the conditions may still be accepted into their initial choice if there are places on the course, and if academic reconsideration deems that the overall qualities and achievement of the applicant is appropriate.
Alternative offers may also be made if an applicant’s initial choice cannot be accepted.​
All offers made by Cardiff Metropolitan University are subject to proving that the qualifications entered on the application are verified and that applicants have achieved the results needed to meet the terms of the offer so that applicants can be enrolled as students and matriculated with the University.
International students requiring a UKVI Student visa may also be subject to immigration checks and will be informed of this on offer communications.
All applicants are required to provide evidence of their ​English Language competence.
This is usually an approved English Language qualification at the appropriate level which forms part of the conditions of an offer.​
Non-UK applicants are required to provide evidence of a sufficient proficiency in English Language, which needs to be provided before the start of the course.
Details can be found on our www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/international/study/applying/Pages/English-Language-Requirements.aspx pages.
For some countries, we can accept high school English qualifications, supported by either a Cardiff Met English interview (If Undergraduate excluding HND students who require SELT) OR a letter of attestation that confirms the student studied and was taught through the medium of English (Postgraduate).
Information is detailed on the relevant country pages.
Applicants who do not have the required level of English Language at time of application will be asked for English as a condition of their offer, and for entry to the University.
All applicants who have qualifications/transcript which are not English may be required to provide notarised translations into English or Welsh.
UK Visas and Immigration requires a fully-certified original translation for each document you provide that is not in English.
If your translation does not meet all the requirements, you must have a new translation made.
Your visa application can be refused if the translation does not meet the requirements.
Applicants resitting examinations are welcome to apply for our courses.
Undergraduate and PGCE teacher training applicants who are made a conditional offer, and are awaiting results from a re-mark or appeal, will be accepted and offered a place, provided the terms of the offer are met by the 31st of August.
For direct applications including postgraduate and part time, the University is normally able to consider applicants awaiting on appeals and re-marks until the week before the start of the course.
International applicants need to meet the conditions deadline, detailed on offer communication as well as Cardiff Met’s website.
Applicants requiring a student visa will need to ensure that there is sufficient time for this to be issued.
It is the responsibly of applicants to inform the Admissions unit of the outcome of the appeal or re-mark.
Cardiff Met recognises that previous study, training and experience gained through work or volunteering are examples of activities that may count towards your programme of study and is known as Recognising of Prior Learning.​
Applicants wishing to claim credit for prior learning are asked to review our information on the Recognising Prior Learning page.
If qualifications or modules of an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at another university has been achieved by applicants, we can consider these for module exemption or direct entry into a year or level of entry.
The exemption allowed will be dependant on what has been achieved and its relevance to the course applied for.
This process is called Credit Transfer and applicants wishing to apply for this need to apply through the standard routes and put on their application their proposed point of entry.
Transcripts for the obtained credit (studies) needs to be provided so this can be sent to the relevant admissions programme tutor to determine if use can be made of a the credit transfer.
Applicants are normally required to provide an academic reference/letter of recommendation.
If a reference/letter of recommendation is not required this will not be included as part of the information required at application.
Certain courses also require additional references/letters of recommendation and this will be stipulated on our entry criteria and the Universities direct application system called self service.
A reference/letter of recommendation will need to evidence the details of the referee and be signed and dated.
References/letters of recommendations for undergraduate applicants are normally required from an applicant’s school/college or previous education establishment.
Postgraduate applicant’s references will normally be required to provide a reference from their university or place of study.
Where an applicant has not been in education for more than five years a reference/letter of recommendation from an employer may be used at the University’s discretion.
Cardiff Met is an adult environment where students are normally age 18 or over.
On the occasions that the University admits students who are under the age of 18 at the start of their course, they will receive support from a mentor, but will not receive the level of supervision they would probably receive in a school.
The University recognises that anyone aged under 18 years is legally a child and that students under 18 have different needs in relation to the support and wellbeing.
An Under 18's policy is in place which stipulates what is expected from student and the support that will be put in place.
Students are expected to assume adult levels of responsibility and it is important that applicants and their parents/guardians understand this before starting at Cardiff Met.
Undergraduate students aged 21 years and over in the year of entry are deemed as mature students.
We welcome applicants from this group of students who will be given equal consideration.
‘Contextualised Admissions’ is a term used by the University to describe a situation where additional information, e.g., where an applicant lives and school attended, enables the University to consider the circumstances that have affected educational achievement.
The aim of using this information is to help build a more rounded view of an applicant’s achievement and potential.
The University operates a contextualised offer scheme considering a number of contextual indicators and will make a reduced offer when applicants meet these indicators.
There is no need to apply for a contextualised offer as information provided as part of your UCAS application will be considered, but it is important that this is completed fully.
Examples of contextualised offers are detailed on course pages on Cardiff Met’s website and please refer to the Contextualised Admissions Policy on the website.
Extenuating circumstances is a term used by the University to describe a medical or personal nature significantly affecting an applicant during a relevant period of time and or during an assessment/examination period.
Cardiff Met considers extenuating and personal circumstances as part of its Contextualised Admissions Policy and applicants can send information to askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .​
Applicants should include: information and evidence of the nature of the extenuating circumstances; specify which elements of study were impacted; and reasons why it was not possible to report these to the relevant examination board.
Applicants can also use their personal statement to make the University aware of extenuating circumstances.
Applicants references can also detail information that is deemed appropriate for consideration.
Any supplementary documents should be submitted to Admissions including the applicant’s full name and UCAS or Student number.​
Information will be considered as part of either the decision making or confirmation process and the University reserves the right to request further information if felt necessary.
If deemed necessary and with the applicants permission relevant third parties will be contacted such as the academic intuition, examination body and doctor.
Offers of a place will be made on the basis of academic merit and potential and while circumstances will be considered as part of a holistic assessment they will not necessarily lead to an offer of a place or interview.
It is expected that circumstances affecting assessment/examinations would have been considered with the relevant examination board before results are awarded and we are unable to take account of extenuating circumstances where these have already been reported.
Cardiff Met is committed to equal opportunity for all students, aiming to provide an inclusive and accessible environment, making reasonable adjustments to support applicants with disabilities.
We encourage disclosure of any disability, early in the admissions cycle so that we can make reasonable adjustments.
Applications for those disclosing a disability are considered in the same way as any other applicant, with the decision being made upon the applicant’s academic merit and potential.
Cardiff Met understands that accessing education after being convicted of a criminal offence can be an important part of gaining the skills, knowledge and qualifications to move on with life and employment.
Having a criminal conviction does not bar an applicant automatically from enrolling on a course at Cardiff Met, but may restrict entry for certain courses which could bring an applicant into contact with children or vulnerable adults, dependant on the conviction.
For these courses where a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check is required, this is stipulated on the entry requirements section of course pages on Cardiff Met’s website, as well as on UCAS for undergraduate courses.
Offer conditions will also state where a DBS check is required.
Applicants (apart from those international applicants requiring a Visa) are not asked to disclose any unspent criminal convictions as part of the application process, but are asked to inform us if you are bound by restrictions or have probation requirements to fulfil.
This ensures the University can provide appropriate support and assistance.
Applicants who wish to withdraw or cancel their application to study at Cardiff Met, once they have accepted a place, may do this through UCAS within 14 days of replying to offers.
After this period and for direct applicants, Cardiff Met's cancellation form can be completed.
Cardiff Met has a fair and transparent policy in relation to fees charged to students, which includes tuition fees and additional course related costs.
All fees and fee policies are reviewed annually.
Further information can be found at Student Finance & Tuition Fees .
Applicants are classed as Home or International for fee paying purposes.
The Welsh Government undertakes an annual review of ‘Home’ undergraduate fees for Universities in Wales, in relation to increases to fees.
Should inflationary increases be implemented these would be for all fees that apply to both new and continuing undergraduate students with Home fee status.
Home fee status considers the following and information on fee assessment is provided in section 29, below.
The Universities Fee and Access plan, approved by Higher Education Founding Council Wakes, sets out the fees charged and commitment to equality to opportunity and promotion of Higher Education.
Further information can be found at Fees and Finance Fee Plans .
Cardiff Met has a policy of charging a deposit prior to admissions for overseas paying applicants.
Those applicants requiring a visa to study in the UK will be required to pay a deposit as a condition of the release of their Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS).
Deposits can be refunded for applicants meeting certain circumstances that are not able to enrol and further information can be found at the following Applying to Cardiff Met - Refund Terms and Conditions .
The University does however reserve the right to withdraw an offer at any stage if it is not satisfied that all requirements for entry are met.
In the event that an offer is withdrawn, or upon an applicant not being able to enrol at the University, the University may withhold a proportion of the deposit, tuition fees already paid.​
If post enrolment students withdraw from a course, the University is obliged to report any Student Visa holder to the UKVI.
International students require a Student Visa entry clearance to be able to study in the United Kingdom.
Information on Visas and coming to the UK, as well Cardiff Met’s Student Visa Compliance Policy is available on the University’s Policy Hub.
An applicant’s fee status is determined by Admissions staff in line with UKCISA guidelines.
Where the fee status of applicants is not clear from the information provided on the application, additional information will need to be provided so that a fee assessment can be undertaken.
All applicants have the right to appeal a fee status if they disagree with their fee status classification and have reasonable grounds for doing so.
An appeal can be made within three months of the outcome or up until the point of enrolment whichever comes first.
The appeal should be made to the Admissions Manager by e-mailing askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Any changes to fee status after enrolment are at the discretion of the Head of Admissions and will not be processed after enrolment onto a programme.
The University reserves to right to amend a fee status immediately, if further information questioning the fee status comes to light.
Further information on Cardiff Met’s fee status assessment can be found at the Fee Status Assessment page.
Cardiff Met offers a number of bursary and scholarships.
These include Study Life Award, Progression Award, Carers Bursary, Care Levers and Estranged Students Bursary, Performance and Elite Sports Scholarships, Sanctuary Award and Postgraduate Taught Masters Incentivisation Bursary.
Cardiff Met also offers an alumni discount to students who have previously studying an undergraduate course at the university.
Further information on bursaries and scholarships is available from Cardiff Metropolitan’s bursary and scholarship pages.
Most schemes to do not require an application as the information provided as part of your application fulfils most requirements.
Where additional information is required an application is required and can be accesses on our bursaries and scholarship page.
In order to start studying at Cardiff Met all applicants must register with the University by using the online enrolment system.
All students are required to register either prior to or at the commencement of their programme of study for each academic year.
Information about enrolling and starting at the University is sent to unconditional firm applicants from July onwards.
In order for applicants to be eligible for enrolment, all offer conditions must be met.
These will include both academic and non-academic conditions for example criminal record checks, occupational health checks, right to study in the United Kingdom (if being taught in the United Kingdom).
Original proof of qualifications will need to be provided and information to comply with statutory obligations.
Agreement to abide with universities policies, regulations and procedures through the signing of the Terms and Conditions of your Enrolment is also required.​
All queries in relation to enrolment should be directed to the Enrolment unit within Academic Registry by e-mailing enrolment​@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to a policy of equality of opportunity and aim to​ provide a safe learning, working, and social environment that is free from discrimination.
It aims to ensure that students, staff, visitors, and all others associated with the University are treated with dignity, respect, and equity, regardless of inappropriate distinctions such as age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy, maternity, race, religion, belief, sex and sexual orientation (as identified under the Equality Act 2010 as ‘protected characteristics’).
Admission is contingent upon the information within the application being correct.
It is the responsibility of applicants to provide full and accurate information in their application and to ensure that the University is informed of any changes to contact details or personal circumstances.
Applicants are also expected to respond to any additional requests for information that are required as part of the admissions process, in a timely manner.
Applicants who do not follow the relevant application procedures for the University, and UCAS or who make false or fraudulent applications including nondisclosure of information will have their place withdrawn.
Please refer to Cardiff Metropolitan’s policy on dealing with applications that include false or fraudulent information in the policies section below.
Where an applicant or, third party acting on behalf of an applicant, has knowingly misled the University by providing false or incorrect information, the University will notify relevant parties.
These include UCAS in relation to the undergraduate applications, UK Visas and Immigration where information declared may be used to falsely obtain entry into the UK, and the relevant UK police force in relation to matters of serious fraud and deception.
32.1 Restrictions
Applicants who have left the University in bad academic standing i.e.
without successfully completing the year of study upon which they were last enrolled, shall not normally be permitted to enrol on a different course at the University.
If an applicant who has left in bad academic standing enrols without disclosing their standing and obtaining specific permission from the Course Director of the course previously enrolled on, then they will be subject to investigation under the student disciplinary procedure for dishonesty and all sanctions including exclusion will be available to the investigating officer.
Applicants who are in debt to the University for any reason shall not normally be permitted to enrol on a course at the University.
If an applicant who is a debtor enrols without disclosing the debt and obtaining specific information from Finance, then they will be subject to investigation under the student disciplinary procedure for dishonesty and all sanctions.
including exclusion will be available to the investigating officer.
Further information on the Universities Debtors Policy and procedure can be accessed from the policies section below.
The University takes seriously its safeguarding duties, please refer to the policy in the policies section below.
Where information is provided to the University in relation (or potentially in relation) to a safeguarding matter, the University will discharge it duties to record and report as appropriate any concerns to applicable parties (only) within the University and with relevant external organisations such as the Police (including the Counter Terrorism Agency), Children’s Services or Social Services.
The University collects data on admissions from applicants in order to meet requirements for admissions which include being able to make decisions, contact applicants and provide information for meeting statutory reporting requirements.
If the University does not receive this data it will mean that you will be unable to be admitted as a student.
Personal information submitted by applicants is processed under Data Protection legislation including but not limited to the General Data Protection Regulation.
Information will only be accessed by those staff involved in the processing of applications and will form part of the student record if applicants accept a place and enrol at the university.
The legal requirements for processing are
Data for unsuccessful applicants is kept for one year and then securely destroyed.
Data for successful applicants where relevant will form part of the student file and be maintained for up to 7 years after graduation.
Under the Freedom of Information Act, individuals have a right to access their own personal information and to correct this as necessary or request his to be deleted.
More information on Cardiff Met’s data protection policy and information in relation to who can be contacted can be accessed at University Structure & Governance Data Protection .
The University reserves the right to make changes to course content, entry requirements, method of delivery or to suspend, combine or withdraw a programme, both prior to and after a student’s enrolment to the University, if such action is reasonably considered necessary.
Details of the type of changes are outlined in our terms and conditions published on our website.
In the event of such a change, we will write to any affected applicant(s) promptly to notify them of the change and provide applicant(s) with details of the courses of action available to them.
In the event that, prior to a student commencing their study (who holds a confirmed offer of a place), we withdraw a course, a student may either:
In these circumstances if a student wishes to withdraw from their place and to enrol in a course at a different University, we will also take reasonable action/s to assist in finding a suitable alternative place.
Cardiff Metropolitan University has a legal obligation to comply with sanctions enforced by the UK government .
International applicants subject to UK immigration control, who are intending to study at postgraduate level in certain sensitive subjects, knowledge of which could be used in programmes to develop weapons of mass destruction or their means of delivery need to apply to the Academic Technology Approval Scheme for an ATAS certificate before they can study in the UK.​
Any concerns over students who are working with sensitive technology are referred to the UK government’s Academic Technology Approval Scheme.​​
A complaints procedure is also in place for those applicants who are not happy with the service that they have been provided with.
Complaints in relation to admissions are managed in accordance with the Universities Complaints procedure.
Cardiff Met’s admissions policy should be read in conjunction with the supported related policies below:
Admissions lies within the department of Marketing, Communications and Student Recruitment at Cardiff Metropolitan University, please refer to the About Us page for information on Cardiff Metropolitan University strategic framework.
Any queries in relation to admissions and the admissions policy should be directed to the Head of Admissions.
Admissions Cardiff Metropolitan University Marketing, Communications and Student Recruitment Maritime House Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/cardiff-met-performance-sport-offer-policy:
Athletics - Achieved a top 8 finish at England Athletics U20s Championships.
In exceptional circumstances we will consider PBs over the last two years in relation to past BUCS Championship final performances.
Women’s Basketball – Experience at or above one of the following levels:
Wheelchair Basketball – Experience of competing in any British Wheelchair Basketball recognised league including Junior National League, National League and Women’s League.
Men’s Cricket – Experience at or above one of the following levels:
Men’s Football Playing experience at one of the following levels;
Women’s Football – Experience at or above one of the following levels:
Men’s Hockey – Experience at or above one of the following levels:
Women’s Hockey – Experience at or above one of the following levels:
Netball - Experience at or above one of the following levels:
Men’s Rugby Union – Experience at or above one of the following levels:
Women’s Rugby – Experience at or above one of the following levels:
Triathlon – Achieved two top-40 finishes at British Elite Youth/Junior Super Series events.
All other sports - Applicants should meet one of the following:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/terms-and-conditions:
​The information provided below outlines the terms and conditions between the University and Applicants to our programmes of study.
A binding contract is formed between the University and the Applicant when the Applicant accepts the offer of a place at university, so it is important that you read this information as it forms the basis of the relationship between you and Cardiff Met.
We also recommend that applicants make themselves aware of the information within the Student Handbook , and the course content found on the Course Pages and in their Programme Specification.
We do not expect you to know all the information in detail, but to be aware that it exists and its relevance to you.
You may also have other contractual arrangements with other organisations such as with an accommodation provider or the student loan company, so we would recommend that you also understand their conditions.
Our aim is to make this information accessible and easy to understand so if you have any queries or questions concerning any aspect, please contact Lisa Bowen, Head of Admissions on 029 2041 6014 or email at LBowen@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
To download a PDF version of the Terms and Conditions, please click here .
To view this document in Welsh, please click here .
Your place with the University will be subject to you fulfilling the application process and enrolling at the start of your programme.
Your place will be subject to the terms and conditions stated in your offer letter, the information contained in the relevant University prospectus and/or website, and the policies and procedures of the University (available on the website), which are referred to in the Student Handbook and the student charter , which will be sent to you before the start of the programme.
Access to these documents and information is provided during the admission and enrolment processes.
You can also access the Admissions Policy by clicking here .
Please make sure that you familiarise yourself with these documents and their relevant requirements, as failure to comply with regulations could result in the University terminating your offer and or registration.
​​All new programmes at the University must undergo validation, the purpose of which is to ensure that the proposed programme is aligned to the University's Mission and its content reflects appropriate levels of academic standard and quality.
If the programme you have applied for is Subject to Validation, and you are offered a place, you will be informed of the validation date with your offer.
If changes are made to the programme, this will be communicated with you and the programme information will be updated on our website.
If you are not happy with the changes made and wish to withdraw your choice, the University will assist you with finding an alternative programme.
Any offer of a place at Cardiff Metropolitan University will be subject to you meeting conditions which will be made known to you.
These conditions may include requirements to obtain or provide evidence of particular qualifications, and satisfy all legal and other requirements to study on your chosen programme.
These requirements could include health checks, criminal record checks and the provision of immigration details.
The offer may be conditional or unconditional and will be set out in your offer letter.
You will also be provided with a programme specification/s for the courses on which you have been offered a place.
Offers will be made through UCAS for full time undergraduate applicants, UTT for full time PGCE teacher training applicants, and via Self Service and/or by letter for part-time, postgraduate and research applicants.​
Applicants will be expected to reply to any offers given.
For undergraduate applicants the option will be firm (first choice), insurance (second choice) or decline.
For PGCE teacher training applicants, the option will be firm or decline and for all other applicants applying through Cardiff Met's Self Service system, the options are accept or decline.
In replying Firm to the offer given, the University will take this as acknowledgement of the acceptance of our Terms and Conditions so please ensure that these are read and understood.
By replying Firm, you are also agreeing that the University may hold and use the information provided for the purposes of admissions, admittance and your student record.
Please refer to the section on Personal Information and Data Protection which provides further information in relation to the use of personal information provided.
Applicants do have a 14 day period after a reply to change their mind, which means you can decide to decline your offer after you have originally accepted firm.
Cardiff Metropolitan has a Cancellation Form which can be completed by clicking here If you have any queries concerning the Terms and Conditions please also contact Admissions at askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Undergraduate applicants who make Cardiff Metropolitan University their Insurance choice, and who then either change or are uprated to Firm, will have a 14 day period to change their mind from the date of the change.
An example scenario of this would be if the Firm choice makes the application unsuccessful on receipt of examination results when the Insurance choice is still active.
If you have been issued with an offer which is conditional on achievement of qualifications or other requirements, you will need to fulfil those conditions to receive an unconditional offer.
If you do not meet the terms of your offer we may offer you an alternative programme which you can accept or decline.
If you choose to accept the change of confirmation decision, you will have 14 days once you have replied firm to change your mind, and be released into Clearing to be considered elsewhere or withdrawn.
We reserve the right to withdraw the offer, or to defer your application to the next year of entry, if you have not fulfilled the conditions of your offer before the 31st of August prior to the start of the academic year.
Due to limited numbers, offer conditions for NHS funded programmes need to be met 5 weeks before the start of the academic year, and applicants are informed of the exact date in their offer letters.
Please note that applicants for postgraduate programmes, including research, apart from those which are NHS funded, which have different start dates will be exempt from this deadline.
For these programmes, applicants must meet their conditions two weeks before the start of the programme.
Once an offer of a place has been given, the University will not make changes unless external factors demand this for example if an industry requirement is introduced.
In the unlikely event of an offer needing to be changed, applicants are contacted to explain the situation and agree changes.
Applicants who are offered a place in Clearing have their results so all offers processed are Unconditional Firm.
Once a clearing decision is processed applicants will have 14 days to change their mind and either be released into Clearing or be withdrawn.
For applicants who are accepted late onto a programme i.e.
September onwards, the contractual 14 day cancellation period may not apply at application.
However, the University does have a policy whereby once enrolled at the University, students will have 14 days in which to change their mind and cancel their place, with no financial penalties incurred.
At Application Stage :
The University makes all reasonable efforts to ensure that the information provided to applicants on programmes offered is as accurate and up-to-date as possible.
However, programmes of study are continually revised and there may well be some changes between the time of publication and the time the student starts the programme.
The running of University programmes is also subject to numbers, in that a certain number of students need to undertake a programme for it to be viable and to ensure the student experience is not compromised.
If applicable minimum numbers will be stipulated on the on-line course information pages.
If we consider such action to be reasonably necessary, we reserve the right to make variations to entry requirements at the start of every admissions cycle, to vary the contents or methods of delivery of programmes, to discontinue programmes and to merge or combine programmes.
Applicants are informed as soon as possible where changes or a decision to discontinue a programme are made, so that opportunity is given for applicants to consider an alternative programme at this University or elsewhere.
When a decision to discontinue a programme is made after applicants have been offered a place, the Admissions unit will make every effort to offer alternatives and will provide assistance with finding a suitable alternative programme.
From Offer Stage and Beyond :
The University makes all reasonable efforts to deliver the programmes of study and research opportunities and other services and facilities in the way described on this website.
It will provide students with the tuition and learning support and other services and facilities it describes with reasonable care and skill.
However, the University shall be entitled if it reasonably considers it to be necessary (including in order to manage its resources and pursue its policy of continuous improvement appropriately):
In the unlikely event that the University discontinues or does not provide a programme of study or changes it significantly before it begins:
The University will make available to students such learning support and other services and facilities as it considers appropriate, but may vary what it provides from time to time (for example, the University may consider it desirable to change the way it provides library or IT support).
Upon acceptance by an applicant of an offer of a place at the University, the relationship between the applicant and the University becomes contractual and the applicant accepts the University's terms and conditions.
In entering into that contract, neither the student nor the University intends that any of the terms of the contract will be enforceable by virtue of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 by any person not a party to it.
University Policy on Programme Discontinuation
The University reviews its academic portfolio on a regular basis through established planning processes to ensure currency and attractiveness of its offer for students and stakeholders.
Where this results in proposals for withdrawal of a programme, the Programme Discontinuation Procedure must be invoked to allow sufficient consideration of the impact of the discontinuation on students.
The University is committed to the continuation of teaching of any programme which it has agreed to discontinue, to ensure that all registered students are able to complete their programme.
Should it occur that the University is unable to teach out all remaining students on a programme, we would normally offer to teach a suitable alternative programme or facilitate transfer or direct-entry to another provider and assist students in having their learning recognised by the new provider through appropriate credit transfer.
Instances in which we are unable to teach-out students are likely to be rare but may include: we cease operating through no choice of our own; students face long term disruption that continuously and materially affects teaching over many months (e.g.
fire in a key building leaving it unusable); we work with a partner to deliver the programme (e.g.
a Degree Apprenticeship with a particular company) and they are unable to continue.
Any teach out of provision following a decision to discontinue will be monitored through the University’s established quality assurance procedures and academic governance structures.
Programme Suspension
Any proposals for the suspension of a programme must be submitted through the Programme Suspension Procedure to allow sufficient consideration of the impact of the suspension on students.
Any decision will consider the impact of the proposed suspension on applicants and current students and the process for notifying students and applicants.
Where the suspension of the programme is approved, the University will use all reasonable endeavours to safeguard the delivery of the programme for continuing students (known as “teach out”).
Where a decision to suspend recruitment to a programme is taken and offers have already been made, the University will notify all applicants promptly and offer support to transfer to another programme at the University or release applicants to another higher education provider.
Cardiff Metropolitan undertakes a Periodic Review Process, the purpose of which is to critically appraise a programme's state of health.
It enables changes to be proposed so that the programme remains current and valid, as well maintaining quality enhancement and ensuring that academic standards are achieved.
The periodic review also enables planned developments to be met.
Any relevant changes resulting from periodic review will be communicated to students so that they are aware of any implications affecting their study.
Further information in relation to the Periodic Review is provided within the Academic Handbook .
It is your responsibility to ensure that all the information you provide to us is true and accurate.
This accuracy of information includes accuracy of personal details as errors made in students' names during the admissions and enrolment processes will result in incorrect degree transcripts.
Applicants who do not follow the relevant application procedures for the University, UCAS and UTT, or who make false or fraudulent applications including non disclosure of information will have their places withdrawn.
Please refer to Cardiff Metropolitan University's policy on dealing with applications that include false or fraudulent information; this policy can be found by clicking here .
The University has a duty of care to ensure that students are not exposed to inappropriate risk.
Therefore, in order to take up a place and continue with studies, some programmes (for example complementary healthcare, healthcare science, human nutrition and dietetics, podiatry and speech and language therapy), require the applicant to complete an occupational health questionnaire and provide proof of immunisation against certain diseases before enrolment, as well as to undergo health screening checks once on campus.
Additionally, for some programmes, student participation in a mandatory vaccination programme is also required.
All Occupational Health checks and screening appointments are carried out to enable the University to make an assessment of health so that reasonable assistance can be made to accommodate the individual to the post.
Your offer conditions and or letter will inform you when such health requirements apply.
Full details on Cardiff Met's Occupational Health Assessment programme can be found at: www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/ohq .
Cardiff Met has a duty of care to its students and needs to be informed of any unspent convictions which have resulted in probation and or restrictions being imposed.
Applicants will therefore be asked for any information concerning this after they have been offered a place.
Applicants for courses where students are brought into contact with children and or vulnerable adults will be asked to disclose all relevant convictions, even if spent and undergo a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check and other checks prior to and post enrolment.
Please refer to www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/dbs for further information.
International students choosing to study in the UK will need immigration clearance.
Please refer to the international pages for further information at www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/international
The allocation of places in Hall is co-ordinated by the Accommodation Service.
Although priority is given to first year students, high demand results in private accommodation being used to house many first year students.
Allocation is based on distance and the date of the on-line application.
For further information and for details on the accommodation contract please refer to the following www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/accommodation .
The University provides an extensive variety of student support to provide assistance with health, welfare, lifestyle and future career advice, which includes support and advice for disabled students.
The university welcomes disabled students, and applicants are strongly encouraged to disclose a disability or other support needs on their application, so that the University can seek to support any needs throughout the time of study.
It is important that applicants/students discuss their needs with the Disability Service and provide information as requested so that appropriate adjustments can be made.
For more information please refer to: www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/disability
Students at Cardiff Metropolitan are required to enrol on line once their place as been confirmed (made ​unconditional firm) and it is important that the terms and conditions of enrolment, which can be accessed here are read and understood.
This includes a requirement to formally agree to the terms and conditions, policies and procedures of the University.
It is imperative that you familiarise yourself with these documents before your enrolment.
All students are required to agree the method/basis for payment of their fees.
We will require students who are being sponsored by an employer or funded by a loan taken out with the Student Loan Company to provide satisfactory evidence of these arrangements, and the ability to support themselves during the period of study.
If evidence is not available at the time of enrolment, such evidence must be provided by students within a 2 week period of enrolment; failure to do so may result in students having to pay the fees themselves.
Further information concerning fees can be accessed by clicking here .
We require satisfactory evidence of your qualifications, including English Language and Maths GCSE (where applicable).
You will not be allowed to enrol unless you provide proof of your qualifications via an original transcript/certificate or a clear legible copy authenticated by the issuing organisation.
Please refer to our policy on the verification of qualifications by clicking here .
Full time undergraduate applicants for whom level 3 qualification results are received from UCAS will not need to provide certificates.
We will still require verification of GCSEs/equivalent.
Where admission to a programme is dependent upon an enhanced DBS disclosure, any registration shall be regarded as provisional until an acceptable disclosure has been received and clearance given.
A registration may be revoked in the case of an unacceptable disclosure.
The personal information that you provide in your application to Cardiff Metropolitan will be used for the processing of your application and will form part of your student record.
It may also be used to
Certain personal data is provided to the University throughout your application process and further information is then obtained during the enrolment process.
Personal data is gathered and processed throughout your time at the University whilst undertaking your studies and will be handled in accordance with the legislative requirements.
The personal information of unsuccessful applicants may also be retained if necessary and disposed of in line with the Universities policy on the retention of records.
Information on an applicant's health may be required prior to starting certain courses in order to meet professional requirements.
Information on a student's health may also be required when fieldwork and placements are undertaken for health and safety and insurance purposes.
Applicants are also required to disclose and undertake a criminal records check for certain courses to meet both legal and professional requirements.
By entering into the contract with us, you are giving us the right to hold and process your personal data including some sensitive personal data in accordance with Article 6.1 (b) of the General Data Protection Regulations.
We will process your personal data in accordance with the Data Protection principles at all times as highlighted within the GDPR and our internal Data Protection Policies and Procedures.
For information on both our Data Protection and Openness Policies please refer to www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/DataProtection or contact DataProtection@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Although we consider all the information provided within the terms and conditions to be important, we would like to draw your attention to the really important information under:
Cardiff Met works in collaboration with a number of Partner Institutions which offer courses validated by Cardiff Met.
These Institutions will also have terms and conditions which need to be read and understood, along with the terms and conditions of Cardiff Met.
Please refer to Cardiff Met's Partnership Pages for more information on our partners.
After replying to offers, applicants have 14 days in which they can change their mind and cancel their place with the University.
Written notice of this 14 day period is provided to all applicants.
After this period, if applicants wish to cancel their place they will need to complete and return the Cancellation Form .
Once enrolled at the University, students also have 14 days in which to change their mind and cancel their place.
If applicants choose to withdraw or cancel their place after the 14 day period, the University will allow this with no financial penalties incurred.
However, it is expected that applicants have a valid reason for withdrawal and have researched the consequences of this decision.
Please refer to the Fees section below for financial penalties incurred for withdrawals after enrolment.
Fees are charged each year for all undergraduate and postgraduate full time and part time programmes including Research.
Full information pertaining to costs can be found on our Finance pages.
Changes can occur to the cost of study which take into account inflation and market forces, further information can be found in Cardiff Met's Fee Plan .
Please also refer to Cardiff Met's Fee Statement ​for further information and to answer any questions you may have concerning the change to fees.
All students are required to agree methods of payment in relation to their tuition and accommodation fees by the start of their programme.
Students may also incur additional costs associated with their programme, for further information, please refer to the Additional Costs information.
Full information on fees and regulations can be accessed both on our Fees and Finance website page as well as the Student Handbook .
You should pay particular attention to the fact that if you decide to withdraw after the first two weeks of starting your programme, your liability for fees will be dependant upon the period of study, as set out below:
If you are paying your own fees or any contribution towards your fees, arrangements are in place to pay be instalments by Direct Debit.
If your fees are to be paid or contributed by a sponsor or other agency, proof of this must be provided at enrolment by uploading confirmation of your funding letter.
If you are intending to receive support from the Student Loans Company , an application should have been completed preferably by May, or as soon as possible after this date.
Please be aware that should your choice of programme or year of entry change after submitting your student loan application, you should update the Student Loans Company of the change at your earliest convenience.
Should you experience difficulties in meeting your financial obligations or require advice on dealing with debt, contact should be made with our Student Finance and Welfare Advisory Service to see if any financial assistance can be received.
The University also has a Policy on Debtors .
A complaints procedure is in place for those applicants who are not happy with the service that they have been provided with.
In the first instance, you are welcome to contact the relevant department where your complaint originates.
Should you not get the outcome you expect, the University has a formal complaints procedure.
For more information on the formal complaints procedures, please click here .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/feedback-policy:
Applicants can contact the Admissions unit for feedback on their application if an unsuccessful decision has been received.
It is Cardiff Metropolitan University’s policy to provide feedback on request and for certain programmes, generic feedback is sent in the form of letter.
The form and depth of the feedback may vary between different programmes.
Applicants are encouraged to contact the Admissions unit for feedback either by email at askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk or by telephone on 029 2041 6010 within a month of receiving an unsuccessful decision.
Feedback will be given within a two week period when feedback has to be obtained from the school.
The feedback provided is based on academic judgement concerning an applicants suitability to undertake a programme and will include failure to satisfy both academic and non-academic (e.g.
occupational health checks, criminal records checks) requirements.
Staff may not engage in comparisons of the relative merits of individual applications.
Feedback will only be provided to applicants themselves and at the applicant’s request, unless permission is given which includes nominated access through UCAS.
Feedback provided to applicants will not constitute a reconsideration of application.
If a review of a decision is required, the University will not review an admissions decision where the grounds for requesting it are that the applicant disagrees with the academic judgement that has been applied, and where there is no evidence that the correct procedures have not been followed.
If an applicant believes that the correct procedures have not been followed they are encouraged initially to address this with the Head of Admissions either by email or letter.
If the applicant feels the response is inadequate, a request can then be made for a formal review of the decision which should be made in writing and addressed to the Head of Student Recruitment, who shall investigate in consultation with the Head of Admissions, Programme Tutor and appropriate persons.
When making a request for a review of a decision, applicants must include the reasons for requesting a review and include supporting evidence where available.
The University will aim to consider the review within a period of two weeks, but if this is not possible will inform applicants if additional time is needed.
The outcome of the review will be sent to the applicant in writing at the address provided.
If applicants remain unsatisfied with the outcome of the review a formal complaint may then be made through Cardiff Metropolitan University complaints procedure at www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/complaints .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/contact-admissions:
Please complete the form below to contact Admissions.
The team will aim to respond within three working days.
This may be longer during busy periods.
In the meantime, you can Live Chat with us on this page during office hours (Monday to Friday, 9am-4pm).

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate:
Llandaff
Cyncoed

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/undergraduate-courses/before-you-apply:
Your decision to go to university isn't ​just a question of choosing the right course; it's about finding a location where you can see yourself living, studying and socialising for the next few years of your life!
Make sure you get lots of advice from parents, teachers and friends but keep in mind what interests you and what your goals are.
Below are a few ideas to get you started, and what to expect if you make an application to Cardiff Met:
We highly recommend that you research your course choice well before applying, because if you’re on the right course, you’ll love student life.
Whether you want a single or joint honours degree, or a course that offers you the opportunity to undertake a work placement, make sure you visit university websites, request prospectuses and visit ucas.com​ to search the range of courses that are available to you.
You can choose from a wide range of career-orientated pathways at Cardiff Met, preparing you for a first class career after graduation.
Many of our courses are fully accredited by industry bodies and offer year long work placements which can give you the edge when it comes to starting your chosen career.
Visit www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/undergraduate to find out more about the range of career focused courses we offer.
Open Days provide the perfect opportunity to experience first hand the location, teaching environment and typical content of your course; can help you to get a feel for a new place and help you decide whether or not you can see yourself living and studying there for the duration of your studies.
Cardiff Met hosts a full programme of unique and exciting Open Days throughout the year.
As we've mentioned before, university is about living too, which is why it's worth knowing that our campuses are set in the heart of Cardiff - a young, historic yet vibrant city full of style and character, with a range of world class sporting, shopping and nightlife facilities.
Every year, UCAS organises a range of Higher Education Conventions around the UK.
Almost all UK universities will attend these conventions so it's an ideal opportunity for you to discover a range of courses that are available around the UK.
As well as finding out more about the study options available, the conventions are an ideal opportunity to participate in talks and presentations about topics such as your personal statement, student life, tuition fees and financing your way through university.
Your school or college may already be organising a trip to one of these conventions, however you can also attend them with friends or family.
To find out more visit the UCAS website at www.ucas.com/events
Click here for more information about what happens next.
If you wish to apply for a full time undergraduate course please do so via UCAS at www.ucas.com .
You can apply for most of our courses through UCAS right through to the end of June.
Please make sure you contact Admissions to check if there is a specific deadline for your chosen course.
If you have applied elsewhere and change your mind, or didn't receive the offers you wanted, Cardiff Met also accepts applications through UCAS Extra .
The Institution code for Cardiff Metropolitan University is: C20 (CMET)
UCAS Customer Services - 0371 468 0 468 Take some time over the personal statement section of your UCAS application.
You will want to make a few drafts and also ask other people to read it for you for their opinion.
This statement is very important as it forms a big part of the assessment of your application.
Tips and tools for completing the personal statement are also available on UCAS.com.
The Complete University Guide also offer great tips on applying and the deadlines that may apply to you.
Entry requirements for courses are published on the Cardiff Metropolitan University website as well as UCAS and the University’s prospectus.
Cardiff Met accepts a broad range of qualifications as we recognise that applicants have a wealth of different experiences and may have followed different educational routes.
Applications are considered on an individual basis and when making offers we consider a range of factors in addition to, or in some cases instead of, formal examination results.
We will consider applicants with predicted grades that fall below the published entry criteria taking all the information on the application into consideration.
Cardiff Met is committed to ensuring that everyone who has the determination, skills, and desire to access Higher Education should be able to do so.
We use information provided on your application and additional data collected as part of the admissions process.
This allows us to recognise an applicant’s achievement and potential to succeed in the context of background and experience.
Information is considered as part of the decision-making process, or as part of the confirmation process when qualifications are achieved.
Offers made are based on the UCAS tariff for the majority of courses and entry requirements can contain a range of offers to accommodate both contextualised admissions and differences in achievement, experiences and skills achieved.
Motivation and potential is also considered for some courses through interview or assessment of a portfolio or written materials.
Differences can occur between entry qualifications, qualifications advertised for entry and what is accepted for entry to Cardiff Met.
This is due to a number of factors including contextualised indicators, overall national standard of achievement within qualifications and relevance to course, target numbers for courses and demand, extenuating circumstances, employment undertaken as well as work experience and volunteer work, professional (industry related) qualifications achieved, sporting achievements, demonstration of skills/achievements, e.g., portfolio and accreditation of prior learning.
Further information on entry requirements is within Cardiff Met’s Admissions Policy and contextualised information can be obtained from Cardiff Met’s Contextualised Admissions Policy ​.
The UCAS Historical Entry Grades tool is unable to differentiate between applicants accepted onto year 0 of a four bachelor degree and those accepted onto year 1 of a three-year bachelor degree where historically there had been a shared UCAS course code.
Cardiff Met programmes have therefore been excluded from the UCAS Historical Entry Grades tool for this academic cycle and now with separate UCAS course codes for our three-year and four-year degree programmes, we are committed to making improvements for future application cycles.
Once your application form has been received at UCAS it will be sent to Cardiff Metropolitan University for consideration.
Your application will be considered by either admissions staff or programme tutors dependant on the programme that you have applied for and we will endeavour to process your application as soon as possible after receipt.
Decisions are based on set criteria and all information provided on the application is considered when deciding to offer a place.
Certain programmes require an interview before an offer of a place can be given and applicants are informed of the details of this beforehand.
For full details of our Admissions Policy please click here.
Candidates who do not possess normal minimum entry qualifications may be interviewed and considered individually by members of the course team on the basis of their prior learning or working background.
For applicants who are only undertaking 2 A levels or equivalent, this will be considered along with the rest of the academic profile and we may issue a graded offer in lieu of an offer using the UCAS Tariff.
For further information on the University's RPL procedures and whether this may be applicable, please click here.
The interview is used to discover whether you are suited to the course and also whether the course is suited to you.
If you prepare yourself well beforehand you should have nothing to worry about.
The following points may help you.
If you are offered a place, the following decisions may apply:
Conditional Offer : where you have been accepted on condition that you obtain certain grades or points in examinations.
Unconditional Offer : where you have already satisfied the entry requirements for the course.
Change of Course Offer where we cannot offer you a place on your initial choice but have offered you a place on a course that we think will be more suitable.
You will also be told in an email from UCAS how to accept or decline the offer before your deadline.
The University operates a contextualised offer scheme considering a number of contextual indicators and will make a reduced offer when applicants meet these indicators.​
Cardiff Met considers extenuating and personal circumstances as part of its Contextualised Admissions policy and applicants can send information to askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk​ .
Any supplementary documents should be submitted to Admissions including the applicant’s full name and UCAS or Student number.
Debtors to the University who make a new application will be considered and providing requirements for entry are met, will be offered a place.
However, this offer will be dependant on either the debt being cleared before the start of the programme, or an agreement established with Finance concerning payment.
Applicants can contact Finance concerning outstanding debt by either: Email: finance@cardiffmet.ac.uk ; or Tel: 029 2041 6083
Further information on the University's Debtor Policy and Procedure , click here.
without successfully completing the year of study upon which they were last enrolled, are expected to inform the Admissions Unit when considering reapplying, before an application is submitted.
Applicants will be considered once the information on the bad academic standing has been received and verified.
The final decision on acceptance will be made by the two Programme Directors concerned with your past and proposed study.
The full arrangements for under 18s are outlined in the Admission of Students Aged Under 18 Policy .
This form will be sent directly during the admissions process.
The information provided on your application is normally sufficient to determine your fee status, i.e.
whether you will pay home or overseas fees as a student at Cardiff Met.
If your fee ​status is unclear you will be sent a Fee Status Assessment Form which will need to be completed and returned to the address indicated on the form as soon as possible.
If the form is not returned, you will be defaulted to overseas status for tuition fee purposes and charged the higher rate of fees.
For further information on this process please click here.
It is Cardiff Metropolitan University’s policy to check all qualifications prior to enrolment.
Please click here to view our policy on verification of qualifications and matriculation.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/advice-for-applicants/part-time-apprenticeship-postgraduate-and-professional-courses/research-programmes:
​​​​​​​​​​Cardiff Met offers numerous routes for postgraduate research study and, in most cases, both full time and part time study options are available.
Following a traditional route, you could study for the award of either an MPhil or PhD .
The MPhil offers you the chance to critically evaluate a body of knowledge or make an original contribution to your chosen field.
Alternatively, you may decide to follow a Professional Doctorate (part time only) which combines a taught component with the production of a final project that focuses on the enhancement of practice.
The suite of Professional Doctorates awards offered at Cardiff Met is wide ranging and encompasses research interests from across the institution.
A full list of Professional Doctorate programmes is included in the Postgraduate prospectus .
For those with existing connections to Cardiff Met, and who have amassed a significant research portfolio, then a PhD by Publication may be a more suitable route.
More guidance on the requirements are provided within the Application section.
Please visit the CSAD Research page for up-to-date information on proposal requirements, applicant advice and deadlines.
Before applying for doctoral study at CSESP, please make sure you have taken the three steps below.
(Please note, the below guidance does not apply to applications for the National EdD.
Please contact Professor Michelle Jones for information on how to apply to the National EdD: MSJones@cardiffmet.ac.uk )
1) Identify a Research Group and supervisor you would like to work with.
Consider how your interests and expertise align with the research groups and researchers in the School.
Your supervisors will be your main source of guidance for the duration of your doctoral project.
It is important their expertise aligns with your study.
Approach the relevant research group or supervisor via email informally to gauge their interest in supervising you.
Details of our Research Groups and their staff members can be found here .
Our Staff contacts can be found here .
And here .
Contact the research lead or convenor of the Research Group that most clearly aligns with your area of research in the first instance.
If you are unsure which Research Group to approach please contact ESSHResearchDegrees@cardiffmet.ac.uk for guidance.
When you make your informal approach please do so with
Research Proposal Guidance
The research proposal should be around 1000-1500 words.
Your proposal should include:
The proposal will be judged on its relevance to the School’s research profile and supervisory expertise as well as on its quality and potential as a research study.
Further guidance for Creative Writing applicants can be found here
Professional Doctorate (EdD) applicants should indicate how their research relates to their own professional context and how it might impact upon policy/practice.
If a Research Group is happy to support your application, it can then be submitted with a finalised research proposal containing the endorsement of the Research Group, and the proposed Director of Studies (lead supervisor) and secondary Supervisor(s).
The details of the endorsement must be clearly stated at the bottom of the submitted Research Proposal.
For example:
This research proposal has been endorsed by The Childhood and Youth Research Group and is supported by Prof Jane Jones (proposed Director of Studies) and Dr Stephen Morris (proposed supervisor).
2) Evidence you are qualified for doctoral study.
The normal qualifications accepted for entry onto doctoral study are an upper second-class honours (2:1) undergraduate degree or better from a recognised higher education institution; or a postgraduate degree; or a qualification deemed by the University to be equivalent to this level.
In in some subject areas, it is usual for you to have a postgraduate degree prior to application.
3) Establish your level of English is suitable.
Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an IELTS 6.5 standard (minimum 6.5 in the reading and writing components) or equivalent.
However, we strongly recommend you study to attain IELTS 7.0.
as the reading and writing on a Research Degree will be intense.
Application Deadlines
There will are two enrolment points per year with clear deadlines for applications as follows:
Please provide an outline research proposal (maximum of 1500 words).
Your proposal should include a working title, some background information on the subject, the main aims of your research question, the principal methods to be adopted (including any specialised equipment requirements where known) and any ethical issues associated with your research.
Please cite references in the background and list all cited references.
We will use this information to ensure that the proposal fits with the School's research profile and that the necessary equipment and supervisory expertise is available.
Your proposal should be described in a maximum of 2,000 words, using the following sub-headings: 'Research Question' and 'How your proposal relates to published work in this area'.
You should also submit a 'Reference Section', which is not included in the word count.
Further information on requirements can be found here .
Please submit an outline of your intended research area.
You should indicate the rationale for the project, the main research question or hypotheses and the research design that you would follow.
You should also include the related methodological approaches that you would take and refer to the key literature in this area.
This should be around 1500 words and will form the basis for discussion with potential supervisors.
Please provide a brief outline of your research topic/subject.
The proposal should be up to 1000 words and should describe the research topic/question on which you are likely to focus and an outline of the debate/subject area in which your research will be located (making the significance of your research interest clear).
You should also include a Reference Section (not included in the word count) and your professional and/or personal reasons for wanting to undertake this research.
If you would like to discuss your options before making an application, please complete this form and we will contact you shortly.
A candidate shall be eligible to enrol on the degree of PhD by Published Works if they satisfy one of the following criteria:
In the case of co-authored manuscripts, the candidate must evidence that they have a majority contribution to the submitted works with the expressive approval of all co-authors.
Submissions should include, in appendices, a statement signed by each collaborator indicating the nature and amount of the work done by the candidate, with reference to the contribution to the conceptualisation, design, conduct of the research, analysis, and writing up of the publication.
The submitted works must have undergone academic peer-review and satisfy the Level 8 criteria:
A person shall not be eligible to proceed to the degree of PhD by Published Works under these regulations if they have been previously approved for a PhD or other related doctoral degree of the University.
A candidate who has been examined for a doctoral degree but who has not been approved for such a degree, may not become a candidate for the degree of PhD by Published Works under these regulations.
The minimum entrance requirement for research degrees offered by the University is an upper second class honours undergraduate degree relevant to the proposed programme of study and research (or International Equivalent).
The award must have been made by a recognised university or higher education institution, or by the Council for National Academic Awards (CNAA).
Applicants are required to provide evidence of their qualifications as part of the application process.
All applicants must declare that their submission is not substantially the same as any that they have previously made or are currently making, whether in published or unpublished form, for a degree, diploma, or similar qualification at any university or similar institution.
All applications must be submitted by the submission deadline (see Section 5.9) indicated on the University research degrees website.
Applications should include all of the published works that will comprise the thesis and a supporting proposal (maximum of 1,500 words) that clearly outlines how the body of published works:
Applicants are also required to submit a full academic curriculum vitae with their initial application.
The curriculum vitae will help ensure that the PhD by Published Works Review Committee are aware of the research activity and publishing track record of the applicant, either individually or in collaborative research groups.
The curriculum vitae will also be used when considering non-academic circumstances that may have restricted or delayed the development of an applicant’s professional career in terms of volume rather than the quality of the outputs and activities presented within the submission (see Section 2.8).
All applications will be reviewed for their suitability by a PhD by Published Works Review Committee, typically comprised of, but not limited to, Graduate Study Lead, Associate Deans of Research and Deputy Director of Research.
All applicants should declare that, until the outcome of the current application to the University is known, the work or works submitted will not be submitted for any such qualification at another university or similar institution.
Successful applicants will be able to enrol on the PhD by Published Works degree for the closest September enrolment date, under the premise that all fees have been paid.
Once in receipt of an offer letter from the University, applicants are required to confirm acceptance of the offer and to subsequently enrol via the University’s online enrolment system.
Applicants will be advised of the fee applicable to their programme of study during the application process.
The applicable fee must be paid upon enrolment or candidate’s will be subject to the University’s Debtor Policy.
Key deadlines for the PhD by Published Works application process are detailed below:
In addition to the above entrance requirements, applicants must be capable of satisfying the University with regard to their proficiency in the English or Welsh language (whichever they have chosen to pursue the award in) at a level necessary to complete the programme of work and to prepare and defend a thesis in that language.
The published works selected for the submission must be presented in the English or Welsh language (whichever the applicant has chosen to pursue the award in).
In order to establish proficiency in the English language, overseas applicants whose first language is not English will normally be required to provide evidence of a minimum IELTS score (or equivalent) of 6.5 at application with a minimum of 6.5 in the reading and written components, or of a Masters Level qualification, gained through the medium of English from a recognised institution.
Candidates will be required to provide such evidence as part of the admissions process.​
You can search and apply for your chosen course in our online Self Service System.
If searching for an MPhil/PhD this will be preceded by Research in the search bar.
Please contact Admissions if you would like to complete an application form through the medium of Welsh.
Through Self Service you are able to submit an application directly to the university, and it allows you to attach compulsory and other supporting documents such as qualifications (we advise that you upload qualifications, if completed, with your application).
You must upload a Research Proposal and Supporting Document​ before submitting all research applications.
* Please note, if applying for the Doctorate in Sport Coaching only a personal statement and CV is required at application stage.
You are able to save your application and return to submit at a later date, however please note that accounts where an application has not been submitted within a 6 month period will be deactivated.
Once submitted, you are able to log in and check the status of your application.
If Recognising Prior Learning (RPL​) is applicable to your application, please visit our information page before submitting as this process will need to be initiated in plenty of time before the start of the programme.
We encourage online Self Service applications as it is a quicker and more efficient way of applying for a programme.
If however you are experiencing difficulties please contact Admissions on 029 2041 6010 or email askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Applicants can contact Finance concerning outstanding debt by either: Email: finance@cardiffmet.ac.uk; or Tel: 029 2041 6083
Further information on the University's Debtor Policy and Procedure .
Bad Academic Standing
without successfully completing the year of study upon which they were last enrolled are expected to inform the Admissions Unit when considering reapplying, before an application is submitted.
If you are considering applying for an MPhil/PhD, Professional Doctorate or PhD by Published Works, we have two research intakes each academic year.
You should apply for your preferred start date and we will do our best to accommodate your request.
However please be aware that not all courses are available for all dates, if needed, you should consult the relevant Graduate Studies Co-Ordinator for details.
Please apply for your preferred start date and we will do our best to accommodate your request.
Please also note that there may be an option of a January intake, but please do not apply for this unless you are informed to do so.
Start dates for 2025/26
School of Art & Design only offers one entry point, September.
School of Sport & Health Sciences offers two intakes per year, September and April.
Professional Doctorates offer two intakes per year, September and April.
Please note that you must have applied to and received an offer from us before you can enrol.
Student loans are now being introduced for postgraduate study, however there are restrictions.
Please see further information on the Postgraduate, Part Time and Research Fees & Finance page.
Here you can also find the latest fee tables and finance advice.
The University makes all reasonable efforts to ensure that the information provided to applicants on programmes offered is as accurate and up-to-date as possible, however University programmes of study are continually revised and there may well be some changes between the time of publication and the time a student starts the programme.
The running of University programmes are also subject to numbers in that a certain number of students need to undertake the programme for it to be viable.
Where changes and a decision to discontinue a programme is made, applicants are informed of this as soon as possible so that opportunity is given to consider an alternative programme at the institution or elsewhere.
If a decision to discontinue a programme is made after applicants have been offered a place the Admissions unit will make every effort to offer alternatives and provide assistance with finding an alternative choice.
Applicants affected will receive communication updates and confirmation of when they are able to self enrol.
Please visit our Terms and Conditions page for full information.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/bursaries-and-scholarships:
Cardiff Metropolitan University has created a range of bursary and scholarship schemes to assist with the cost of studying at university.
You can view our Bursaries and Scholarships Booklet , for a quick overview of our awards.
All of the schemes listed on our Bursaries and Scholarships web pages are for Home fee status students only (with the exception of the International Scholarship scheme of the Sports Scholarships, and the Sanctuary Award).
The Cardiff Met Sanctuary Award is aimed at people who have an irregular migration status, such as asylum seekers and refugees, to provide opportunities for equal access to Higher Education.
Visit the Sanctuary Award page for more information.
If you need information about Research Scholarships, click here.
If you are undertaking an NHS funded course, you can find the details of the NHS Bursary and extra support from Cardiff Met here .
If you are an International Student, you can find information on the International Scholarships here .
If you are interested in studying through the medium of Welsh, you can find further information on Welsh Medium Provision Scholarships here .
If you are facing financial difficulties, we have designated Advisers within our Money Advice Team who are able to offer advice on funding, budgeting and money management, and financial support.
Outside of Cardiff Met, there may be funding options available to you depending on your individual circumstances.
We have listed some of the options we have found available here: External Bursaries and Scholarships .
For further funding options, you can also contact our Money Advice Team on moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk .​​​
Cardiff Metropolitan University aims to ensure that information provided to applicants on procedures is as detailed and accurate as possible.
Cardiff Metropolitan University regularly reviews and monitors all matters to ensure that the process is as fair and transparent as possible.
If you have any queries relating to the Bursaries and Scholarships listed on this website, please contact us on scholarship@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
This grant/financial assistance is awarded in line with the requirements of our Welsh Language Policy, published to ensure compliance with the Welsh Language Standards (No.6) Regulations 2017, under the Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/graddau-ymchwil:
Gyda chymuned ymchwil ôl-raddedig ffyniannus yn astudio ystod eang o bynciau, mae gan Met Caerdydd ymrwymiad cryf i gynnal a chefnogi ymchwil sydd ar flaen y gad o ran archwilio gwybodaeth.
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o lwybrau ar gyfer astudio ymchwil ôl-raddedig gydag opsiynau astudio amser llawn a rhan-amser ar gael.
Gallech ddewis rhaglen a addysgir sy’n cynnwys cyfleoedd i astudio MRes (Meistr Ymchwil) a Doethuriaeth a Addysgir .
Fel arall, efallai y byddwch yn penderfynu ymgymryd â Doethuriaeth Broffesiynol (rhan-amser yn unig) sy'n cyfuno cydran a addysgir â chynhyrchu prosiect terfynol sy'n canolbwyntio ar wella ymarfer.
Mae Met Caerdydd yn cynnig cyfres eang o Ddoethuriaethau Proffesiynol sy’n cwmpasu diddordebau ymchwil o bob rhan o’r Brifysgol.
Rydym hefyd yn cynnig opsiynau i astudio ar gyfer dyfarnu naill ai MPhil (Meistr Athroniaeth) neu PhD (Doethur mewn Athroniaeth) .
I'r rhai sydd â chysylltiadau presennol â Met Caerdydd, ac sydd wedi casglu portffolio ymchwil sylweddol, yna gallai PhD trwy Weithiau Cyhoeddedig fod yn llwybr mwy addas.
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth, ac i ddarganfod a oes gennym yr arbenigedd i gefnogi eich maes ymchwil arfaethedig, llenwch y ffurflen hon: Astudiaethau Ôl-raddedig - cofrestrwch eich diddordeb .
Campws Llandaf
Mae'r cymwysterau ymchwil hyn yn canolbwyntio ar astudio annibynnol a bydd ymgeiswyr yn gweithio gyda'u goruchwylwyr i benderfynu pa raglen astudio sydd fwyaf addas i chi.
Mae'r PhD yn cynnig cyfle i chi ymgymryd â rhaglen waith systematig tuag at ddatblygu gwybodaeth newydd, a chyfuno'r wybodaeth hon o fewn y sylfaen lenyddol bresennol.
Mae'r dyfarniad Lefel 8 hwn yn addas ar gyfer graddedigion sy'n dymuno parhau i astudio mewn maes penodol.
Gall hyn fod yn lwybr effeithiol i gynnig neu weithredu effaith gadarnhaol ar gymdeithas, diwylliant, yr economi, yr amgylchedd, iechyd a llesiant, ymddygiad, polisi a/neu dechnoleg.
Fel ymchwilydd PhD, byddwch yn cynnal prosiect ymchwil gwreiddiol gyda chefnogaeth tîm goruchwylio.
Daw i ben gydag arholiad Viva Voce o draethawd ymchwil a gyflwynwyd gan yr ymgeisydd.
Mae ymgeiswyr PhD ym Met Caerdydd wedi canolbwyntio ar ystod eang o bynciau gan gynnwys straen galwedigaethol, dylunio sy'n canolbwyntio ar y defnyddiwr, ysgrifennu creadigol, perfformiad athletaidd a phreifatrwydd data.
Hyd a dull astudio: amser llawn 3-4 blynedd, rhan-amser 6-8 mlynedd
Am ragor o wybodaeth, ac i ddarganfod a oes gennym yr arbenigedd i gefnogi eich maes ymchwil arfaethedig, llenwch y ffurflen hon .
Mae hwn yn ddyfarniad Lefel 8 ar gyfer ymchwilwyr sydd â proffil ymchwil sylweddol ym Met Caerdydd, neu mewn cydweithrediad â staff ym Met Caerdydd.
Mae'n cynnwys coladu'r proffil ac ychwanegu dechrau/gorffen gyda naratif beirniadol sy'n cyflwyno ac yn trafod y cyfraniad at wybodaeth a/neu ymarfer.
Byddwch yn cael eich cefnogi gan oruchwyliwr addas.
Daw'r PhD trwy Weithiau Cyhoeddedig i ben gydag arholiad Viva Voce o draethawd ymchwil a gyflwynwyd gan yr ymgeisydd.
Mae'r llwybr hwn yn fwyaf addas ar gyfer academyddion sydd wedi gwneud ymchwil tra'n gweithio ym Met Caerdydd neu mewn Sefydliad Addysg Uwch partner.
Hyd a dull astudio: rhan-amser 1 flwyddyn
Mae'r MPhil yn gymhwyster ymchwil lefel meistr sy'n darparu sgiliau a gwybodaeth ymchwil uwch.
Gall fod yn rhan o PhD neu gallwch astudio ar gyfer cymhwyster annibynnol.
Fel PhD, byddwch yn gwneud ymchwil helaeth yn eich dewis faes a allai gynnwys gwerthuso corff o wybodaeth yn feirniadol.
Fodd bynnag, caiff ei gwblhau dros gyfnod byrrach na PhD ac nid oes angen yr un math o gyfraniad gwreiddiol.
Mae'r pwyslais ar ymchwil annibynnol sy'n arwain at draethawd ymchwil a byddwch yn sefyll arholiad llafar (Viva Voce).
Ar ôl ei gwblhau byddwch mewn sefyllfa wych i symud ymlaen i ymchwil pellach neu gallech symud ymlaen â'ch gyrfa gyda'ch gwybodaeth a'ch sgiliau newydd.
Hyd a dull astudio: amser llawn 1-2 flynedd, rhan-amser 3-4 blynedd

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/research/doctorate-in-applied-forensic-psychology:
The Doctorate in Applied Forensic Psychology is a ‘top-up’ designed for qualified Forensic Psychologists who would like to undertake an applied research project in an area related to the field of forensic psychology.
The Doctorate in Applied Forensic Psychology is only available to Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) registered Forensic Psychologists.
It is designed specifically to develop a qualified individual’s area of specialism post-registration.
HCPC Registration allows applicants to have 360 credits at Level 8 which is recognised as prior learning.
Completion of a 36,000 word research thesis provides the 180 credits required to confer the title of Doctor.
Forensic Psychology practice is highly professional, complex and challenging work.
The Doctorate in Applied Forensic Psychology aims to support the profession through the process of reflective, ethical research practice which makes a substantial contribution to the development of new knowledge, practice techniques, ideas or approaches.
The research will be of a quality to satisfy peer review, extend the forefront of the discipline, and merit publication.
Doctoral researchers will work with a team of supervisors who will support them to submit a research thesis documenting a significantly large piece of research.
The thesis has a word limit of 36,000.
Regular supervision meetings will be held each year, and a thorough review of needs will be established and reviewed each year.
Where students live some distance from Cardiff, the supervision meetings can be facilitated through MS Teams or Zoom.
Throughout the year, students will be able to access additional learning and support activities provided for Doctoral Researchers.
The research thesis is assessed by viva voce examination in line with Doctoral Research Degree regulations.
Applicants are required to be registered as a Forensic Psychologist with the HCPC and will have completed a HCPC approved route to qualification.
International Applicants: Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an IELTS 7.0 standard or equivalent.
Selection Procedure: Selection is normally based on a completed application form, research proposal and interview.
There are two possible intake points a year - April and September.
Applicants wishing to enrol on this programme are encouraged to apply by the end of February and the end of June for each entry point respectively.
For course specific enquiries, please email forensic@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
2 years part time with a 4 year candidature.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/research/mres-art-and-design:
The MRes (A&D), Master of Research in Art & Design is ideal for students who want to prepare for doctoral level research in Art & Design (PhD or Professional Doctorate) or to develop a range of advanced creative research skills to enhance their art or design practice or career, nationally and internationally.
The programme is suitable for students with little or no background experience of research from any field, as well as those with previous experience of professional and/or academic research in Art & Design or a related field.
Our seminar-based teaching is combined with online delivery and assessment.
This means that the programme can be studied flexibly on campus and/or from a remote location.
Students may elect to spend all or some of their time studying on campus or from a remote location and can swap between modes with ease.
Cardiff School of Art & Design has creative research at its heart.
It is home to a range of centres and groups engaged in world-leading creative and interdisciplinary research, drawing upon the Arts, Sciences, Humanities and Philosophies.
You may wish to locate your research project within one of these groups or to develop an independent enquiry.
Multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research collaborations are encouraged.
We support our students to work with other research disciplines, commercial and community sectors in society around the world, as well as research centres across the wider University.
We will work with you to put together a workable and attractive research proposal for further research and study.
We will also help you to connect with other researchers around the world.
The MRes (A&D) is project led.
Students identify a research topic and question/s and build upon that, whilst learning a range of research methods and by testing their ideas in a supportive but rigorous community of artist and designer researchers.
The course begins with no preconception whatsoever with regards to where student projects might start or how they might develop and has an open mind regarding the possibilities of creative research practices in Art & Design.
The programme will familiarise and connect you with our world leading research expertise in Cardiff School of Art & Design.
Our research ranges across the empirical and the scientific to the poetic and speculative, drawing upon the Arts, Sciences, Humanities and Philosophies.
We encourage projects that seek to work in a multidisciplinary, co-disciplinary or transdisciplinary way with other research disciplines as well as commercial and community sectors in society anywhere in the world and of course the other research centres across the wider University.
The programme length is three semesters full time and five semesters part time.
Each of the credited modules runs for one semester:
Full-time students may or may not choose to include a break during the summer.
Students may use this period as they see fit for family time or a vacation, personal research, work experience or to return to employment.
A full-time student starting the programme in October may complete either the following September (by continuing the programme through July and August, 12 months duration) or the following December (when a break is taken over the summer period, 18-month duration).
UK/EU students must notify the programme and school of their intentions prior to commencing the ‘Research Output’ module in semester three.
Students from outside of the UK/EU must notify the Programme, School and International Office prior to initial visa application.
First Semester ART7111
Students begin by undertaking a module that is designed to orientate them around a research idea and territory, to develop their ability to focus and to develop their self-confidence with art and design research in its many forms.
The module is closely taught and supervised around a series of seminars that are conducted in a spirit of open intellectual generosity and rigorous interrogation of ideas.
By the end of the module students will have a clear sense of their research, its feasibility and their place in its developing ‘territory’.
Second Semester
Students then undertake a specialised Research Skills module in the second semester, embedding them more thoroughly and rigorously within a research route.
The research skills training the MRes (A&D) programme offers is designed with students from varied backgrounds in mind.
Besides being suitable for students who already have some experience of research in Art & Design, perhaps at undergraduate level, the programme has been designed to welcome a wider, global, community.
By the end of the module students will have gained the research expertise to underpin their ideas with a clear method of research as well as the skills to interrogate ideas and data.
Third Semester
Students conclude the programme by undertaking a final module which enables them to develop a brief research thesis (in the form of a text supporting a body of practice and/or a text) as well a draft proposal for a generic initial, research degree scoping proposal at Cardiff Met or any other university.
At the end of this module students will have a clear sense of their potential future as a research degree student.
Semester One and Two
A single zero-credited module runs alongside the other modules, providing a series of research and Ideas seminars.
The content of this module is determined by the research activity of CSAD staff.
Staff and PhD/DProf students elect to run a series of seminars, based on their research in art and design, and which will invite further enquiry from students, underpinned by specific theoretical and historical material.
Each speaker is invited to share their research work for 45 minutes, followed by 15 minutes of formal Q&A and then informal discussions.
The programme is designed to be an enriching and rigorous student-centred learning experience, orientated around personalised tutorial support and guidance.
The course is collaborative, intellectually generous and supportive and designed to provide students with an opportunity to engage in thoughtful and sustained reflection, scholarship and focus as well as an opportunity for speculative exploration and inquisitive enquiry.
The programme will accommodate all types of directed and speculative art and design research.
It is designed to enable future doctoral expertise orientated around the development of a research expertise in Art, Design and Architecture.
In keeping with the School’s approach to research, the programme will not specifically distinguish between ‘theory’ and ‘practice’ as modes of research but will take a holistic, broad and inclusive – yet ultimately rigorous – approach to research skills development oriented around – the best way to answer the identified research question.
Students taking the programme can align with specific research and experimental practice pathways, led by academic staff with established practice careers and/or advanced scholarship and research.
The programme is taught entirely through ‘roundtable’ seminars with individualised supervisory meetings.
These seminars enable students to develop a research plan and an individualised programme of learning with individualised supervision towards a creative and rigorous research outcome.
This seminar-based teaching combined with online delivery and assessment means that the programme can be studied flexibly both on campus and/or from a remote location.
Students may elect to spend all their time studying on campus or from a remote location and can change modes of study with ease.
All credited modules are assessed via a ‘portfolio’ comprising coursework, including text and presentation, viva-voce and practice if appropriate and as detailed in the module description, handbook and briefing documentation.
The portfolio assessment is critical to master’s level assessment in Art & Design and is a long-established and widely used methodology in that field.
The portfolio assessment is familiar to undergraduate students and has been used for some years in the other programmes in the School of Art & Design and has proved very successful.
The portfolio assessment is designed with the transdisciplinary and inter-disciplinary nature of Art and Design practice and research in mind.
Art and Design research commonly combines textual material with creative practice in varying amounts, accordingly the portfolio assessment consists of a combination of:
These items are not assessed as individual items but taken as a body of work in a single ‘portfolio’ assessment to arrive at a single summative mark.
It is the responsibility of the student to reflect upon what it is necessary for them to present in their portfolio to meet the learning outcomes and to ensure in their viva voce that they can convey critical insight and depth of knowledge in the connectivity and coherence between the various forms of text-practice-presentation-exhibition.
This programme provides an excellent foundation for a career in creative research, as an arts professional who undertakes any form of research driven practice in their field, or for anyone planning to go on to complete a PhD or DProf.
The programme is ideal for students who want to prepare for doctoral level research in Art & Design or to develop a range of creative research skills to enhance their practice or career, nationally and internationally.
The MRes (A&D) concludes with the development of a Personal Research Development Plan.
This is intended to provide evidence of students’ mastery of research in Art & Design as well as provide a document that can be useful when applying for future Doctoral study at any university.
A good undergraduate honours degree (2.1 or above) is normally required for entry.
However, applicants with relevant professional experience or qualifications are welcomed and will be considered individually and students who have a weaker overall undergraduate degree but who have demonstrated excellence in the theoretical aspects of Art & Design will also be considered.
International Applicants:
Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an IELTS 6.5 (6.5 listening and 6.0 in each other element) standard or equivalent.
For full details about how to apply and English Language qualifications, please visit the International pages on the website.
Selection Procedure:
Once a student application has been received, they may be invited in person or via Microsoft Teams (or similar) for a short meeting with the Programme Director or nominee to discuss the programme in more detail and consider how the programme will suit their background and future needs.
How to Apply:
For further information please visit our How to Apply pages .
Before making an application, EU/International students are asked to contact Dr Fiaz Hussain ( fhussain@cardiffmet.ac.uk ) to discuss the necessary procedures in relation to studying with us.
If you are interested in using credit from another institution or have obtained qualifications and/or experience to study for a course at Cardiff Met, you can find further information on this as well as information on how to apply on the RPL page .
For up-to-date information on tuition fees and the financial support that may be available, please refer to www.cardiffmet.ac.uk/fees .
Part-time Fees:
Charges are per Single Module unless specified: Undergraduate = 10 Credits; Postgraduate = 20 Credits.
If you are a UK/EU student, please contact Dr Stephen Thompson ( sthompson@cardiffmet.ac.uk ).
If you are an International student, please contact Dr Fiaz Hussain ( fhussain@cardiffmet.ac.uk ).
Cardiff School of Art & Design
12 or 18 months full time.
24 months part time.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/research/mres-sport-and-health-sciences:
This degree will undergo a periodic review in 2025 to ensure the course content is and remains current.
Should any changes to course content be made as a result of the review, all applicants will be informed once changes are confirmed.
Pathways available:
The Master of Research (MRes) programme provides high quality and professionally relevant training in research methods and analysis for health, psychology and biomedical science graduates.
Through the taught modules students will develop their research skills, including critically appraising literature, developing research proposals, laboratory techniques, project management, presenting findings (through oral, written and digital media) and applying for funding.
Students will be introduced to a wide range of methodologies and practical techniques relevant to their discipline.
Training will be provided in research governance and ethical procedures to ensure students are prepared for work as professional researchers.
Students will conduct two substantial research studies in a topic of their choice, supervised by experienced members of academic staff.
These studies will be written up in the form of journal articles and will form a substantial component of the credits for the MRes award.
This award prepares you for a future in research and progression on to PhD studies.
Students will complete the following modules – according to their chosen pathway – over the course of one full year (full time) or two years (part time).
The modules are intended to prepare you for subject-specific study while also developing your skills as a researcher.
All pathways include the modules Dissertation (MRes), which is 120 credits, and Developing Skills for a Career in Research, which is 20 credits.
Dissertation:
The dissertation (120 credits of the 180 credits for the whole programme) will involve all the elements of the research process from the design of the study, data collection, analysis of findings and write up in the format of a journal article.
Students will be supervised by two members of staff to complete their dissertation.
Students will be matched with appropriate staff members who have expertise in the chosen topic and/or methodology.
Each pathway then has the following other 20 credit modules to make them up to 180 credits.
Master of Research (Biomedical Science) – MRes / PGCert
Master of Research (Psychology) – MRes / PGCert
Master of Research (Health) – MRes / PGCert
Master of Research (Strength & Conditioning) – MRes / PGCert
Please contact the Programme Director, Jeremy Moody ( jmoody@cardiffmet.ac.uk ).
Master of Research (Stroke) – MRes / PGCert
Master of Research (Critical Social Sciences of Sport, Health and Education) – MRes / PGCert
The MRes programme comprises 180 credits of which 120 are gained from completing a dissertation proposal and dissertation on the student’s chosen topic.
Therefore, the programme is largely independent research, with the support of academic supervisors.
The specialised research taught modules ensure you will be equipped with the knowledge, practical and professional skills to engage in your chosen research area and to provide you with a broader knowledge base of research methodologies.
The taught modules will involve a variety of different learning and teaching methods including lectures, seminars, small group work, workshops, online learning, tutorials and self-directed learning.
Each student will be allocated two members of staff to supervise their dissertation and a separate personal tutor.
Your personal tutor will support you with pastoral care and advice for career planning, e.g., supporting you to complete a personal development plan.
Each module has its own form of assessment.
Most modules are assessed via coursework, including research reviews, reports, essays and presentations.
The dissertation will be written up in the format of two journal articles or a thesis, in agreement with your supervisors.
MRes graduates will be well placed for PhD level study or a career that involves carrying out, critically appraising or applying research findings.
Evidence based practice means that a knowledge and understanding of research is essential in all health-related domains so that health care providers can interpret previous research findings, as well as contributing to the process of designing and carrying out research projects.
Graduates will also be well equipped in roles which involve scientific writing, analysis of research, designing or administering research projects and development of research portfolios.
A good honours degree (normally 2.1 or above) in a health or social science subject is normally required.
However, applicants with relevant professional experience or qualifications are welcomed and will be considered individually.
Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an IELTS 6.5 standard or equivalent.
Once your application has been received you will be invited for a short meeting with the Programme Director to discuss the course in more detail and consider which is the most appropriate programme route to suit your background and future needs.
Please note there are costs in addition to the course fee for this programme.
Further information can be accessed here .
Generally, we find most students will complete 60 credits per year for both Undergraduate and Postgraduate study; to obtain a true costing please clarify this by contacting the Programme Director directly.
For general enquiries, please contact the Admissions Team on 029 2041 6044 or email askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
For course specific enquiries, please contact the Programme Director, Professor Sarah Curran ( scurran@cardiffmet.ac.uk ).
For Master of Research (Strength & Conditioning), please contact Jeremy Moody ( jmoody@cardiffmet.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/research/mres-education--social-policy:
The MRes at Cardiff Met provides you with both the theoretical and practical training needed to thrive as an advanced researcher.
There are two study options available:
This MRes taught programme will provide you with the advanced research skills for you to critically analyse, interrogate, and research, either contemporary societal problems and policy issues, or undertake education research.
The MRes is suited for graduates from across a range of subjects including Education, Social Policy, Housing, Health and Social Care, Politics, Sociology, and other Social Sciences disciplines.
It is also suited for graduates from other disciplines who want to develop advanced social research skills, and those wishing to develop a career in education or social policy research.
During the MRes you will identify and undertake a substantial independent research project.
Throughout you will develop your ability as an advanced researcher, gaining hands on experience in both qualitative and quantitative approaches.
You will be supported to develop and apply your skills as a critical thinker and also gain experience of tailoring your dissemination from your research findings.
The MRes Education or MRes Social Policy will advance your intellectual and practical research abilities and will help you to develop the skills and experiences that are in high demand in many fields of employment.
The MRes Education is designed for those developing careers in applied education research.
The MRes Education is well suited for those working, or interested to work, in:
The MRes Education is especially suited for graduates from Education, Social Policy, Health and Social Care, Sociology, and other Social Sciences disciplines.
It is also well suited for professionals who work with learners of any age, in settings such as children’s centres, nurseries, schools, colleges, universities and hospitals.
Plus, graduates from other disciplines who want to develop advanced social research skills, and those wishing to develop a career in education research.
The MRes is aimed at those who are interested in interrogating the social world around them.
The MRes Social Policy is designed for those developing careers in applied research and policy and well suited for those working, or interested to work, in:
The MRes Social Policy is especially suited for graduates from Housing, Social Policy, Politics, Health and Social Care, Sociology, and other Social Sciences disciplines.
It is also suited for those graduates from other disciplines who want to develop advanced social research skills, and those wishing to develop a career in social research and policy.
You will study the following modules:
Upon successful completion of 180 credits, you will be awarded an MRes in Social Policy or MRes in Education.
The MRes framework offers a high-quality learning experience that provides the students with the opportunity to work with research active members of staff in the design and development of projects that provide critical insights within their subject specialism.
This is a taught research programme and it prepares students for a career in research operating as independent researchers.
The taught element of the framework is research-informed and contextualised to provide the foundations of subsequent research activity within the subject specialisms.
The distinctive feature of the programme is the 20-credit module requiring MRes students to present at the CSESP’s annual Pg-R Student Conference.
Other distinctive features include: i) the dissertation elements, which are largely self-directed with the support of a supervising team, and ii) the final dissertation submission requirements in the form of a draft journal article in readiness for potential review and publication, or a policy report for attention of policy makers.
The real-life nature of this is an attractive feature.
Throughout the MRes Education or MRes Social Policy a variety of teaching and learning methods will be used.
These methods include lectures, seminars, small group work, workshops, online learning, tutorials, and self-directed learning as well as conducting independent research under the supervision of experienced members of staff.
Standard lectures are used to enable core knowledge and understanding content to be delivered to the whole module cohort.
This is supplemented with Seminars and Workshops to allow exploration of all aspects of module content (knowledge, understanding, skills and other attributes) in an interactive and discursive group setting.
A significant amount of work will be required by the students through independent learning and self-study.
Such study enables students to independently develop their understanding of the module concepts and to complete formative and summative exercises.
The programme features extensive one-to-one supervision to discuss and contextualise the taught elements, as well as develop the students independent research project.
The programme is also supported via the Moodle VLE, which provides access to key materials, handouts and research papers.
The MRes Programme Director will provide strategic leadership and direction during the course.
They will be available to each student who has specific issues regarding course content and structure.
Each student will also be allocated a Supervisor at the outset of the programme.
Students are expected to liaise with their Supervisor during the taught component, and to keep them abreast of progress via regular ‘milestone review meetings’.
Taught sessions will take place at both the Llandaff and Cyncoed campuses.
The majority of teaching will be at Llandaff.
A range of assessment types has been incorporated across the MRes programme; this allows for different skillsets to be accommodated.
The Assessment strategy has been designed to provide students with a variety of challenges appropriate to postgraduate level.
The assessment strategy provides students with the opportunity to demonstrate the knowledge and skills that are required to be awarded the relevant degree, as well as the skills needed to continue to doctoral research or enter employment as a highly skilled researcher.
Assessment methods are designed to give students the opportunity to demonstrate their knowledge and understanding of theoretical, applied and professional practice issues and include coursework essays, research reports, presentations and critique.
The MRes Education or MRes Social Policy includes assessments that are geared towards preparing the students for a future in advanced research.
For example, students will be required to present at CSESP’s annual PGR conference.
This provides students with experience of presenting research in a ‘live’ but safe environment.
The final research project also takes an authentic approach.
Students are invited to either submit a draft manuscript to a peer-reviewed journal or produce a report for the attention of policy makers.
The real-life nature of this outward facing form of assessment is a unique selling point and equips students with skills needed for doctoral research or employment as a highly skilled researcher.
All tutors on the programme are active researchers.
The MRes combines a strong theoretical focus with a core of technical competencies, providing students with the opportunity to develop as effective, reflective professionals.
On completion, students should be able conduct competent research, as well as the transferable project management skills commensurate with independent research and in managing large research projects.
It is intended that the programme will make both a significant contribution to individual professional development and a general contribution to innovation and creativity in a range of professional fields.
Successful completion of the MRes Education or MRes Social Policy signals to employers advanced scholarship.
MRes Education
The MRes Education is designed for those developing careers in applied education research and is well suited for those working, or interested to work, in:
Successful participants could be eligible to apply for an MPhil/PhD programme at Cardiff Metropolitan University, or other institutions.
MRes Social Policy
The MRes Social Policy is designed for those developing careers in applied research and policy and is well suited for those working, or interested to work, in:
The MRes Social Policy will provide training and competitive edge within the policy, charitable organisations and private consultancy sectors.
It will also provide a route to further postgraduate training, e.g., doctoral study.
You will normally be expected to have at least a 2:1 undergraduate degree or equivalent qualification.
You will also be considered if you have relevant work experience and deemed to have academic potential.
International Applicants: Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an academic IELTS 6.0 standard with no sub-score lower than 5.5 or equivalent.
For course specific enquiries, please contact the Programme Director, Dr Alex Vickery:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/research/mres-management:
This course provides for advanced research study in the field of Management.
It aims to provide aspiring managers and business specialists with key insights into research theory and practice within the management discipline.
Specifically, the objectives of this course are:
Students will study 180 credits of specialist study in a range of Management topics.
The course is made up of 80 credits of taught study followed by a 100-credit research-based thesis.
The following modules will be studied:
The MRes is awarded on successful completion of all taught elements as well as submission of a 25,000-word Research Dissertation.
The exit point for this programme will be the Postgraduate Certificate gained through the successful completion of 60 credits of study from an approved master’s programme at the University.
This is supplemented with seminars/workshops to allow exploration of all aspects of module content (knowledge, understanding, skills and other attributes) in an interactive and discursive group setting.
The programme features extensive one-to-one supervision to discuss and contextualise the taught theories with student ideas on how their research projects will progress.
This is supported via the Moodle VLE, which provides access to key materials, handouts and research papers.
The research thesis will encourage students to work within organisations to apply their research work into a real-life setting.
Part-time students will be expected to apply their research in their place of work so that companies will benefit from the investment made in attending the course.
The course Programme Director will provide strategic leadership and direction during the taught component of the course.
S/he will be available to each student who has specific issues regarding course content and structure.
Students are expected to liaise with their Supervisor during the taught component, and to keep him/her abreast of progress via regular ‘milestone review meetings’.
All 20-credit taught module assessment within the School is based upon 4,000 words or equivalent.
The 100-credit (RES7000) Research Dissertation module includes the production of a 16,000-word research dissertation and 4,000-word Reflective Practice Report.
The dissertation is tested via a viva voce examination.
It is expected that many graduates from this course will go on to undertake research degree programmes and obtain senior positions within a range of businesses as managers/directors.
The programme is designed for graduates from a range of different disciplines.
The specific entry requirements include:
Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an IELTS 6.5 standard (with minimum 6.5 in the Reading and Writing components) or equivalent.
Students are normally selected based on:
Applicants will be asked to attend for interview if the research proposal and application stage is acceptable.
Interviews can be held via Skype or phone with the Programme Director and Graduate Studies Co-ordinator before any offer is made.
Applications for this course should be made direct to the University via our self-service application system.
For course specific enquiries, please contact csmresearch@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
12-16 months.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/research/doctorate-in-management:
It aims to provide aspiring managers and business specialists with key insights in to research theory and practice within the management discipline.
Specifically the objectives of this course are:
Students will study 540 credits of specialist study in a range of Management and research topics.
The course is made up of 240 credits of taught study followed by a 300 credit research-based thesis.
The DMan is awarded on successful completion of all taught elements as well as submission of a 50,000 word Research Thesis, 5,000 word Reflective Practice Report and successful viva voce defence of the thesis.
The modules contained within this course use a range of teaching and learning approaches.
The research thesis will encourage students to work within organisations in order to apply their research work in to a real life setting.
The course Programme Director will provide strategic leadership and direction to the course during the taught component of the course.
Each student will also be allocated a Supervisory Team (Director of Studies and Second Supervisor) at the outset of the programme.
Students are expected to liaise with their Supervisory Team during the taught component, and to keep them abreast of progress via regular ‘milestone review meetings’.
All 20 credit taught module assessment is based upon 4,000 words or equivalent.
The 60 credit ‘Research Paper and Proposal’ module involves the production of a 7,000 word research paper and subsequent presentation at a suitable conference or academic gathering, along with the production of a concise, 1,500 word Research Degree Proposal.
The 300 credit ‘Research Thesis’ module includes the production of a 50,000 word research thesis and 5,000 word Reflective Analysis Report.
The thesis is tested via a traditional viva voce examination.
All assessments are submitted via the Moodle VLE and are checked automatically by the Turnitin anti-plagiarism software application.
Extensive feedback is provided on every assessment.
It is expected that many graduates from this course will go on to undertake research degree programmes and also obtain senior positions within a range of businesses as managers/directors.
International Applicants: Students whose first language is not English will need to provide evidence of fluency to at least an IELTS 6.5 standard (with minimum 6.5 in the Reading and Writing components) or equivalent.
Selection Procedure: Students are normally selected on the basis of:
5 years part time.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ehangu-mynediad:
​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Nod tîm Ehangu Mynediad Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yw sicrhau bod pobl o unrhyw gefndir neu grŵp ethnig dros 18 oed yn cael cyfle teg a chyfartal i astudio yma mewn modd â chymorth.
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i sicrhau y dylai pawb sydd â'r penderfyniad, y sgiliau a'r awydd i gael mynediad i Addysg Uwch allu gwneud hynny.
Os ydych chi'n fyfyriwr aeddfed, yn ddysgwr sy'n oedolyn neu â diddordeb mewn dysgu yn eich cymuned ac eisiau rhoi cynnig ar gwrs byr ar gyfer symud ymlaen i'r brifysgol, yna gallwn ni helpu.
Rydym yn gweithio gyda chymunedau sy'n cynnig cyfleoedd hygyrch a hyblyg i ddysgwyr anhraddodiadol.
Mae'r cyrsiau a gynigir yn rhaglenni dysgu rhan-amser, bach eu maint sydd wedi'u cynllunio i ehangu cyfranogiad i addysg uwch.
Cliciwch yma i weld ein Llyfryn Cyrsiau Ehangu Mynediad​ sy'n cynnwys gwybodaeth bellach am ein holl gyrsiau a'r cyfleoedd dilyniant sydd ar gael.​
​Mae ein cyrsiau byr ar agor i bob oedolyn dros 18 oed.
Fodd bynnag, rhoddir blaenoriaeth i ddysgwyr sydd:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/widening-access/accredited-courses:
To enrol on the following free accredited courses, you must have a minimum level of English, such as GCSE grade C or IELTS 6.0 or equivalent.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/widening-access/non-accredited-courses:
To enrol on the following free non-accredited courses, there is no minimum entry requirement.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/widening-access/reaching-wider:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is a partner in HEFCW’s Reaching Wider Programme.
This national programme, funded by the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW), aims to increase higher education participation from under-represented groups by raising educational aspirations and skills, and creating innovative study opportunities and learning pathways to higher education.
Awareness of progression routes and potential career opportunities are integral to each project / programme that is delivered, giving an enriched, more rounded learning experience, demonstrating that university is an option for all.
For further information, please visit the Reaching Wider website or contact our Reaching Wider team at reachingwider@cardiffmet.ac.uk .​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/widening-access/contact-us:
For further information on any of the courses we deliver and for general enquiries/bookings telephone 029 2020 1563 or email wideningaccess@cardiffmet.ac.uk .​
​Please visit the Reaching Wider website at www.firstcampus.org or contact our Reaching Wider team at reachingwider@cardiffmet.ac.uk .​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ehangu-mynediad/ysgol-haf:
Diolch i'r holl ddysgwyr a fynychodd ein Hysgol Haf a gynhaliwyd rhwng 16 a 27 Mehefin 2025.
Cawsom amser gwych yn eich croesawu chi gyd.
Am ragor o wybodaeth am gyrsiau yn y dyfodol ac Ysgol Haf, cofrestrwch ar gyfer ein cylchlythyr isod:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ysgol-gelf-a-dylunio/ysgol-gelf-agored-caerdydd:
Helo a Chroeso i Ysgol Gelf Agored Caerdydd.
Mae gan COAS enw rhagorol am ei chyrsiau Celf a Dylunio byr o ansawdd uchel.
Bydd eich angerdd, syniadau a sgiliau yn cael eu mireinio a'u gwella wrth i chi ddysgu technegau, sgiliau a phrosesau creadigol newydd gyda ffrindiau newydd.
Efallai y bydd y dosbarthiadau yma’n fodd i rai ddechrau ar gyfeiriad gyrfa newydd, neu’n hytrach yn hobi neu'n ddiddordeb yr ydych wedi bod yn awyddus i’w ddatblygu a dysgu mwy amdano.
Beth bynnag fo'ch rheswm dros wneud cais i COAS, chewch chi ’mo’ch siomi, a bydd yr ystod o waith a gyflawnir yn ystod eich cwrs yn eich cyffroi.
P’un ai os ydych chi'n artist neu'n ddylunydd profiadol, yn paratoi portffolio ar gyfer cais am radd neu raglen Sylfaen neu os nad ydych chi wedi codi pensil yn eich bywyd, mae gennym rywbeth i'w gynnig i chi felly mae'r cyrsiau a’r gweithdai yn ffordd wych o roi cynnig ar sgiliau newydd neu ddatblygu eich arferion ymhellach.
Mae COAS wedi’i lleoli yng nghanol Ysgol Gelf a Dylunio Caerdydd, Ysgol Gelf sydd wedi’i seilio gadarn ar 150 mlynedd o hanes a’r egwyddor o arbrofi creadigol ac ymarfer.
Mae gan ein stiwdios a'n gweithdai offer proffesiynol sy’n hygyrch i'n myfyrwyr eu defnyddio o dan oruchwyliaeth arbenigol tîm deinamig o diwtoriaid – pob un ohonynt yn ymarferwyr a chanddynt enw da yn eu meysydd astudio arbenigol.
Mae cyrsiau'n rhedeg drwy gydol y flwyddyn ar ein campws yn Llandaf, gan ddechrau fel rheol bob Tymor yr Hydref, y Gwanwyn a'r Haf.
Mae'r wybodaeth fwyaf ddiweddar am y cyrsiau sy’n cael eu rhedeg a phryd i'w chael bob amser yn adran cyrsiau gwefan COAS.
I gofrestru ar gyfer ein rhestr bostio a derbyn diweddariadau am ein rhaglen gyrsiau, e-bostiwch eich manylion cyswllt at coas@cardiffmet.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-art-and-design/cardiff-open-art-school/courses:
Cardiff Open Art School opens its doors again in Autumn 2025 with a whole range of fantastic learning opportunities available.
From pottery to painting, drawing to design thinking, photography, printmaking and craft courses, there is something for everyone.
It doesn't matter if you're an experienced artist or designer, are preparing a portfolio to apply for a degree or Foundation programme, or if you've never picked up a pencil before, the courses and workshops are a great way of both trying out new skills or further developing your practice.
Please note that, unless otherwise stated within the course description, our courses are open to those aged 18 and over.
All courses are available to book now .
Please note: ​Each course must reach a minimum number of bookings to run (8 usually).
The University will ask you whether you’re interested in taking part in a course through the medium of Welsh as part of this process.
You can book directly onto any course you like via the Cardiff Met online store, which is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and places are on a first come, first served basis.
We will still be able to help process bookings over the phone on weekdays, during office hours, if required.
Please note that bookings for all courses will close exactly one week prior to the start of the course.
To sign up for our mailing list and receive updates on our programme of courses, email your contact details to coas@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Date: Wednesdays, starts 01 October 2025, 7.00-9.00pm
Course length: 10 sessions *
Price: £225
Tutor: Christopher Holloway
Level: Beginner/Intermediate
Develop your drawing skills within a studio setting by exploring a range of different methods and approaches to drawing, in a creative and supportive environment.
Working from observation, the course will cover a study of line, tone, shape, texture, scale and composition.
Subject matter will include still life, the figure, interior space and a range of observational drawing scenarios.
This course will focus on the principles of drawing and developing our skills in observation and ways of seeing.
This is a taught class within a studio environment, whereby experimentation is encouraged and where you can learn through drawing itself.
One to one tuition and feedback will be provided throughout.
Students should bring with them : One box of willow charcoal, some drawing pencils and an eraser for the first session, A1 white cartridge paper will be available at the class.
Tuition will be provided with regard to materials, so it is advisable not to purchase unnecessarily before the course commences.
*Please note that there will be a break week on Wednesday 29 October (for Half Term) and courses will resume the following week, meaning that the last session will take place Wednesday 10 December
Book Now
Date: Tuesdays, starts 30 September 2025, 7:00-9:00pm
Price: £240
Level: All Levels
Life drawing offers the opportunity to draw and study the human form over ten focused classes.
This is an open to all class, which will appeal to all levels including beginners.
The classes are structured to give a diverse range of poses to draw from, both short and extended.
The course will include set exercises which will give you the opportunity to experiment and engage in a range of approaches to drawing.
Each session will give you the opportunity to develop and refine your own response to drawing the figure.
*Please note that there will be a break week on Tuesday 28 October (for Half Term) and courses will resume the following week, meaning that the last session will take place Tuesday 9 Decembe
This unique course invites individuals of all artistic levels to explore the intersection of creativity and the mind-body connection.
Whether you're an art enthusiast, a beginner seeking new adventures, or you are interested in integrating art into your day-to-day life, this course is designed for you!
The course does not require any kind of previous drawing or artistic skill - It's all about the process: basically, if you can draw lines, you can make Neurographic Art.
You will be drawn into the is meditative process of art making the course is ideal for both art enthusiasts and anyone interested in mindfulness and well-being.
Neurographic Art combines psychology and art and aims to help to reduce stress, transform subconscious beliefs and create an overall sense of well-being.
Discover the therapeutic benefits as you create vibrant artworks, promoting relaxation and stress reduction.
The only prerequisite for joining the course is curiosity.
Optional: Watercolour pencils, watercolour, crayons, gel pens
Visionary & Symbolic Art: A Two-Day Creative Journey
Explore your inner world through intuitive mark-making, sacred symbols, and surreal imagery.
Join artist-led sessions designed to awaken your imagination and unlock your personal visual language.
Over two immersive Saturdays, you’ll be guided through a gentle but rich process of discovery — from dream-inspired sketching and automatic drawing to working with mandalas, sacred geometry, and symbolic storytelling.
Using a mix of media, you’ll learn to combine motifs and forms into an expressive composition that’s uniquely yours.
This is an inclusive, supportive course ideal for all levels — whether you're a beginner, returning to art after a break, or looking to deepen your creative practice in new ways.
Above materials typically available from your local independent art supplies shop or; WHSmith, The Works, Hobbycraft etc.
Some other materials will be available as back up for attendees Why not keep a dream journal on the run up to the course?
Date: Saturday 18 and Sunday 19 October 2025, 10:30am -3:00pm
Course length: Weekend
Price: £150
Level: Intermediate / Advanced
Figurative painting has remained a popular subject matter throughout the history of art and maintains its importance as a subject for painting today.
‘Painting the human figure’ offers the opportunity to study the human form over two days.
This class will explore the technical aspects of painting in oil or acrylic with a study of composition, mixing practice, colour and observation.
We will be working with a variety of techniques in order to produce a final composition(s), starting with preliminary sketching and drawing to gain an understanding of the placement of the figure within the environment.
We will be exploring compositional values in response to observation, strengthening the understanding of the painting’s structure and balance, and developing forward to working with colour and tone as a way of controlling light.
The class will be suitable for those with some painting experience and wishing to develop their practice in response to the figure, whilst seeking tuition with regards to the technical and formal aspects of painting the figure from life.
This is a taught class within a studio environment, where one to one tuition and feedback will be provided throughout.
What do Students need to bring with them?
Students to bring with them: Student or Artist Quality Oil / Acrylic Colour:
Students may bring additional colours if they wish.
Also: rags, palette, palette knives, masking tape, flat and or round brushes - if possible sizes 2, 4 and 8, low odour artist white spirit or turpentine (for oil painters), brush washing jar, drawing materials (pencil, charcoal, eraser), an apron may be useful.
Various sized surfaces to paint onto such as – Primed canvas, canvas board, primed oil paper / acrylic paper pad, primed boards, whichever you feel comfortable using.
Date: Mondays, starting 29 September 2025, 6:00-8:00pm
Course length: 6 sessions *
Price: £175
Tutor: Nikolett Kovacs
Level: All Welcome
Designed for all skill levels, this course will guide you through the vibrant world of acrylics, offering hands-on techniques, color mixing, and brushwork mastery.
Whether you're a beginner or looking to refine your artistic skills, this course offers a step-by-step approach to mastering acrylic techniques and provides personalized guidance to develop your own unique style.
Join a supportive and relaxed environment where you can explore, create, and connect with other aspiring artists.
In the small class size you will get constructive feedback from the tutor and have inspiring conversations with fellow hobby artists.
The final the work you choose to develop is based on your own interests, you can explore what inspires you and find your own unique artistic style.
Week by week breakdown:
1.
Getting started - Introduction & Basics
2.
Composition & Blocking in a Landscape
3.
Sky, Depth & Perspective in Landscapes
4.
Landforms, Water, Reflection & Textures
5.
Trees, Grass & Natural Textures
6.
Final Project & Personal Style
What do students need to bring with them?
I recommend using larger tubes, and good student grade paint to avoid disappointment.
*Please note that there will be break week Monday 27 October (for Half Term) courses will resume the following week, meaning that the last session will take place Monday 10 November
Date: Saturday 15 and Sunday 16 November 2025, 10:30am -3:00pm
Still Life Painting has remained a popular subject matter throughout the history of art and maintains its importance as a subject for painting today.
‘Still Life Painting – Composition and Colour’ is a two-day class which explores the technical aspects of painting in oil or acrylic, with a study of composition, colour mixing practice, and observation.
Working with everyday objects brought into the studio space for their possibilities of colour, shape, shadow and line.
We will work with a variety of approaches to observation, including preliminary sketching and how to select and improve upon a composition.
Experimenting with initial colour studies will and enhance our understanding of mixing practice, all of which will lead us to producing a final painting composition(s).
The class will be suitable for those who wish to develop their painting experience with oil or acrylic, whilst seeking tuition with regards to the technical and formal aspects of painting objects in space, from life.
This is a taught class within a studio environment, where one to one tuition and feedback will be provided throughout the experience.
Date: Thursdays from 02 October 2025, 6:00 - 8:00pm
Course length: 10 sessions*
Level: beginner/ intermediate
The Introduction to Watercolour is a perfect opportunity for hobby artists to learn foundational techniques and develop their skills.
You don’t need to be an experienced painter, this is a place to learn and find joy in the creative process, make new friends who love expressing their creativity just like you do!
The aim of the course is to explore essential techniques and build your confidence and skills through easy-to-follow, step-by-step lessons.
From mastering basic brush strokes to understanding color mixing, our tutor breaks down each concept into manageable chunks.
A broad subject range will be covered including still life, landscapes, and pet portraits.
The lessons are structured around a central theme.
In the small size classes you will get constructive feedback from the tutor and have inspiring conversations with fellow hobby artists.
The final work you choose to develop is based on your own interests, you can explore what inspires you and find your own unique artistic style.
*Please note that there will be break week Thursday 30 October (for Half Term) courses will resume the following week, meaning that the last session will take place Thursday 11 December
Date: Tuesdays, starting 30 September 2025, 7:00-9:00pm
Course length: 10 Sessions
Price: £230
Tutor: Russell John
Level: Beginner / Intermediate
Reduction linocut printing was popularised by Picasso and his master printer Hidalgo Arnéra.
It is a bold and usually colourful relief print technique.
In this course you will be guided through the development and production of a series of reduction linocut prints.
Using sketches, found imagery and photographs we will create personal compositions which embrace the inherent restrictions of reduction linocut printing and harness its bold and colourful appearance.
Each week we will respond to what we have previously created and build upon successes, allowing us to create an edition of prints which take advantage of this wonderful technique.
Found imagery and/or personal imagery, photocopies, cuttings from magazines
Other advice will be given during first session.
Date: Thursdays starting 03 October 2025, 7:00-9:00pm
Level: beginner / Intermediate
Collagraph printmaking is a great way to bring texture, playfulness and improvisation to your images.
It allows us to do things that are quite difficult in other printmaking processes, such as ‘jigsawing’ different pieces of image together, using relief and intaglio technique together, and using a whole range of everyday tools to achieve interesting and immediate texture and mark making.
During this 10 week course you will be introduced to the fundamentals of printmaking and how these techniques apply to collagraph.
Each week you will develop, edit and refine complex images whilst being guided through this interesting process.
By the end of the course you will have produced a series of collagraph prints in a variety of colours and compositions.
Scalpel and/or Stanley knife
Drawing pencils
Found imagery and/or personal imagery, photocopies, cuttings from magazines.
Other advice will be given during first session

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/prentisiaethau-gradd:
Mae Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yn cynnig ystod o brentisiaethau gradd.
Ariennir y rhaglenni yn llawn gan Lywodraeth Cymru a gall gweithwyr ennill gradd yn eu disgyblaeth ddewisol dros gyfnod o 3 blynedd.
Ar hyn o bryd mae’r Brifysgol yn cynnig prentisiaethau gradd mewn nifer o ddisgyblaethau digidol ac yn bwriadu ehangu’r cynnig hwn yn y dyfodol agos yn unol â datblygiadau gan Lywodraeth Cymru.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships/information-for-apprentices:
A Degree Apprenticeship is an alternative to traditional university study that combines the work-based element of an apprenticeship with the academic framework of a Higher Education qualification.
A Degree Apprenticeship offers the apprentice an opportunity to study for their academic qualification while working full time with an employer, gaining real-world experience in their chosen career path whilst at the same time gaining their qualification.
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s School of Technologies offers Degree Apprenticeships fully funded by the Welsh Government for 3 years.
There are no tuition fees for the apprentice undertaking the degree, and employers only need to commit one day per week for their employee/apprentice to study at Cardiff Met.
The University also works closely with training provider ALS to offer those who have studied a level 4 qualification in Data Analytics the opportunity to enter level 5 of the University programme and will also consider previous qualifications and experience of all candidates in relation to potential module exemptions via Recognising Prior Learning (RPL).
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s School of Technologies currently offers the following degree apprenticeship opportunities:
Hear from some of our students about their experience studying at Cardiff Met:
Degree Apprenticeships are fully funded by the Welsh Government.
To be eligible for the programme:
The University does have a number of guideline course entry requirements, however these are flexible due to the nature of the course and can be discussed on a case by case basis.
The entry requirements for programmes can be found under the ‘What Apprenticeships Are Available’ section above by selecting the relevant course.
Vacancies for apprenticeships are advertised by our employer partners directly, as to be eligible for the degree apprenticeship you must have the support of an employer.
However, as we work with our employer partners and new vacancies arise, we will be posting the relevant links to the employer website and application processes below.
If you are an existing employee of a business and wish to have a conversation about undertaking an apprenticeship please contact our Degree Apprenticeships team at apprenticeships@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Our team will talk you through available options and the application process.
If you are looking for a new apprenticeships and would like to know more about apprenticeships in general and employers currently recruiting, please check the vacancies page above for live vacancies or contact apprenticeships@cardiffmet.ac.uk for further information.
The University does not create/manage the apprenticeship vacancies, but will make them visible to candidates as they arise.
The University has produced a number of short recordings designed to provide an overview of our apprenticeship programmes:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships/information-for-employers:
A Degree Apprenticeship offers apprentices/employees the opportunity to study part time for an academic qualification while working full time with an employer, gaining real-world experience in their chosen career path.
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s School of Technologies offers Degree Apprenticeships fully funded by the Welsh Government.
To register your interest and to discuss further with a member of our team, please contact apprenticeships@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
The following resources will be useful for employers looking at degree apprenticeships as a way to develop talent.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau/cyrsiau-byr:
Rydym yn cynnig nifer o gyrsiau byr ar draws y Brifysgol mewn ystod eang o bynciau.
Gallech ymuno ag Ysgol Gelf Agored Caerdydd i fireinio eich doniau artistig, neu rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o gyrsiau datblygiad proffesiynol ac arweinyddiaeth mewn busnes, marchnata, addysg a gwaith cymdeithasol.
Mae Met Caerdydd hefyd yn cynnal cyrsiau cymunedol, ynghyd ag ysgol haf sy’n cynnig cyfleoedd hygyrch i oedolion sy’n dysgu.
Darganfyddwch fwy ar ein tudalennau Ehangu Mynediad .
Mae cyrsiau byr yn newid yn rheolaidd felly gwiriwch yn ôl yma i weld beth sydd ar gael.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate:
Llandaff, Online

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/research:
Llandaff, Cyncoed

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/introduction-to-photography:
Date: Tuesdays, starts 29 April 2025, 6.00-9.00pm Course length: 10 sessions (10 x 3 hours sessions) Price: £660 Level: Beginner Credits: 20
This course is delivered in association with Ffotogallery
Develop an understanding of camera control and an ability to make photographic images through controlled pre-visualisation.
This course will encourage students to develop a knowledge of simple camera equipment and materials alongside a visual literacy that will develop a personal approach to picture making and the ability to critically reflect on the visual and cultural implications that underpin the practice of photography.
It will provide practical skills in photographic techniques including exposure control, capturing movement, depth of field, using flash and concepts of composition.
Each student will produce an individual photographic project, employing the skills gained and critically reflecting the results.
On successful completion of this short course, students will be able to:
A Digital DSLR with full manual controls, tripod and appropriate media storage (e.g.
SD cards, external drive)
The application form will ask you to confirm you have made arrangements with Cardiff Met for payment.
You will be contacted to complete payment following a formal acceptance onto the course and will not be able to enrol until payment has been completed.
Enrol now

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/20twenty-leadership-and-management-cmi-level-4:
The programme duration is 5 days over 4 months.
Each group of delegates participate in a series of Workshops, Action Learning Sets and Masterclasses, focusing on key areas such as:
The programme is part funded by the UK Government.
For course specific enquiries or to apply, please contact, Christopher Byrne:
See also https://20twentybusinessgrowth.com/ .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/20twenty-leadership-and-management-pgc-and-cmi-level-7:
The 20Twenty professional Leadership & Management qualification at Cardiff Met is designed specifically for large organisations and SMEs.
The overall aim of the management training programme is to promote sustainable business growth by developing the critical leadership, business and management skills that employees need to meet the formidable expansion challenges facing businesses throughout the UK.
More than 1,500 Welsh business have benefited from the programme so far, with more than 90 percent reporting an increase in sales turnover, employment, productivity and profits.
The leadership qualification based in Cardiff is 10 days over 10 months.
The first half of the programme is designed to acknowledge and develop your own leadership style through a series of practical workshops and individual executive coaching.
In the second half of the programme, a series of masterclasses are provided on innovation and new thinking on a variety of business themes – including, lean processes, creating a brand, maximising sales and making the business ‘investor ready’.
The practical elements introduced throughout the programme are supported by opportunities to achieve a range of qualifications from the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) including a CMI Level 7 Certificate in Leadership together with a Postgraduate Certificate (PgC) in Sustainable Leadership.
Following successful completion of the PgC, 60 Master’s level credits will be obtained and these credits can be used towards the Executive MBA .
Students also have the option of continuing their studies to achieve the designation Chartered Manager or ‘CMgr’.
However, the main objective of 20Twenty Leadership programme is to get participants to develop a three-year growth strategy for their business or department.
Hence all the workshops and assignments are based around the needs of the business in driving sustainable growth.
This is what makes this programme different from other leadership development programmes – it will provide sustainable results with tangible benefits.
Each group of participants partake in a series of Workshops, Action Learning Sets, Masterclasses, Business Mentoring and Executive Coaching, focusing on key areas such as:
There may be funding available and this will be explained to you when you apply.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/agilepm-project-management:
Adopt a practical and repeatable methodology that achieves an ideal balance between the standards, rigour and visibility required for good project management, and the fast-pace, change and empowerment provided by AgilePM®.
Agile’s influence on the project management industry continues to rise at pace.
More organisations and project professionals than ever are embracing Agile tools and frameworks as they aim to increase the success of – and return on investment from – projects and other change initiatives.
Key benefits often attributed to Agile include improved revenue and speed to market, developing the right product/solution (through iterative development and incremental delivery) and increased collaboration and customer satisfaction.
Since its introduction in 2010, AgilePM® has fast established itself as the leading framework and certification for agile project management.
The AgilePM® course is now delivered via 28 pre-recorded sessions that can be taken at a time that suits the student.
The sessions will take you through the AgilePM® Foundation and Practitioner elements of the course.
Students will be issued with two exam vouchers that will allow students to book the Foundation and Practitioner exams.
To enrol onto the AgilePM® course, please go to our Online Store or contact csm-enterprise@cardiffmet.ac.uk for more information regarding enrolment and payment methods.
AgilePM® is a registered trademark of Agile Business Consortium Limited.
All rights reserved.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/cim-certificate--diploma-in-professional-and-digital-marketing:
The Cardiff School of Management currently offers the CIM Certificate and Diploma in Professional & Digital Marketing.
The Certificate is aimed at marketers who have experience in the industry and are looking to advance their career, whilst the Diploma is ideal for marketing managers looking to advance their strategic marketing and management skills.
The CIM has developed this qualification with extensive employer led research to ensure its relevance to maximising your career progression opportunities.
It is focused on:
The CIM has developed this qualification from extensive employer led research across various sectors, ensuring they align with industry demands.
It aims to:
Our CIM courses are delivered through intensive weekend blocks with additional online activities to encourage deeper understanding.
All sessions are underpinned by a strong emphasis on interactive teaching and learning that will benefit the students and their organisation alike.
Level 4 Certificate in Professional & Digital Marketing
You need 50 credits for your Level 4 Certificate, we offer the following modules:
All modules are delivered on weekends via face-to-face teaching (supported by a variety of online and library resources).
All students will have access to the CIM published module eBooks for each of the mandatory modules, plus assessment support session.
These modules will have a maximum capacity of 12 students and will be delivered:
Sat 11 + Sun 12 January 2025
10-4pm
Sat 26 + Sun 27 April 2025
Sat 10 May 2025
Sat 13 + Sun 14 September 2025
Sat 8 + Sun 9 November 2025
Level 6 Diploma in Professional & Digital Marketing
You need 50 credits for your Level 6 Diploma, we offer the following modules:
Sat 11, Sun 12 and Sat 25 January 2025
10-4pm plus
CIM Certificate in Professional Digital Marketing:
*Students can submit at any of the June, November, and March points but the assessment brief changes.
CIM Diploma in Professional Marketing:
Certificate:
You will need one years plus experience in the industry or a relevant Level 3 qualification, CIM or equivalent.
Alternatively, a Level 3 Apprenticeship such as the Digital Marketer, Multi-channel Marketer or Marketing Assistant would also be accepted.
We’ll consider other equivalent Marketing Apprenticeships.
Diploma:
One or more of the following is required:
CIM Studying Member Fee:
Cardiff Met Module Tuition Fee:
CIM Online Module Assessment Fee:
To enrol on a CIM course at Cardiff Metropolitan University, please go to our Online Store or contact csm-enterprise@cardiffmet.ac.uk for more information regarding enrolment and payment methods.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/prince2-project-management:
PRINCE2® (Projects in Controlled Environments) is a widely used internationally recognised process-based method for effective project management.
PRINCE2® is the de facto project management standard for public projects in the UK.
As a best practice project management tool, PRINCE2® can be tailored to the needs of any organisation and for any type and size of project.
PRINCE2® Foundation: For individuals wanting to demonstrate they have sufficient understanding of the PRINCE2® project management method.
PRINCE2® Practitioner: Suitable for individuals wanting to demonstrate they have achieved sufficient understanding of how to apply and tailor the PRINCE2® method in a scenario situation.
No formal qualifications are required.
It is aimed at anybody in a Project Management role seeking to demonstrate competence through a recognised formal qualification, or Managers who want to develop a controlled approach to managing projects.
PRINCE2® certification is an invaluable asset to anyone’s career as it increases employment prospects and helps individuals do their jobs more effectively, becoming an advantage to their employers.
Course fees include:
For enquiries, please email csm-enterprise@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Duration: 4 days (will be delivered via Microsoft Teams)
Dates:
The pre-recorded online version of the course can be started at any time and the duration can be decided by you, allowing you to work at your own pace.
To enrol onto a PRINCE2® course, please go to our Online Store or contact csm-enterprise@cardiffmet.ac.uk for more information regarding enrolment and payment methods.
PRINCE2® is a registered trademark of AXELOS Limited, used under permission of AXELOS Limited.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/a-taste-of-learning:
Have you thought about pursuing a career in teaching?
A one-week course will give a special taste of a career in teaching at a Welsh High School or a Welsh Primary School .
The course will offer valuable informal experiences (non-assessment) where you will have the opportunity to experience the school environment and to explore a career in this exciting and important profession after graduation.
The course will include two days at the University and three days out at either a primary or secondary school.
The first session at the University on the Cyncoed campus on Monday will include training in many aspects including Child Protection, Professional Teaching Requirements and an introduction to the Welsh Curriculum 2022.
On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, you will be out at school, having various experiences including shadowing and supporting teachers within your field of interest.
The last day back at the University will be an opportunity for you to discuss your recent experiences at your schools and share ideas.
We will offer a practical workshop offering guidance on applying for a place on the PGCE course here at Cardiff Metropolitan University, explaining interview expectations and offering one to one support.
A great opportunity to prepare your UCAS form and take advantage of the experience of PGCE tutors who are part of the interview system.
This is a special opportunity for you to gain practical experience of teaching in a sector that is looking for future teachers.
This will be a useful experience when thinking about a career in the world of education, and experience will therefore strengthen any application for a place in the Welsh-medium PGCE course at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
You will be expected to be a Welsh speaker, and the Tasting course and the school experiences will be through Welsh.
If you are unsure of your level of Welsh, it will be possible to discuss this with the course tutors before confirming your interest.
The aim of this course is to offer the opportunity to speakers from different backgrounds to see and experience the benefits of following a teacher’s career path through the Welsh language.
So – don’t let uncertain Welsh skills stop you – the staff at the University and the schools will be very ready to help you and raise your confidence!
Important:
DBS will need to be arranged before joining the course and attending the school.
You will be responsible for arranging this, and Admissions will be able to help with the DBA system.
Fill in your information in the form below:
Application Form – Taste of Learning
Send this form to:
If you have any queries about the Primary experience, please contact Gina Morgan ( GMorgan@cardiffmet.ac.uk ).
If you have any queries about the Secondary experience, please contact Rhian Crooks-Williams ( RECrooks-Williams@cardiffmet.ac.uk ).
Place of Study: Cyncoed Campus
School: Cardiff School of Education & Social Policy
Course Length: 1 week

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/preparing-to-teach-in-pcet:
If you are not sure that the two-year PGCE / PCE PCET course is right for you, this short course provides you with the skills and confidence, as well as a teaching toolkit to start your journey teaching in post-16 education.
This 10-week preparing to teach course has been developed as a teaching toolkit offering 10 credits at Level 4.
There is the opportunity to extend your study and progress to Part Two of either the PGCE PCET for graduates or the PCE PCET for non-graduates offered at Cardiff Met.
The Preparing to Teach in PCET short course is accredited at Level 4 and provides the minimum teaching qualification required to comply with EWC registration
The next Preparing to Teach in PCET course starts on 8th September or Tuesday 16th September 2025.
The programme includes the following content:
The Preparing to Teach in PCET course stands as a programme in its own right and can also form part one of a three-part qualification that leads to the Professional Graduate Certificate in Education / Professional Certificate in Education in PCET.
The Preparing to Teach in PCET programme is a part-time course of study that aims to provide you with the skills, knowledge, support and encouragement to teach learners in the post 16 or 14-19 sector.
It has been devised to meet the minimum requirements expected of those teaching / training in the post-compulsory sector of education and training.
The course is mapped to the new ETF standards for teaching.
Applicants wishing to enrol onto the course will need a Level 3 award / qualification in the subject that they are intending to teach (normally, the qualification would need to be Level 3).
Please contact the Programme Director if you are unsure of the level of your qualification.
Assessment will provide the opportunity for you to gain objective and constructive feedback relating to your performance and progress.
Full support will be given to undertake this assessment.
The module is formally assessed, and students will be required to:
Applications for this course should be made directly to the University.
Please click here for the online form, and you will need to enter Preparing to Teach in the New Programme Title section.
If you have any difficulty, email enrolment@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
For more information about this Preparing to Teach in PCET course, please contact the Programme Leader, Leanne Davies:
Course Length: 8-10 weeks with September and January intake (depending on intake numbers)
Course Cost: £330 (fee waiver for those on benefits)
Next course starts: 8th September 2025 6-8pm (10 weeks and one Saturday), OR Tuesday 16th September 2-7pm (8 weeks).
You can enrol on whichever option works best for you.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/consolidation-programme-for-newly-qualified-social-workers:
The Consolidation Programme is a professionally regulated programme and forms part of the first three years in practice framework for all newly qualified Social Workers.
The guidance for this period is outlined in the SCW (2019) document ‘The first three years in practice – a framework for newly-qualified social workers’ induction and continuing professional development.
The Consolidation Programme is aimed at newly qualified registered social workers and must be carried out during their first three years of registration, while they are practising as a social worker.
These roles involve carrying out social work tasks that draw upon the knowledge and skills featured in the National Occupational Standards for Social Work.
The Consolidation Programme is typically carried out in the second or third year of social work practice, before newly qualified social workers renew their registration.
This will build on and complement social worker’s development in their first year in practice.
Newly qualified social workers can only enrol on the programme once their manager or employer is happy that they have successfully completed their first year in practice and / or induction and are ready to progress to the Consolidation Programme (SCW, 2023).
The programme builds on the learning undertaken within the qualifying programme and focuses on embedding core professional knowledge and skills within practice.
It aims to support social workers as they make the transition from graduate to competent practitioner (SCW, 2023).
The Consolidation Programme establishes a culture of expectation of career-long learning and development for the social work profession.
This is particularly important for newly qualified social workers at the start of their careers, as they transition from student to qualified professional.
This involves using core professional knowledge and skills in practice and taking on more complex work in specialist areas.
The Consolidation Programme supports learning and development during this crucial phase (SCW, 2023).
The programme reflects current research, legislation and policy and incorporates the Welsh context which includes the language, culture, geography, and legislation within Wales.
The Code of Professional Practice for Social Care Workers (2017) and the relevant National Occupational Standards (2012) underpin the learning.
The inter-professional context of Social Work practice is highlighted.
The perspectives of individuals and carers who use services are prevalent throughout the management, delivery, and development of the module.
The Consolidation Programme focuses on three key areas, with particular emphasis on the third area:
The programme module attracts 30 credits at Level 6.
The delivery of the Consolidation Programme is in collaboration with the University of South Wales and Cardiff Metropolitan University and 10 Local Authorities to include Rhondda Cynon Taff, Merthyr Tydfil, Blaenau Gwent, Caerphilly, Cardiff, Vale of Glamorgan, Bridgend, Monmouth, Newport and Torfaen.
This ensures that the module is relevant to the needs and demands of the workforce.
The Higher Education Institution (HEI) will be the awarding body.
The Programme is validated by both HEI’s and approved by Social Care Wales under The Approval and Inspection for Post Qualifying Social Work Courses (Wales) 2019.
As a Consolidation candidate, you will be assigned a Consolidation Practice Assessor by your Local Authority who will assess and support you throughout your learning journey.
Introduction
The aim of the introduction day is to provide an outline of the taught days and the learning outcomes.
An overview of the assessment process will be given including the requirements for both the academic assignment and portfolio.
Day 1: Assessment & Analysis within Practice
The aim of the first day will be to consider assessment, risk assessment and risk management and working with complexity.
It will explore how social workers make sense of information presented during assessment, making links between values, theory, legislation, and practice.
There will consideration of professional curiosity, analysis and how these can inform good practice in relation to assessments and decision making.
Learning outcomes linked to day 1:
Day 2: Social Context of Social Work.
Legal Frameworks & Social Policy
The aim of the second day will be to give an overview of the Welsh context of social work and consider the influences of policy and legislation and how this guides practice in Wales.
It will explore approaches to social work practice that will promote collaborative working to enhance the well-being of individuals who use services and their carers.
It will also consider how social work practice in Wales can be influenced by global issues and perspectives.
Learning outcomes linked to day 2:
Day 3: Critical Reflection in Practice
The aims of the third day are to consider the different levels of reflection that can be utilised in practice.
It will consider how critical reflection and critical thinking skills assists practitioners in managing complexity and enables social workers to critically evaluate their own analysis and decision making within social work assessments.
A recap of the assessment requirements will also be provided.
Learning outcomes linked to day 3:
There are two parts to the assessment of this module: an academic summative assessment (3,000 words) and a portfolio of evidence.
The portfolio comprises of one direct observation with individuals who use services and their carers (and feedback from this direct work), one peer group exercise and four sets of supervision minutes.
Both elements of the assessment must be passed for the 30-credit module to be awarded.
The criteria for admission on to the programme are that the applicant is:
If you would like to apply for the Consolidation Programme at Cardiff Met, then initially please contact your Agency Workforce Development Team / Manager (or your nearest Local Authority Training Department if you do not work for a local council).
For further information about the course at Cardiff Met, please contact:
We look forward to hearing from you if you have any queries and to help support you in your professional development.
Place of Study: Llandaff Campus
Course Length: Three and a half taught days
Course Cost: £550
Start Dates: Cohorts start in October, January and March each year

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/enabling-practice-learning-award:
Are you a Social Worker interested in your own continuing professional development?
Do you want to meet the requirements of Social Care Wales re-registration criteria?
Do you like seeing people grow and develop?
Would you like to undertake a critical role in social work education and promote the learning and teaching of student social workers?
If this interests you, completing our Enabling Practice Learning Award at Cardiff Metropolitan University, will provide you with Social Care Wales approved qualification to enable you to undertake a critical role in social work education and become a Practice Educator (previously known as Practice Assessor / Practice Teacher).
This Award, as well as promoting your own professional standing, contributes to continuing professional development and provides excellent evidence of post-registration training and learning as well as providing a wonderful opportunity to be part of developing the future of social work in Wales.
It enables you to acquire knowledge and skills in relation to supervising and assessing social work practice at either qualifying or post qualifying levels.
Whilst practice educator can be a demanding role, it draws upon many of the social work skills that you already possess, such as communication, negotiation, collecting and analysing information, setting and working to targets, managing, enabling others and writing reports.
The Enabling Practice Learning Award at Cardiff Met is taught face-to-face on the Llandaff Campus and is available at both Level 6 and Level 7 (Master’s) and the Award is 30 Academic Credits.
The module is interactive, is taught by experienced lecturers (who themselves have undertaken the practice educator role, previously known as practice assessor) and the six taught days (in addition to a half day induction) provide the opportunity for you to acquire evidence-informed knowledge related to practice assessing and, meet other candidates who like yourselves, aspire to be part of the student learning journey.
You will have the opportunity to discuss and analyse a range of subject areas which will prepare you for the Practice Educator role:
The Enabling Practice Learning Award assessment at Cardiff Met is taught face-to-face on the Llandaff Campus and consists of six and a half taught days.
There are two cohorts for this programme per year.
The Award is taught using a myriad of teaching and learning strategies and methods, to aid and support learning of the diverse adult student community, such as lectures, exercises, case studies, videos, discussions, and interactive exercises to promote candidates own learning.
Resources are also provided during the sessions that can be utilised by the candidates when supporting the student in practice.
There are two parts to the assessment of this module: academic summative assessment and a practice element.
Successful achievement of both elements results in the Award being granted.
Summative Assessment:
The module will be assessed by two summative assessments.
These include one academic essay and one extended reflective analysis of a piece of practice.
You will need to pass both assessments to successfully complete the module.
Practice Assessment:
The practice element consists of two direct observations of your practice by your mentor.
These observations will take place during your supervision of the student.
You must have been qualified as a social worker for a minimum of two years.
As noted above, you must:
It is a requirement of the Award that you will be assessing either a social work student on one of the longer placements, e.g., 80 days practice learning opportunity or on a 100 day practice learning opportunity during this module.
You need to have your own Practice Learning Assessor in place before starting the programme and these arrangements are managed by your Local Authority training team).
By applying for this Award, you agree to participate in all the six teaching days (including the ½ day induction).
If this exciting opportunity interests you, then initially please contact your Agency Workforce Development Team / Manager (or your Local Authority Training Team if you do not work for a local Council).
Course Length: Six and a half taught days
Course Cost: £750
Start Dates: Cohorts start in September/October and January each year

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/astudio-trwy-gyfrwng-y-gymraeg:
Mae Met Caerdydd yn cynnig cyfleoedd gwych i fyfyrwyr sy’n dymuno astudio trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Gallwch wneud rhan sylweddol o’ch gradd trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg mewn sawl ysgol academaidd.
Dewch i ddarganfod mwy am y manteisio o astudio dy gwrs drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg ym Met Caerdydd.
Mae Met Caerdydd yn cynnig ysgoloriaethau i fyfyrwyr sy’n dewis astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Trwy astudio yma byddwch yn rhan o’r teulu yma, ac yn derbyn cyfleoedd i fanteisio ar sawl cyfle i ddatblygu eich Cymreictod.
Siarad â thiwtoriaid cwrs a myfyrwyr; ewch am daith o gwmpas ein cyfleusterau, llety a champysau; darganfod rhagor am Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd, a mwy.
Mae hefyd cyfle i chi ymweld â Chaerdydd ac archwilio ein dinas wych.
Mae ein blogiau myfyrwyr yn cynnig golwg fanwl, ddilys ar fywyd Met Caerdydd o safbwynt ein myfyrwyr Cymraeg.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/study-in-welsh/courses:
These courses offer 40 or more credits per year in order to apply for a scholarship from the Coleg Cymraeg.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/study-in-welsh/why-study-through-the-medium-of-welsh:
Students with Welsh language skills who completed part of their course in Welsh are over 10% more likely to achieve better professional-level outcomes and to have a career that is on track, compared to those who studied exclusively in English.
There are several advantages to choosing to study a course partly or fully through the medium of Welsh:
If you don't feel confident enough to study a course entirely through the medium of Welsh, there are a number of courses available that offer you the option to study only a part of your course through the medium of Welsh.
Support is available for students who are studying courses partly through the medium of Welsh to help them improve their spoken and written language skills.
If you have any questions, please contact unedgymraeg@cardiffmet.ac.uk
"In my opinion studying bilingually is a great advantage.
It allows you to develop skills that will ultimately be inviting when looking for a job in the future and I've definitely benefited a lot from studying through the medium of Welsh." – Cathrin Jones BA (Hons) Business and Management with Human Resource Management

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/welsh-language-unit/coleg-cymraeg-cenedlaethol-at-cardiff-met/scholarships:
Cardiff Met has a number of courses where it is possible to study part of the course through the medium of Welsh.
If you are studying one of these undergraduate courses and want to receive a scholarship (even if you have not chosen to study in Welsh yet), contact Dr Bedwyr ab Ion Thomas (Coleg Cymraeg Branch Officer) at metcaerdydd@colegcymraeg.ac.uk .
In order to receive an Incentive Scholarship you must study at least 1/3 (40 credits) of the course through the medium of Welsh.
£500 per year is given over the duration of the course up to £1,500.
In order to receive a Main Scholarship you must study at least 2/3 (80 credits) of the course through the medium of Welsh.
£1,000 is given per year over the duration of the course up to £3,000.
There are a limited number of Main Scholarships available, and the University will nominate individuals to receive this Scholarship.
Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol has a number of other scholarships and bursaries, such as postgraduate scholarships, and more information about them can be found by following these links: Scholarships | Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol and Research Scholarships | Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/study-in-welsh/our-welsh-community:
We are proud to be a university in Wales and we are committed to promoting and celebrating the Welsh language and its culture.
We encourage everyone to get involved in celebrating important Welsh events including St David’s Day, St Dwynwen’s Day, Welsh Language Music Day and many more.
Keep an eye out on our social media pages for Welsh language events durning welcome week- Instagram: @cangenmetcaerdydd
Weekly rehearsals are held throughout the autumn term as we prepare for two exciting highlights of the choir's year: performing at the Christmas Service in Llandaff Cathedral and singing at the prestigious Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol dinner.
The ‘GymGym’ is the Welsh Society managed by Cardiff University welcoming Welsh students from Cardiff Met University.
It’s a society for the city’s students in order to participate and enjoy various activities that promote and celebrate the Welsh language.
Many different events are held throughout the year which include a lot of socialising, plenty of fun, but this society is also a special way to make new friends in the Welsh language!
Click here to join this society
Cardiff is home to some fantastic live music venues; from one of the world’s leading stadiums to small grass-roots gig venues featuring Welsh Language pop artists.
Clwb Ifor Bach, one of the city’s most iconic, yet smaller live music gig venues, has been at the forefront of Welsh culture for over 40 years bringing crowds the absolute best music from Wales and beyond.
Cardiff Castle, in the city centre, is a striking symbol of Welsh history, blending Roman, Norman, and Victorian elements.
The St Fagans National Museum of History, just outside the city, is a must-see open-air museum that brings Welsh heritage to life with reconstructed historic buildings and traditional crafts.
Watch a show at the Wales Millennium Centre, whether it’s a Welsh-language play, an opera, or a musical, the Centre is a cultural landmark and architectural gem.
If rugby is your thing, catch a rugby match at the Principality Stadium and experience the passion of Welsh fans.
Cardiff is also the spiritual home of the Wales national football team.
Home matches are held at the Cardiff City Stadium, where The Red Wall—the nickname for the loyal fanbase—creates an electric atmosphere.
https://www.visitcardiff.com/culture/
Tafwyl brings together the best of Welsh language music, arts, and culture in the heart of Cardiff.
The festival offers a unique and immersive experience for everyone, regardless of whether you are a native Welsh speaker or simply interested in discovering the beauty of the Welsh language.
TAFWYL – Gŵyl Gymraeg Caerdydd
We offer many opportunities for students to be able to study through the medium of Welsh – our Welsh-medium provision is among the widest in Wales.
There are variations in undergraduate course modules and the amount that can be studied through the medium of Welsh.
You can also study modules through the medium of Welsh, even if you are studying mainly in English.
We also guarantee a Welsh-speaking Personal Tutor.
We’re offering you FREE Welsh lessons and Improve your Welsh classes for students in the School of Sport and Health Sciences and the School of Education and Social Policy.
Welsh language skills are very valuable in Wales, both professionally and socially.
Cardiff Met offers many opportunities to develop, improve and use these Skills.
Registration will be open during Welcome Week.
Visit one of the campus hubs to speak with a member of the Welsh Language Unit .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ysgol-gelf-a-dylunio:
Rydym yn cynnig ystod o raddau israddedig, ôl-raddedig ac ymchwil, wedi'u cynllunio i'ch cyfarparu â'r offer i wneud newid ystyrlon mewn ystod eang o yrfaoedd.
Byddwch yn dod yn weithiwr proffesiynol amlochrog a medrus iawn, yn barod i ymuno ag arweinwyr, meddylwyr ac entrepreneuriaid y dyfodol.
Trwy weithio gydag artistiaid, dylunwyr a gwneuthurwyr eraill, byddwch yn ehangu eich sgiliau, syniadau, a phrofiadau.
Rydym yn annog eich datblygiad o fewn cyd-destun cyfrifoldeb cymdeithasol, wrth i chi chwarae eich rhan mewn creu dyfodol cynaliadwy.
Gweld ein cyfleusterau
Mae'r Ysgol Gelf a Dylunio Caerdydd yn cynnig ystod helaeth o gyfleusterau i'ch helpu i wireddu eich creadigrwydd, waeth pa ffurf fydd hynny.
Mae ein sioeau gradd blynyddol yn arddangos y gwaith gorau y mae ein myfyrwyr israddedig ac ôl-radd wedi greu.
Mae’r arddangosfeydd hyn yn rhoi llwyfan i dalent newydd, gan gynnig cipolwg ar ddyfodol celf, dylunio ac ymchwil.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-art-and-design/our-curriculum:
Your degree is built upon a pioneering interdisciplinary curriculum, preparing you for 21st century working and living.
It is designed to broaden your horizons, to build a collaborative mindset, to develop innovative leadership skills, and to make meaningful change in a broad range of creative careers.
Made up of three core components, Subject , Field & Constellation , the projects and assignments that you complete have your career in mind, with professional practice woven throughout.
We are a Future Generations Art & Design School, which means we’re focused on the future, the planet, our communities and making sustainable choices.
This is your specialism; your home during your time at university.
You will be immersed in the practices, histories and creative processes of your chosen degree.
You will be creatively and academically challenged, building on your existing skills by taking part in studio practice projects, tutorials and workshops.
Our interdisciplinary Field modules build your professional foundation, enhancing collaboration, project management, leadership, and critical thinking.
You’ll tackle real-world challenges, engage with industry experts, and join national and international competitions.
Develop professional skills and earn digital badges for your CV through the University’s Shape Your Future framework.
Here you will develop your academic rigour, critical thinking and research skills, as we introduce you to the wider world of ideas, theory and contextual studies of art and design.
You’ll learn how art and design contributes to, and is influenced by, a network of contemporary social, cultural, ethical, historical and philosophical contexts.
Come and see us at one of our Open Day.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-art-and-design/interview-days:
We offer places at Cardiff School of Art and Design based on an interview process.
It’s not just about exam results - we want to know more about you as a person, and as an artist, designer or maker.
This helps us to ensure that both our innovative interdisciplinary curriculum and our diverse and creative community of students and staff is the right fit for you.
We’re looking for evidence of your enthusiasm , creativity and curiosity , as well as your skills and potential as a creative and critical thinker, artist, designer or maker.
The interview process varies depending on which course you have applied for, but most involve a review of your portfolio of work and a conversation with the subject team.
Some of our interviews are one-to-one, while others may involve group exercises.
All of our interviews are informal - we want you to feel relaxed and able to be yourself.
Your interview may be in person or online, and the majority of our courses also require a portfolio.
We then hold applicant days in the Spring to give you the perfect opportunity to visit our campus, see our facilities and have a full taster of your chosen course.
See our Portfolio Tips section for information on how to create a basic electronic portfolio.
Here a few tips on how to get the most out of your interview at CSAD:
Your portfolio is a collection of your work.
It can include pieces you’ve worked on at school or college, and personal work that you’ve created for yourself.
Here are some tips on how to make the most of your portfolio:
It's a good idea to tailor your portfolio to the course you are applying for, but there are some general things that are useful to include no matter which subject you are interested in:
The most straightforward way to provide us with a portfolio is to email a PDF file to us – we will tell you where to send this when we contact you about your interview.
If your file is particularly large and cannot be sent by email, you may need to send via a file sharing website such as WeTransfer .
Download our guide for Using Microsoft PowerPoint to Create a PDF Portfolio .
While a PDF is our preferred format, we can also accept a link to a portfolio website if you have one.
If you are successful at interview, we will write to you with either a conditional or unconditional offer.
We will also inform UCAS so that they can update your profile on Track .
If you receive an unconditional offer, we expect you to continue with your current studies and complete your qualifications to achieve the best results you can.
All of your qualifications are important to your future career prospects, and may be essential for entering some professions.
You may also need them when applying for further study.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-art-and-design/facilities:
Our purpose-built School of Art and Design building at Llandaff Campus offers a wide range of specialist facilities for our creative programmes.
Staffed by experts who can provide you with the training, advice and support you need, our extensive range of workshops, technical facilities and equipment will ensure you become a competent and skilled creative practitioner with a varied and dynamic skillset.
Our interdisciplinary curriculum encourages students to explore every workshop, ensuring you rise to the creative challenge with the most appropriate and innovative materials.
Our Animation Studios are equipped with high-end computers, digital drawing tablets, and industry-standard production software, as well as extensive stop-motion facilities.
Our Ceramics Workshop area houses well-equipped kiln, plaster, clay, glaze, and ceramic print facilities, as well as external soda kilns and Raku firing facilities.
Our Fabric Print Workshop facilitates traditional and modern techniques, such as screen printing, chemical and natural dyeing, and digital sublimation printing.
Our spacious Fashion Design Studios are equipped with everything needed for garment construction and finishing, including industry-standard sewing machines and overlockers.
Our Graphic Design and Communication Studios offer collaborative working spaces and relaxed seating areas to encourage community, as well as individual workspaces and group teaching areas.
Our Metal Workshops offer equipment and support for a range of techniques, from lost wax bronze casting processes and welding to traditional forge and sheet metal work.
Our photographic facilities include three lighting studios equipped with electronic flash, Tungsten and LED lighting, and a wet darkroom for traditional photographic processes.
Our Printmaking Workshops offer facilities for processes including Relief, Intaglio, Stone Lithography, Screenprinting, Letterpress, and Bookbinding, as well as modern Laser Cutting.
Our woodwork facilities offer a full range of equipment including bandsaws, sanders, wood lathes, circular and cross-cut saws, and planer thicknessers.
Want to take a tour of our facilities and building?
Come and see us at an Open Day.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-art-and-design/csad-graduates-show:
The Cardiff School of Art & Design Graduate Show will be available at Cardiff Metropolitan University's Llandaff campus from Friday 13th to Friday 20th June 2025.
It is free to visit and open 10am-6pm on weekdays and 12-4pm on weekends.
As part of the celebrations for this year’s degree show, fringe events will be happening across Cardiff including outdoor exhibitions and hands-on where you can explore your creativity at our purpose-built studios and workshops.
The Degree Show is a showcase of work from final year students from the following undergraduate programmes: Animation , Architectural Design & Technology , Architecture , Artist Designer: Maker , Ceramics , Fashion Design , Fine Art , Graphic Design & Communication , Illustration , Interior Design , Photography , Product Design , and Textile Design ​.​
Share your CSAD Degree Show experience on Instagram using the hashtag #CSAD25 and keep an eye on @cardiffmetcsad for updates.
Tuesday 6 th May
Graduate Fashion Show
Cardiff Met Llandaff Campus
9 th – 23 rd June
Outdoor Poster Exhibition
Locations across Cardiff city centre
Thursday 12 th June
Graduate Animation Screening
CSAD Llandaff Campus
Friday 13 th June
5-8pm
Opening Night Event
Saturday 14 th June
12-4pm
Friends & Family Day
Sunday 15 th June
Community Day
Monday to Friday 10am-6pm Saturday & Sunday 12-4pm
Western Avenue, Cardiff, CF5 2YB View location on map
As part of the celebrations for this year’s degree show, a number of events will be happening across Cardiff including public film screenings, celebration events, outdoor exhibitions and hands-on workshops.
Tuesday 6th May – Graduate Fashion Catwalk Show
Our #CSAD25 celebrations are kicked off in style with our Graduate Fashion Catwalk.
The culmination of three years of exploration in pattern, form and function.
The catwalk show will be hosted at our Llandaff campus.
Keep an eye on @cardiffmetcsad for tickets.
9 th – 23 rd June – City Centre Poster Exhibition
Cardiff city centre will host a two-week outdoor exhibition featuring student work from our graduates.
Work will be shown across the city centre from Monday 9th to to Monday 23rd June.
We’ll be making the map available soon, so keep an eye on @cardiffmetcsad for updates.
Thursday 12 th June - Graduate Animation Screening
Our graduating Animation cohort will be showcasing their work in CSAD.
We’ll share the link to book your tickets soon.
Friday 13 th June – Opening Night
Join us for the official #CSAD25 at 5pm as we invite colleagues from industry and the public to come along to this special event.
Featuring live performances, stalls, industry talks and networking opportunities, our opening night celebrations will be a night to remember!
Sunday 15 th June – Community Day
Join us for our Community Day to experience life as a student in CSAD.
Open from 12-4pm, there will be free workshops running until 3.30pm.
We’ll be releasing the full timetable of activities for this year very soon, so keep an eye out for updates.
Activities are suitable for anyone aged 8+.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/school-pupils-from-across-south-wales-showcase-artwork-at-cardiff-met.php:
Hundreds of pupils from schools across south Wales will have their artwork on display at Cardiff Metropolitan University this week.
Now in its eighth year, over 60 schools - including school children from year one through to sixth form students - are taking part in the annual Creative Exhibition which takes place at Cardiff Met until 4 July.
Cardiff School of Art & Design and Cardiff School of Education & Social Policy work collaboratively to provide a platform for schools to share work with each other, parents and the wider public in a purpose-built exhibition space.
Marie Hill, leader of learning in art at Whitmore High School, in Barry, said: “The school's exhibition is an excellent experience for art-based students as it validates and celebrates their hard work but also their imagination and creativity.
There is nothing better than seeing your work on display and being able to see all the other schools’ work is amazing too.
“Hosting it at Cardiff Met makes the students feel valued, whilst giving them a taste of what university life is like.
As a teacher I feel inspired by the breadth of what is displayed.”
The Creative Exhibition is held in Cardiff School of Art & Design, Llandaff .
It is open to the public from Friday 27 June and will run until Friday 4 July between 10am – 5pm Monday to Friday.
The public are welcome to pop in and do not need to book in advance.
Jason Davies is a Senior Lecturer in Education at Cardiff School of Education & Social Policy at Cardiff Met, and responsible for the Creative Exhibition initiative.
He said: “Every year it is a huge privilege to be able to work with colleagues in schools and colleges to share the incredible work pupils produce.
Without the commitment and enthusiasm of teachers none of this would be possible.
Thank you to everyone involved.”

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/local-community-invited-to-cardiff-mets-annual-art--design-community-day.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University's School of Art and Design will open its doors to the public for its popular annual Community Day on Sunday 15 June 2025.
A range of activities will be available, giving the public the chance to try out skills taught at the School.
Highlights include an animation workshop, neurographic art classes - which combine creativity and psychology to support stress reduction and wellbeing - and postcard printing sessions.
The Community Day is open from 12pm to 4pm at Cardiff Met's Llandaff campus, with free workshops running until 3.30pm.
There is no requirement to book in advance.
Activities are suitable for anyone over the age of eight , and all children must be accompanied by an adult.
The free workshops available include:
Screenings will also air from the School's photography studio all day, so the public can watch a screening of original animations, videos and multimedia artworks from the University's graduating art and design cohort.
Dr Bethan Gordon, Dean of Cardiff Metropolitan University’s School of Art and Design, said: “Our annual Community Day is a great opportunity to welcome the University’s neighbours and wider community to take part in a range of activities, get creative and even learn a new skill using some of our fantastic facilities.
“Part of the Cardiff School of Art and Design Summer Show, those attending the community day will also get the chance to see some of the exceptional work produced by our students.”
Students will also be showcasing their work within the Cardiff School of Art and Design Summer Show between Friday 13 June – Friday 20 June 2024.
It is free to visit, and the general public are welcome to attend during the following opening hours:
Tours of the School's facilities will also run throughout the day – giving attendees a glimpse behind the scenes at how students produce their work and a walk through the Summer Show exhibition to view the finished products.
More information on the Cardiff School of Art & Design Degree Show 2025 is available on Cardiff Met’s webpage.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-met-graduates-artwork-on-display-at-wales-heritage-site.php:
Three Cardiff Metropolitan University BA (Hons) Ceramics Degree graduates art works are now on show at Wales’ most famous pottery, Nantgarw China Works, near Cardiff.
Home to the famous Nantgarw porcelain, Nantgarw China Works is the last remaining 19th century porcelain factory in the UK.
Now a museum and visitor attraction, the heritage site produced porcelain so fine it was bought by royalty.
Thanks to new funding created by the Contemporary Art Society for Wales (CASW), the emerging artists from Cardiff Met have had the chance to produce and show new work, fostering creative talent in Wales.
Each of the Cardiff Met graduates work was inspired by Wales’ heritage.
Bringing a range of artistic styles and ceramic techniques from the experimental, to the precise art of Japanese nerikomi.
Toni de Jesus, based in Cardiff, graduated from Cardiff Met in 2018 and is an emerging artist, winner of the FRESH award at the British Ceramics Biennial 2019 and has already had work shown at the Glynn Vivian Art Gallery in Swansea.
Taking inspiration from her hometown in the south Wales valleys, Naomi Palmer, who graduated in 2024, creates striking, translucent artworks., using porcelain and parian clays.
Sophie Jo Edwards, from Llandysul, graduated from Cardiff Met in 2024 and has also brought a unique artistic response to Nantgarw using materials foraged from the heritage site.
Sophie said: “Being invited to create work for Nantgarw has been a privilege which has provided momentum in my transition from student to artist, and it’s been meaningful to contribute to the museum’s rich history.”
Nantgarw is the only surviving early-1800s porcelain works in the UK and the porcelain produced here is still considered some of the finest ever made.
Opened in 1813, it continued for a century as a pottery, also making household wares and tobacco pipes.
Now operated by a charitable trust, visitors today receive a guided tour of the original factory buildings, a historic and contemporary ceramics collection, as well as a chance to relax with a cuppa or browse the gift shop, perfect for pottery-lovers.
Duncan Ayscough, Senior Lecturer on the BA (Hons) Ceramics Degree at Cardiff Metropolitan University said: “It is great to hear that three Cardiff Met ceramics degree graduates, Toni, Naomi and Sophie Jo, have been selected for this prestigious award.
“The Nantgarw China Works is renowned for its relentless pursuit of technical excellence and creative innovation.
These makers all understand the values of this pottery in their own creative journeys and have developed their own distinctive materials and creative language, creating intriguing and beautiful works that engage with contemporary societies values and challenges.”
New work by each of the artists have been acquired by the museum thanks to support from the Contemporary Art Society for Wales (CASW) creators of the prize funded by the gift of the late Professor Bryan Hibbard and named in memory of Bryan and his late wife, Dr Elizabeth Hibbard, both long-term supporters of CASW.
Rowland Davies, Chair of CASW said, “CASW is delighted that the first Hibbard Prize has been awarded to Nantgarw China Works Museum and has been used to acquire such exciting new ceramic works.”
Find out more about the Nantgarw China Works Museum on the website.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-met-students-showcase-talent-in-team-wales-kit-design.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University students have teamed up with Team Wales and Specialist Sports to design the leisure wear kit for the athletes ahead of the Commonwealth Games next summer in Glasgow.
Specialist Sports, Team Wales’s official leisurewear kit partner and the distributor of adidas Teamwear across the UK and Ireland, was appointed by Team Wales last year to design and supply adidas leisurewear to athletes and team members for the 2026 Games.
The collection will be designed by students from Cardiff Met’s BA (Hons) Fashion Design Degree in collaboration with Team Wales and Specialist Sports.
Rebecca Edwards-Symmons, Chief Executive of Team Wales said: “Our partnership with Cardiff Met is working extremely well and we are really pleased to be able to offer this valuable opportunity to the students.
To have Specialist Sports, adidas and Team Wales on their CV as a student will be hugely beneficial to their development.
Our Athletes Commission have been central in working with the students on their designs and we can’t wait to showcase the final designs in Glasgow next year.”
The project began in January this year with a briefing introduction to the students from Team Wales, Specialist Sports’ Head of Design, Gavin Monk, and the Athletes Commission.
A total of 16 second and third year Fashion Design students are now working on the designs, which will be submitted in June this year and unveiled to the public in Spring 2026.
The winning designer will work alongside Specialist Sports over the summer to finalise the kit designs before production begins in the autumn.
Dr Bethan Gordan, Dean of the School of Art and Design at Cardiff Metropolitan University, said: “Collaborating with top designers to produce the leisure wear kit for Team Wales is undeniably an unparalleled opportunity for our students and showcases the calibre of Cardiff School of Art and Design.
“At Cardiff Met, we place a huge emphasis on our links with industry.
Our students gain invaluable experience through working on live briefs, alongside professionals, to equip them with the skills needed for their careers.
We have some incredibly talented students taking part in this project and I look forward to seeing the finished products worn by athletes taking part in the 2026 Games.”
Head of Design at Specialist Sports, Gavin Monk said: “It's been inspiring to witness the Cardiff Met students embrace the power of storytelling in their designs.
The brief challenged them to capture the essence of Wales – its heritage, its passion, and its athletic ambition – and they've responded with remarkable creativity.
At Specialist Sports, we believe that a kit should be more than just apparel; it should be a narrative that resonates with athletes and fans alike.
These students have truly brought that philosophy to life, demonstrating the incredible impact of design when it’s rooted in a compelling story."

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/development-bank-wales-invests-in-cardiff-met-spinout-company-.php:
A spinout company from Cardiff Metropolitan University has secured investment from Development Bank Wales to build a powerful new form of imaging technology that could revolutionise the way people view and make images.
The partnership between Fovo Technology Ltd.
(Fovotec) and Development Bank Wales - a major provider of investment funds and commercialisation expertise – will enable the development of Dynamic Projection.
Based on research from artists and scientists into how human vision works, ‘Dynamic Projection’ allows technology to generate images that are closer to how humans ‘see’.
Fovotec, which was founded in 2017 by interdisciplinary academics at Cardiff Met, has so far secured 15 international patents to protect its novel process, with several more pending.
The range of potential applications is vast and includes computer games, smartphone cameras, cinematography, medical imaging, security, defence and communications.
Dr Robert Pepperell, Co-Founder of Fovotec and Professor of Fine Art at Cardiff Metropolitan University, said: “It’s taken many years to solve the problem of how to make wide angle images look natural in imaging media.
“This new investment from Development Bank Wales creates an incredibly exciting opportunity to deliver Fovotec’s solution to leading technology companies around the world.
We do not think it will be long before we see Fovotec’s Dynamic Projection appearing in computer games titles and other consumer technologies.”
Development Bank Wales and Fovotec are now exploring opportunities with major technology companies to integrate Fovotec’s Dynamic Projection tools into leading brand products.
Chairman of Fovotec, Frank Holmes, said: “We have witnessed the evolution of this patented invention from its early conception and are hugely excited about its extensive commercialisation prospects, some of which are imminent.
” Professor Sheldon Hanton, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation at Cardiff Metropolitan University, added: “Cardiff Met is very much at the forefront of imaging innovation globally and this significant investment from Development Bank Wales will enable our academics to continue to develop this groundbreaking technology.”
Adam Ramzaan, Investment Executive at the Development Bank of Wales said: "We’re thrilled to be supporting Fovotec at this exciting stage of their journey.
Their pioneering work in human-centred imaging and real-time rendering technology has the potential to transform industries.
This investment reflects our strong belief in the team’s vision, technical excellence, and commercial potential."

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ysgol-addysg-a-pholisi-cymdeithasol:
Wedi’i lleoli ar draws campws Cyncoed a Llandaf, mae’r Ysgol yn cynnig graddau sy’n canolbwyntio ar gyflogadwyedd ym meysydd pwnc Addysg , Saesneg , Ysgrifennu Creadigol a'r Cyfryngau , Crimnoleg a Phlismona, Polisi Cymdeithasol ac Addysg Gychwynnol i Athrawon , ac yn gartref i Bartneriaeth Caerdydd ar gyfer Addysg Gychwynnol i Athrawon , un o’r canolfannau addysg a hyfforddiant athrawon mwyaf yn y DU.
Mae ein graddedigion yn hynod fedrus ac yn gwbl barod ar gyfer y byd gwaith, gan elwa o'n cysylltiadau rhagorol ag ysgolion, diwydiant, cyrff proffesiynol a’r gymuned.
Rydym yn cynnig ystod eang o gyfleusterau addysgu er mwyn gwella dysgu yn seiliedig ar ymarfer.
Mae’r cyfleusterau’n cynnwys Canolfan Ddysgu Awyr Agored ac ysgol goedwig, labordai gwyddoniaeth a seicoleg, gweithdai celf a dylunio, ystafelloedd cyfryngau a TG, stiwdio gerddoriaeth a llyfrgell addysg bwrpasol.
Mae ein Tŷ Trosedd arbenigol, Ystafell Ffug Llys, a Thŷ Froebel yn cyfoethogi profiadau dysgu ymarferol ac efelychiadol.
Darganfod mwy
Partneriaeth Caerdydd ar gyfer Addysg Gychwynnol i Athrawon (AGA) - Cydweithio ag athrawon, ar gyfer athrawon, fel athrawon, i ysbrydoli meddyliau dyfodol Cymru.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-education-and-social-policy/facilities:
We offer an extensive range of specialist teaching facilities which provide you with critical opportunities for practice-based learning on campus.
Facilities include an Outdoor Learning Centre and forest school, science and psychology laboratories, art and design workshops, media and IT suites, music studio and a dedicated education library.
Our Forest School and purpose-built Outdoor Learning Centre at the Cyncoed campus, provides our Education and Teacher Training students with many practical experiences, with local primary school children frequently coming onto campus to experience interactive outdoor learning and play.
Our Education Experience Room is our dedicated library containing all the learning resources required by our Education and Initial Teacher Education students, including story sacks, puppets and a range of children's books in English and Welsh.
Discover our new Froebel House facilities at the Cyncoed Campus, where our student teachers, early years and primary education students learn about Froebel's principles and get hands-on with block play, clay, paper, woodwork, sewing and gardening.
Our music students across our Initial Teacher Education courses have access to a wide range of musical instruments.
The specialist equipment ensures our student teachers are prepared to teach any classroom instrument, as well as learning how to teach music technology in our Mac suite.
Media and Journalism students develop important digital skills in our dedicated Media Mac suite using Adobe Creative Cloud software.
We also have a sound-proofed self-operated radio studio equipped with podcast / audio recording equipment.
Professional Policing and Criminology students use our dedicated Crime House facilities, which includes a custody suite, observation and surveillance suite, and victim and suspect interview room.
They provide you with critical simulated learning opportunities to put the knowledge and skills you learn into practice.​
Our purpose-built Moot Court room at the Llandaff campus is jointly used by Professional Policing and Criminology students, to put theory into practice in preparation for courtroom experiences, through role-play scenarios.
Our large modern practical laboratories are used for science-based teaching on a range of PGCE and BA Education Courses.
They are intended to replicate well-equipped school laboratory spaces that give student teachers opportunities to develop vital skills that will support them in demonstrating and facilitating practical activities for themselves in school setting.
Our spacious facilities are used for art, computing and design-based teaching on a range of PGCE and BA Education Courses.
These facilities include an Art and Design Studio, Kiln room, Textiles space, Computing and ICT Studio, D&T workshops and 3D Printing Lab, and support our students to develop key practical skills.
Want to find take a tour of our facilities and building?

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/former-army-officer-who-fought-in-afghanistan-graduates-as-maths-teacher-.php:
A former British Army Officer who fought and was injured in Afghanistan is now set to pursue a new career as a teacher and will graduate from Cardiff Metropolitan University this week.
Laurence Hooper, 42, from Penarth, spent seven years with the army, travelling the world working his way up to Captain before deploying on operations as an engineer.
After being shot and almost having his leg amputated while serving in Afghanistan in 2008, Laurence rehabilitated and went on to run a decompression facility in Cyprus for soldiers returning from combat.
During this time, he got to work with soldiers from all walks of life and discovered a love for teaching and coaching.
Following several senior roles in construction, living and working in London and Dubai -it was during a family holiday that he discovered a new calling.
Laurence said: “I was teaching a group of my son’s friends, chess and their dad complimented me on my calm approach, commenting that I should be a teacher.
I realised I was really enjoying explaining the rules of the game, teaching them a skill they could keep for life, and it sparked something in me.
I had never even thought of becoming a teacher before then.
“At this point, I was running my dad’s construction firm, a business which had been in our family for over four decades and I was at a bit of a crossroads with where to take the business next.
After speaking with my dad, who was wholly supportive of my decision, I decided to take the leap and enrol on the PGCE at Cardiff Met.”
Laurence, who says he has always enjoyed maths - and is a primary school governor for maths at his children’s school - has already secured a position as a newly qualified teacher and will start his new role in September.
Cameron Stewart, Senior Lecturer in Initial Teacher Education and Professional Learning at Cardiff Metropolitan University said: “Laurence is the perfect example of someone who brings their life experiences into the classroom to enhance the learning of his pupils.”
Offering advice to other mature students, Laurence said: “Previous life experience, and having had a career before becoming a teacher brings something different to the classroom experience for children and their learning.
Giving the curriculum a real-world context helps make education relevant to pupils no matter what we are talking about.”

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/huge-boost-for-primary-school-reading-skills-in-wales.php:
A new initiative aimed at enhancing Welsh primary school children’s reading skills has received a grant of £99,637 by Welsh Government.
The Cymraeg PALS-UK project sees Cardiff Metropolitan and Nottingham Trent universities teaming up to adapt ‘Peer-Assisted Learning Strategies’ (PALS) to align with the Curriculum for Wales and Welsh language requirements.
PALS is delivered 3 times a week over 20 weeks for 32-minutes-per session to boost reading comprehension and oral reading fluency.
Each Key Stage Two pupil is paired with a peer, taking turns as tutor and tutee while working through structured reading activities.
Originating in the United States, PALS has been implemented in England, Iceland and Taiwan.
A 2024 trial conducted by Nottingham Trent University found that pupils who received PALS instruction made, on average, two months’ additional progress in reading compared to their peers.
Teachers reported positive feedback, noting a marked increase in reading for pleasure, supported by informal book discussions between pupil pairs.
The new project will adapt PALS for Wales by translating all content and training resources into Welsh.
This approach will ensure the intervention is not only pedagogically sound but also culturally and linguistically relevant to the needs of the Welsh education system.
Each PALS manual will include comprehensive resources for teachers, including scripted lesson plans and student materials, making the intervention easy to implement alongside existing literacy programmes.
Developing and piloting PALS-UK training for the Welsh context is Senior Lecturer in Psychology and Education at Cardiff Met’s School of Education and Social Policy, Dr Emma McDonald: "I am tremendously pleased to be leading the development of PALS-UK in partnership with schools across Wales and have it supported by Welsh Government.
This collaborative approach enables us to adapt the programme specifically for the Welsh educational landscape and ensure it effectively supports both English and Welsh medium provision.
Working directly with Welsh educators allows us to develop the evidence-based intervention that is genuinely responsive to the linguistic and cultural context of Wales."
Dr Emma Vardy was instrumental in securing the funding and leads the PALS-UK team at Nottingham Trent University: “PALS-UK is an evidence-informed programme that can transform children’s reading outcomes, it is therefore exciting to work with Cardiff Met University and the Welsh Government to translate PALS-UK into Welsh and to ensure the programme aligns with the Curriculum for Wales”.
Cymraeg PALS-UK grant is part of Welsh Government’s £44m investment to boost standards and support education.
Commenting on the support made available, Cabinet Secretary for Education Lynne Neagle, said: “This is a huge investment in high-quality, nationally consistent support for all our schools.
We are helping schools to ramp up investment in literacy and numeracy standards, challenge and engage with their learners across the curriculum.”
Further information about PALS can be found via The Fuchs Research Group .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/opinion-changing-and-adapting-supporting-neurodiverse-learners-in-the-classroom.php:
Dr Rhiannon Packer is a Senior Lecturer in Additional Learning Needs at Cardiff School of Education & Social Policy.
She has worked in higher education since 2004 and prior to that was a secondary school teacher teaching Welsh as a second language.
Rhiannon’s research interests include exploring the educational transition experiences of learners in a range of settings, supporting neurodivergent learners and bilingualism.
“A recent report in the news highlighted the challenges that some parents face in waiting for nearly five years for a diagnosis of autism or ADHD for their child.
While this is by no means acceptable, it is important to remember that being neurodivergent is not uncommon.
An estimated 15% of the population are neurodivergent , meaning the way their brain functions, learns and processes information is different from neurotypical people whose brains function and process information in a way society expects.
Neurodiversity refers to the natural differences between people.
While neurodiverse conditions, such as autism, are often poorly understood, stereotyped and characterised in negative ways, we’re beginning to have a greater understanding of the normal variation in the ways in that humans’ brains work.
It’s important that we take these variations into account and recognise the valuable contributions that neurodivergent individuals can make.
Neurodiversity can be viewed on a spectrum, with some people able to function well within society, while others finding this more challenging, such as socialising and working with others.
It is rare for an individual to have just one neurodivergent condition as most have a co-occurrence , meaning they have a combination of autism / ADHD / dyslexia, etc.
As a result, it can be challenging to diagnose one condition.
We need to consider what benefits a diagnosis and subsequent label has on an individual.
In some cases, it can enable further support - but not all.
The Additional Learning Needs (ALN) Code for Wales does not stipulate that a diagnosis or a label is needed for a child or young person to receive additional learning provisions.
The definition of ALN is that a child or young person has ‘a significantly greater difficulty in learning than the majority of others of the same age’; this means that additional learning provision (ALP) needs to include educational or training provision that is additional to, or different from, learning resources that are made for others of the same age.
Again, this does not call for a diagnosis, rather that provision is made in relation to the needs of the child or young person involved.
If we consider this from a social perspective, then we need to change or adapt the environment so that we can include as many individuals as possible in the mainstream classroom environment.
Educational psychologists suggest developing an inclusive approach can make it possible for neurodivergent children to succeed in a mainstream classroom.
While this can be a challenging, supporting teachers to meet the needs of neurodiverse children in the classroom can break down barriers to learning.
Creating a universal design for learning approach in classrooms could mean tweaking or adapting how lessons are taught; for example, breaking activities into shorter chunks, delivering content in a multi-modal way, and providing opportunities for learners to demonstrate knowledge and understanding in different ways.
It also means incorporating spaces in schools for breakout activities such as quiet areas and clubs, basic equipment such as wobble chairs, noise-cancelling headphones, and timeout cards.
A universal design for learning approach will only succeed should adjustments be made available to all learners who need it.
It’s important that teachers know the learners’ strengths and what they find challenging or what might be barriers to understanding.
Working with parents is essential, as it helps teachers gain a deeper understanding of a child’s needs and ensures a cohesive approach to support their development.
Teachers need regular access to support and guidance, to further develop and enhance their knowledge and understanding of individuals who are neurodivergent, and ALN more broadly.
Training needs to be embedded within PGCE programmes with subsequent professional development so that teachers can share best practice with each other.”
For further information or to arrange an interview with Dr Rhiannon Packer, please contact press@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call 029 2041 6362.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/new-report-highlights-growing-concern-over-teaching-profession-in-wales.php:
A new report identifying some of key issues facing the teaching profession in Wales has been published by Cardiff Metropolitan University today (Wednesday 19 February).
Over the last year, researchers from Cardiff Met’s School of Education and Social Policy have surveyed and interviewed undergraduate students, student teachers, teachers, school leaders and key players in the education system in Wales.
Findings from the report, ‘A Future Teaching Profession for Wales’, highlighted the challenges the educational system in Wales is facing, including recruitment, the retention of teachers – in particular newly qualified teachers – and the overall appeal of teaching.
David Egan, Professor of Education at Cardiff Met led the report, and said: “Encouraging people to enter teaching and to remain in the profession inevitably relies on the attractiveness of the job.
The voices we listened to were generally negative about the perception and the reality of teaching.
“We spoke with all parties in the Welsh education system and also looked at international research evidence, to consider what we might do to address this challenge.
“Whilst salary levels were mentioned, much more emphasis was placed on excessive workload, a feeling that society no longer valued teachers and the lack of visible career pathways.”
The report also shows how recruitment and retention to primary teaching courses was better than that of secondary school degrees.
In the most recent academic year (2023/24), 62% of teaching courses at secondary schools funded by the Welsh Government weren’t filled and, with a few exceptions, all secondary subject areas failed to reach their allocations, including English (25% recruitment), mathematics (28%) sciences (27%) and Welsh (15%).
David continued: “The consequence of this under-recruitment leads to many schools facing acute teacher shortages, particularly Welsh-medium schools, those in rural areas and the most socio-economically disadvantaged communities.
Headteachers told us that in some cases they have ceased to advertise for teachers in these subject areas and if they recruit at all, they must rely on teachers qualified in other subjects or unqualified teachers.”
The report highlights how some young teachers who qualify choose not to enter the profession, preferring to undertake casual work or opting for roles as supply teachers.
Other young teachers deciding to leave teaching in the early years of their career.
Excessive workloads and the impact on teacher wellbeing were also important factors for poor retention.
The report notes how teachers were more likely to stay in the profession if they felt supported early in their careers, had opportunities to develop their professional knowledge or were offered flexible working arrangements.
“Currently the situation regarding teacher recruitment, retention and progression in Wales is serious and it is probably getting worse.
It will be extremely difficult for education to make progress and for the Welsh Government to achieve its National Mission – which was set to to raise standards and aspirations for all learners – unless these trends can be reversed,” David adds.
With funding provided from Welsh Government, researchers from Cardiff Met worked with 19 local authorities across Wales’ education system to collect data highlighted in the report.
The findings will now be used to identify what can be done to address the challenges to improve teacher recruitment, retention and progression in Wales.
Cardiff Metropolitan University over the last year have spoken to all parties in the Welsh education system and looked at international research evidence, to consider what we might do to address this challenge.
‘A Future Teaching Profession for Wales’ report was officially launched at an event at Cardiff Met on 19 February with Professor Mick Waters, formerly the Director of Curriculum at the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority, in attendance.
During the event, attendees had the opportunity to hear from keynote speakers and join expert panel speakers on the challenges facing the teaching profession in Wales.
The full report, ‘A Future Teaching Profession for Wales’ can be read here .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ysgol-reoli:
Dewch yn arweinydd busnes y dyfodol yn Ysgol Reoli Caerdydd.
Rydym yn ysgol fusnes a rheolaeth achrededig gyda chyfleusterau pwrpasol ar Gampws Llandaff.
Mae ein hamgylchedd dysgu ysbrydoledig wedi'i greu i'ch helpu i gyrraedd eich llawn botensial.
Rydym yn arbenigo mewn Cyfrifeg, Economeg a Chyllid; Busnes, Rheolaeth a'r Gyfraith; Marchnata a Strategaeth, yn ogystal â Thwristiaeth, Lletygarwch a Rheoli Digwyddiadau.
Wedi'i wreiddio mewn ymchwil, rydym yn gyrru twf economaidd rhanbarthol, cenedlaethol a byd-eang trwy addysgu, menter, ac ymchwil gymhwysol.
Mae ein hadeilad modern Ysgol Reoli Caerdydd ar Gampws Llandaf wedi'i gynllunio i ysbrydoli arweinwyr busnes y dyfodol wrth ddarparu cymorth eithriadol.
Mae’r cyfleusterau’n cynnwys ein Ffug Lys, ein Hystafell Letygarwch bwrpasol a chanolfannau TG penodedig â mynediad at feddalwedd arbenigol a phroffesiynol sy’n eich galluogi chi i ddatblygu eich sgiliau ac ennill profiad ymarferol fel rhan o’ch astudiaethau.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-management/facilities:
Our Cardiff School of Management building at the Llandaff Campus embodies our mission to inspire future leaders of industry, whilst providing a hugely supportive learning environment.
Facilities include our purpose-built Moot Courtroom, Hospitality Suite, and dedicated IT centres with access to specialist, professional software, enabling you to develop your skills and gain practical experience as part of your studies.
Put legal theory into practice in our purpose-built mock courtroom.
You will be supported, through student-centred approaches, to develop your skills in collaboration, effective communication, legal research, and public speaking.
Our purpose-built, on-site hospitality suite and adjoining Industry kitchens, allows practical application of theory for those students studying on our Hospitality and Events Management degrees.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/professor-brian-morgan-awarded-obe-for-services-to-business-and-enterprise-in-wales.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s Brian Morgan has been awarded an OBE (Officer of the Order of the British Empire) in the King’s Birthday Honours List, recognising his outstanding contributions to business development, entrepreneurship, and the Welsh economy.
Professor Morgan, who was recently appointed Emeritus Professor of Entrepreneurship at the University’s School of Management, described the honour as a deeply meaningful moment at the close of an impactful academic and professional journey: “It’s a great honour and I was absolutely delighted to receive it.
The letter came through just after I’d officially retired and been made Emeritus Professor, so it felt like a final flourish after many years of work.”
Since joining Cardiff Met in 2007, Brian has played a transformative role in embedding enterprise and innovation into the University’s culture and curriculum.
As Director of the Creative Leadership and Enterprise Centre (CLEC), he developed new models of applied leadership education tailored to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) across Wales.
One of his most notable achievements at Cardiff Met was the creation of the 20Twenty Leading Business Growth Programme, a flagship initiative that equipped SME leaders with the tools, confidence, and networks needed to scale their businesses and contribute to the Welsh economy.
The programme blended academic insight with real-world application and helped raise Cardiff Met’s profile as a national leader in business and entrepreneurship support.
Though now semi-retired, he continues to provide mentorship and one-day-a-week support to the CLEC team, ensuring its legacy of impact continues.
“The Centre is in good hands,” said Professor Morgan.
“The colleagues who worked with me over the years are now taking the reins and pushing the programme forward, which is incredibly rewarding to see.”
Beyond his work at Cardiff Met, Brian is a renowned Welsh economist and champion of innovation-led business growth and has had a wide-ranging and influential career across academia, government policy, and private enterprise.
He is currently chair of Severn Estuary Tidal Bar Ltd.
– a company that is developing a new turbine to promote a tidal range energy project in the Severn.
He began his professional life at the London School of Economics, where he studied alongside figures such as the UK’s Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) Chair, Sir Clive Jones CBE, who would later encourage and support his nomination for the honour.
Over the years, Professor Morgan has held key roles at institutions including Cardiff Business School and the Welsh Development Agency (WDA).
His work as WDA’s Chief Economist was instrumental in shaping enterprise policy and supporting business investment across Wales.
In the private sector, he played a pivotal role in the early growth of Penderyn Whisky, Wales’s most celebrated distillery, helping to bring a uniquely Welsh brand to global markets.
His commitment to local enterprise and sustainable economic growth has been a recurring theme throughout his career.
Brian hopes to attend an investiture ceremony at Windsor Castle later this year, where he will be formally presented with the OBE.
He plans to be joined by his wife and family to mark the occasion.
Also honoured is Cardiff Met Governor, Kevin Coutinho, who received an MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) for his services to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI).
Kevin is Chair of the Board of Trustees and Director at the Windsor Fellowship, a charitable organisation enabling talented people from diverse communities to fulfil their potential.
In total, Kevin has amassed 25 years’ experience in EDI, 15 of which have been in higher education.
He helped deliver the Race Equality Charter at the University of Oxford and provided EDI policy guidance and developed initiatives with the University of Cambridge.
At University College London, Kevin worked as their Athena SWAN manager.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/learned-society-of-wales-honours-cardiff-met-academics-and-governors.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University academics and governors have become Fellows of the Learned Society of Wales.
Professor Nick Clifton and Professor Delyth James, along with Board of Governors members Professor Paul Matthews and Menai Owen-Jones join 56 other high-profile Fellows from across Wales and the world.
Fellows are drawn from academia, the public and health service, and Wales’ wider civic and cultural life.
They are chosen because of their expertise and experience, and their research and knowledge leadership; making their election a prestigious honour both personally, and for their associated institution.
The four new Cardiff Met Fellows reflect the LSW’s breadth of interest, with impressive impacts on the social sector, business, health sciences and Welsh policy development.
Professor of Economic Geography and Regional Development, Nick Clifton serves as the Research Excellence Framework (REF) Coordinator for the Cardiff School of Management and sits on several of the University's strategic academic committees.
Nick’s research has informed national and regional policy for organisations including the Welsh Government, Innovate UK, and the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).
“I am deeply honoured to be elected a Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales,” said Professor Clifton.
“It’s a privilege to be recognised alongside so many distinguished individuals who are contributing to the advancement of knowledge and public life in Wales.
Throughout my academic career, I’ve been passionate about using research to explore and inform the challenges and opportunities facing regions, small businesses, and innovation ecosystems - especially here in Wales.
This Fellowship reflects not only my own work, but also the collaborative and impactful research culture we have fostered at Cardiff School of Management.”
Professor Delyth James is a world-leading academic whose interdisciplinary work bridges health psychology, pharmacy, and clinical practice.
As a registered pharmacist with over two decades of frontline clinical experience, she has dedicated her academic career to addressing the behavioural and systemic challenges in how people use medication.
Dividing her time between Cardiff Met and Swansea University, Professor James has attracted nearly £2 million in research and scholarship funding and has published more than 100 outputs.
Her contribution to education, clinical service transformation, and professional training has had a tangible and lasting impact across the healthcare sector.
Speaking about becoming a LSW Fellow, Delyth said: “I am absolutely thrilled to be elected a Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales and am extremely grateful to my nominee and to those who supported my application through the rigorous process.
“Many of my fellow colleagues at Cardiff Metropolitan University are also deserved of this recognition and I look forward to providing encouragement and advice where possible in order to support their election in the future.
“As a Fellow of the LSW I hope to contribute to the development of their Early Career Researcher (ECR) community, particularly those aligned with the healthcare professions to drive research and innovation and help build the capability and capacity of the clinical academic workforce in Wales to the benefit of society and its economy.”
Joining Professors Delyth James and Nick Clifton in Fellowship are Cardiff Met Board of Governors members Professor Paul Matthews, Chief Executive of Monmouthshire County Council, and Menai Owen-Jones, an accomplished social entrepreneur and strategic advisor.
Both have made significant contributions to public service and civic leadership in Wales and are valued voices in the University’s governance and strategic direction.
The combined strength of the entire Learned Society of Wales Fellowship helps the organisation meet its charitable aim to advance the use of research and innovation for the benefit of Wales’ economy and society.
Reflecting on the election of the Fellows, Professor Hywel Thomas, President of the LSW, said: “We face a huge number of challenges, from climate change to political turmoil to emerging health threats.
The answer to so many of these problems will be found in research and robust civic institutions.
That expertise is evident in our new Fellows.
I’m delighted to welcome them to the Learned Society of Wales.”

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-school-of-management-students-excel-in-strategy-in-business-day-with-aldermore.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s Careers Service has once again teamed up with its partners at Aldermore Banking Group to provide students with the opportunity to gain valuable employability skills.
For the third year running, Aldermore hosted its annual ‘Strategy in Business’ workshop, welcoming Cardiff Met and Swansea University students to its graduate insight event.
The day included a mix of careers panel discussions, interview tips, individual and group work activity, providing valuable insight into the world of work after graduation.
Speaking at the event, Talent Management Partner at Aldermore Group, Francesca Webster said: “Our partnership with Cardiff Met plays an important role in Aldermore Group’s talent strategy, helping students bridge the gap between education and employment.
The students were fantastic – fully engaged, eager to learn, and willing to take on challenges.
Their feedback was overwhelmingly positive, with many highlighting how the experience will support their transition from university to the workplace and increase their interest in a career with Aldermore Group.”
The event took place at Swansea University and addressed how daunting a task transitioning from academia to industry can be for graduates.
Students were supported by Cardiff Met’s Careers Service to use their critical thinking skills and knowledge gained during their studies to approach the workshops, enabling them to enhance their employability skills and better prepare for the world of work.
By delivering immersive work experiences hosted by our partners, Cardiff Met aims to boost students’ confidence and chances of success when going into graduate assessment centres after leaving higher education.
Rabia Qayenat is currently studying International Business Management at the University’s School of Management and attended Aldermore’s Strategy in Business Day and commented: “This was a great chance to apply strategic thinking to real-life situations while gaining invaluable experience and learning from an engaging panel of experts.
One of the most thought-provoking exercises of the day was ‘An exercise in feedback’.
The task showed us how peer pressure can cloud our capability or decision-making, at times to the disadvantage of individual potential.
This became a crucial learning moment for me, and I will surely take such insights forward in my journey.”
Noting the success of the event, Cardiff Met Careers Team Manager, Ceris Palser added: “This marks the third year of our Strategy in Business Day in collaboration with Swansea University, a partnership that has significantly enhanced student participation.
Opportunities like this provide invaluable experience, giving students a realistic taste of the competitive graduate job market.
It was fantastic to see their confidence and professionalism shine, a testament to the strong collaboration between academics and careers teams in preparing them for success.”

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/opinion-what-does-egypts-plan-to-rebuild-gaza-involve-and-what-challenges-does-it-face.php:
In an article first published in The Conversation , Rafik Omar, Lecturer in Finance at Cardiff School of Management, discusses Egypt’s ‘realistic’ plan for rebuilding war-torn Gaza , outlining the plan’s key elements and the challenges it may encounter.
“Arab leaders endorsed a US$53 billion (£41 billion) plan to rebuild war-torn Gaza at an emergency summit in Cairo on March 4.
The proposal, which was drawn up by Egypt and has been backed by France, Germany, Italy and Britain, rivals US president Donald Trump’s idea for the US to “ take over Gaza ” and permanently resettle its 2.1 million inhabitants.
Egypt’s reconstruction plan calls for Gaza to be rebuilt over five years.
It is designed in three phases, structured to stabilise, reconstruct and develop the region into a self-sustaining economy.
Gazans will remain in their homeland throughout.
The Palestinian militant group Hamas would be sidelined under the plan.
Hamas, which has been the de facto governing body in the Gaza Strip since 2007, would be replaced immediately by an “administrative committee” made up of independent technocrats and non-partisan local figures.
According to the draft, the committee will manage the territory for a transitional period of six months.
The Palestinian Authority (PA), which exercises partial control over several areas of the Israeli-occupied West Bank and is unpopular among Palestinians , would then fully resume control of the enclave.
The White House and the Israeli foreign ministry both rejected Egypt’s proposal .
Brian Hughes, the White House National Security Council spokesman, said the plan did “not address the reality that Gaza is currently uninhabitable and residents cannot humanely live in a territory covered in debris and unexploded ordnance.”
Trump has described the plan as “lacking” certain critical aspects.
He emphasised the necessity of addressing security concerns, particularly the disarmament of Hamas, to ensure lasting peace and stability in the region.
The Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has previously ruled out either Hamas or the PA taking control in Gaza.
The US special envoy to the Middle East, Steve Witkoff, has since walked back the Trump administration’s opposition to the plan.
“We need more discussion about it, but it’s a good faith first step from the Egyptians,” Witkoff said to reporters outside the White House on March 6.
The first phase of the plan will take place over a period of about six months.
The focus will be on removing debris, clearing unexploded ordnance and providing temporary housing for those displaced by the conflict.
The goal will be to stabilise the humanitarian situation and establish the foundations for more extensive rebuilding efforts.
The second phase, which will take place over two years, represents the core of the rebuilding process.
The aim is to build 200,000 housing units, while restoring essential services such as electricity, water, road networks, schools and hospitals.
These developments are expected to cost US$20 billion, and will be critical for reestablishing adequate living standards for Gaza’s residents.
Progress reports will be presented at donor summits twice a year to ensure accountability and efficiency.
International funders will evaluate progress and adjust funding allocations if necessary.
The final phase, which will last two-and-a-half years, is designed to transform Gaza into a thriving and self-sustaining economy.
This stage prioritises the establishment of industrial zones, as well a seaport, technology hub and coastal tourism facilities – all aimed at creating employment opportunities and boosting trade.
A key element of the economic development phase involves issuing business grants and investment incentives to encourage entrepreneurship and attract foreign direct investment.
Egypt has proposed the creation of an internationally supervised trust fund to channel financial support for the project from international donors.
Key contributors are expected to include wealthy Gulf states such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), alongside the EU and other international bodies.
Donor conferences will soon be held to mobilise resources, secure binding commitments from participating nations, and establish mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability in fund allocation and utilisation.
Reaching a consensus on Hamas’s future involvement in Gaza is one of the biggest challenges facing the plan.
The UAE has said it is unwilling to fund Gaza’s reconstruction if Hamas remains in power.
Egypt, on the other hand, has suggested integrating other armed Palestinian factions into Gaza’s future governance structure to reduce the influence of Hamas.
Sidelining Hamas completely may lead to resistance and internal conflict.
Hamas has previously dismissed reconstruction proposals that seek to exclude it from Gaza’s administration.
The group argues that such plans undermine its authority and the will of the Palestinian people.
Ensuring a smooth transition to the PA’s administration will require careful negotiation and consensus-building among Palestinian factions.
Egypt’s plan also suggests that an international peacekeeping force could be deployed in Gaza during the transition period to prevent militant groups like Hamas from regaining control.
This proposal is likely to be rejected by Israel and Hamas.
Israel fears that the deployment of international troops near its borders could limit its military operations against Palestinian militants.
And in July 2024, when the UAE called for a multinational force to deploy to Gaza, Hamas publicly warned that it would treat any permanent foreign military presence in Gaza as hostile.
But, perhaps most importantly, the reconstruction of Gaza will only be possible should the current ceasefire be sustained.
The ceasefire, which came into force on January 19, is in a precarious state.
Israel has blocked the entry of humanitarian aid into Gaza and has now ordered all of its electricity supply to be cut off.
Any resurgence of hostilities between Israeli troops and Palestinian militants will deter potential investors in Gaza, while making any attempt at starting reconstruction impossible.”
For further information or to arrange an interview with Rafik Omar, please contact press@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call 029 2041 6362.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/opinion-why-does-mark-zuckerberg-want-more-masculine-energy-in-the-corporate-world-the-patriarchy-is-still-in-charge.php:
In an article that first featured in The Conversation , Dr Ashley Morgan, Masculinities Scholar at Cardiff Metropolitan University, explores Mark Zuckerberg’s comments on ‘masculine energy’.
Dr Morgan says the remarks don’t just reinforce outdated gender norms, they blur the line between masculinity and patriarchy, sending a clear message about who belongs in positions of power.
“Out of Mark Zuckerberg’s three-hour interview on Joe Rogan’s podcast, one comment stood out to me.
The Meta CEO said that large companies needed more “masculine energy”, because the corporate world was becoming “culturally neutered”.
“I think having a culture that celebrates the aggression a bit more has its own merits that are really positive,” he told Rogan.
After the interview, numerous commentators rushed to accuse the Meta CEO of toxic masculinity, and of having a “ toxic revamp ”.
Zuckerberg has previously discussed his love of martial arts and butchering his own meat – anecdotes that can be seen to promote a view of masculinity steeped in archaic rhetoric about male aggression and strength.
Toxic masculinity is generally defined as “the constellation of socially regressive male traits that serve to foster domination, the devaluation of women, homophobia and wanton violence”.
This definition was used to describe men in prison by psychiatrist Terry Kupers in 2005, but he also argued that these traits were present in the male population at large.
Yet arguably, Zuckerberg’s comment is reflective of a certain form of patriarchy rather than simply toxic masculinity.
In a patriarchy, men’s power over women is the norm, embedded in the cultural and economic systems that men have built and in which they thrive, and from which women are frequently excluded.
Many academics, myself included , have been at pains to define toxic masculinity as distinctive from patriarchy – not all qualities associated with male power (think leadership, strength) are necessarily “toxic”.
Indeed, research has shown that in many circles, masculinity has become more inclusive of different views of “how to be a man”.
But Zuckerberg’s comments show that a specific view of masculinity as aggressive still holds power in the most influential spaces.
As a result, the distinction between toxic masculinity and patriarchy becomes blurred.
In a patriarchy, even if only a few men are in charge, all men benefit from the unequal treatment of women, which is known as the patriarchal dividend.
Even if some men are not obviously powerful, they will benefit from things like certain jobs or university courses being more male-orientated.
Patriarchy has a long history , and as men began wars and fought for domination, ideas about differences between men and women became more pronounced.
These ideas are reflected today in gender stereotypes, like the view that women are more caring and nurturing, and men are naturally violent and aggressive.
These norms, which are perpetuated by parents and society from birth, harm men as well as women, for example by communicating to boys that they must be aggressive and cannot share their emotions.
It also makes things more difficult for people of all genders who challenge norms of gender and sexuality.
They also create a smokescreen around what men and women are “good at” in terms of the workplace.
That there are more men in the tech industry doesn’t mean that men are better at technologically sophisticated work than women are.
It’s simply that men have greater opportunities than women do.
This is arguably evident in statistics that show women are vastly underrepresented in computing, maths and IT roles.
By saying that companies need more “aggression” and “masculine energy”, Zuckerberg sends an even stronger message that women aren’t welcome.
It is difficult to argue that Zuckerberg’s business has been “neutered”, when Meta made a net profit of US$62 billion (£50 billion) in 2024.
But this is a compelling narrative to men who feel that their position at the top might be under threat.
One of the things that men who benefit from patriarchy fear is losing power.
This is reflected in recent political trends.
In the US, this fear has been abated by Donald Trump winning the election, while displaying traditionally strong-man practices of misogyny, entitlement and wealth.
This might further explain why in the UK, self-proclaimed misogynist Andrew Tate claims he is interested in running for prime minister .
In many cases, whoever is in power sets the tone for what brand of patriarchy is considered dominant.
Much of this is part of a backlash to the apparent gains women have made.
A recent survey of young people in the UK found that 45% of male respondents aged 13 to 27 said “we have gone so far in promoting women’s equality that we are discriminating against men”.
Indeed, Zuckerberg commented to Rogan that the world had “swung culturally” to a view that “masculinity is toxic and we have to get rid of it completely”.
I would argue that it’s not about getting rid of masculinity, but about recognising that there can be more than one way of being a man .
Patriarchy is a hegemonic system, meaning that men being in a more powerful position than women is accepted by both as “the natural order of things”.
It is also bolstered by views on race and ability that hold white, rich, able-bodied men at the top.
That this is socially valued in US politics today is evident in who was given pride of place at Trump’s inauguration: Zuckerberg and his fellow “ broligarchs ” Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos.
But what figures like Zuckerberg should remember is that a rigid view of masculinity and “masculine energy” is harmful to men as well, despite the ways in which they benefit from patriarchy.
It is known to lead to shutting down emotions in men and even suicide .
Not to mention that hypermasculine energy can have a negative effect on workplaces , including leading to burnout and bullying.
Zuckerberg himself took paternity leave after the birth of his first daughter.
He must know that it is possible for masculinity to be composed of things other than aggression – but perhaps he needs reminding.”
For further information or to arrange an interview with Dr Ashley Morgan, please contact press@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call 029 2041 6362.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2024/cardiff-met-graduate-honoured-among-30-best-young-hospitality-talents-at-2024-acorn-awards.php:
Gareth Rees, a Cardiff Metropolitan University graduate of the International Hotel and Hospitality Management programme, has been named one of the 30 best young hospitality talents to watch under the age of 30.
This prestigious recognition was awarded at the 2024 Acorn Awards, an event renowned for celebrating the most promising up-and-coming professionals in the hospitality industry.
The Acorn Awards, organised by The Caterer , is in its 38th year and continues to spotlight exceptional talent within the hospitality sector.
Winners are nominated by their peers and are selected for their remarkable achievements and contributions to the industry.
This year’s winners gathered last month for a celebratory weekend at the Belfry Hotel & Resort in Sutton Coldfield, the venue for the British Masters golf tournament.
Gareth Rees's inclusion in this esteemed group highlights his exceptional contributions and potential in the hospitality industry.
His dedication and achievements reflect the high standards and quality of education provided by Cardiff Met.
Upon winning, Gareth said: “I recall flicking through The Caterer while at university at Cardiff Met and reading about Acorn Winners and how they excel not only in their role but also in their contribution to the wider industry.
I can’t quite believe that I have now been given such a prestigious award and find myself among such amazing hospitality professionals.
“I am incredibly lucky to have gained such a solid foundation from Cardiff Met which allowed me to attain a Graduate Management Scheme and work my way up in the industry from there.”
Deputy Editor of The Caterer, Allister Richards praised this year's Acorn Award winners, saying: “The creativity, ambition, and energy of all the winners is a magnificent reminder of how exciting and full of opportunity our industry is.
Early on in their hospitality careers, they have shown unbounded potential, remarkable ability, and vision.
They’ve laid their claim as future hospitality leaders and influencers.”
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s BA (Hon) International Hotel and Hospitality Management course is designed to equip students with the skills and knowledge necessary to excel in the dynamic hospitality industry.
To read about Gareth’s experience at the University, visit his blog: How studying International Hotel and Hospitality Management at Cardiff Met led to a manager role at The Manor House Hotel .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ysgol-chwaraeon-a-gwyddorau-iechyd:
Mae Ysgol Gwyddorau Chwaraeon ac Iechyd Caerdydd yn ganolfan ragoriaeth gydnabyddedig yn y DU, gydag enw da yn rhyngwladol am ansawdd ei gwaith ymchwil ac academaidd ar draws gwyddorau chwaraeon a iechyd.
Wedi’i leoli ar draws campysau Cyncoed a Llandaf, rydym yn gweithio ar y cyd â’n myfyrwyr a’n partneriaid diwydiant, byrddau iechyd, cyrff llywodraethu cenedlaethol chwaraeon a llawer o rai eraill i ddarparu addysg sy’n canolbwyntio ar gyflogadwyedd ac ymchwil effeithiol.
Mae ein cyfleusterau gwyddorau iechyd arbenigol wedi'u cynllunio gyda'ch gyrfa yn y dyfodol mewn y dyfodol, gan eich galluogi i gael profiadau ymarferol fel rhan o'ch gradd.
Darganfod mwy gan gynnwys teithiau rhithwir.
Mae ein cyfleusterau chwaraeon ac academaidd arbenigol yn eich galluogi i gael profiadau ymarferol i'ch paratoi ar gyfer eich gyrfa yn y dyfodol.
Gweld ein rhaglenni Perfformiad
Mae Met Caerdydd yn darparu ac yn rheoli amgylchedd Cynllun Gyrfa Ddeuol achrededig TASS sy’n caniatáu i fyfyrwyr gyflawni eu potensial academaidd ochr yn ochr â hyfforddi, chwarae, a pherfformio yn eu camp dewisol.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-sport-and-health-sciences/health-facilities:
The new Allied Clinical Health Hub at Llandaff campus is designed for authentic interprofessional education (IPE).
This high-tech space enables health professions to collaborate, combining simulation-based learning with student-led clinical services for the community.
Students gain sector-leading experience by working in real outpatient-style facilities alongside multidisciplinary teams, developing the skills needed to become competent practitioners who provide top-quality patient care.
The biomedical science teaching laboratories are large, modern, and well-equipped, allowing students to develop key competencies aligned with accreditation requirements.
Practical sessions cover microbiology, immunology, blood sciences, molecular biology, and genetics.
Media screens and audio setups enable interactive learning between staff and students, ensuring an excellent learning experience in all lab sessions.
The dental laboratories provide hands-on training in fixed and removable prosthodontics and orthodontics.
Each student has an individual lab bench equipped with essential tools like a micromotor, overhead lamp, and induction heater.
A dedicated plaster room houses additional equipment, while a fully functional CAD/CAM suite with dental scanners and 3D printers supports modern dental techniques.
The industry facilities within ZERO2FIVE Food Industry Centre are available for use by students in support of our Food Science, Nutrition, Dietetics, Biomedical Science and Environmental Students.
These include a consumer sensory suite, 4 pilot sized plants, a development kitchen and a consumer research kitchen.
The Health Assessment Suite focuses on physiological assessments using advanced techniques like blood pressure measurement, arterial stiffness analysis, pulse oximetry, ultrasound imaging, spirometry, and exercise testing.
Research here specializes in vascular health, enriching the teaching experience for students.
Students have access to a large clinical facility with a multi-chair clinic, gait laboratory, orthosis manufacturing labs, and an anatomy & physiology lab.
A simulation suite supports pre-clinical diagnostic and treatment skill development.
Psychology facilities include individual testing rooms for behavioural experiments and a range of specialist equipment including a Tobii eye tracker, Biosemi EEG, and Noldus face reader.
We also have a teaching laboratory stocked with an array of commercially available PCs and several BIOPAC MP46 units for teaching principles of psychophysiology.
There are two purpose-built clinics for adult and paediatric speech and language therapy, run with NHS services, offer specialist equipment and resources for high-quality student placements.
SLT students train in the Allied Clinical Health Hub, a simulated environment with a mock hospital ward, interactive manikins, kitchen areas, and outpatient settings, with live-streamed simulations for lectures.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-sport-and-health-sciences/sport-facilities:
Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences offers an extensive range of specialist sport and academic facilities.
Our specialist sport and academic facilities at the Cyncoed campus will enable you to gain practical experiences that prepare you for your future career.
Cardiff Met Sport offers state-of-the-art training facilities, performance analysis labs, strength and conditioning suites, and sport rehabilitation clinics, providing hands-on experience in a professional environment.
Located within the National Indoor Athletics Centre, the Biomechanics Department features cutting-edge research facilities with state-of-the-art technology.
It includes a dedicated lab space, two data collection areas, and a hybrid analysis suite supporting advanced sport science research.
The Performance Analysis Lab is a world-leading facility with five computer labs equipped with high-performance PC and Mac systems, featuring advanced video editing tools.
The Cyncoed campus also includes an outdoor IP camera network for enhanced video capture processes.
The Physiology Lab consists of two teaching labs equipped for sport-specific assessments, including running, cycling, swimming, and rowing.
These facilities provide hands-on experience with specialist sports science equipment to enhance practical learning.
The Physiology Research Lab supports a wide range of staff and student research activities.
Final-year undergraduate students gain experience with advanced exercise physiology equipment during independent research projects, with opportunities to engage in ongoing postgraduate and staff research.
This gym area is divided into two sections: one equipped for upper body strength development with weightlifting benches and racks, and another open space designated for warm-ups and rehabilitation practical sessions.
SCRAM Gym is equipped with cardiovascular equipment, machine weights, rehabilitation cages, and three dumbbell benches.
This facility is utilized for both gym instructor and rehabilitation practicals.
The SCRAM Research Laboratory enables in-depth analysis of athletic performance.
The facility supports researcher groups, such as Youth Physical Development (YPD), in assessing athletes' strength and power qualities.
It also aids practitioners in evaluating muscular performance within rehabilitative settings.
Equipment includes motion capture Vicon Nexus and Kistler force plates.
The Strength and Power gym features 14 weightlifting platforms with integrated squat racks, enabling students to practice key lifts and enhance their coaching skills.
The Sport Broadcast and Media Suite features a sound-proofed TV studio equipped with lights, cameras, a green screen, and a virtual set.
It also includes a TV gallery with a TriCaster operating system, a master edit station, and a sound-proofed self-operated radio studio with podcast and audio recording equipment.
Located on the first floor of the National Indoor Athletics Centre (NIAC), the Sports Massage teaching rooms are fully equipped to deliver both practical and theoretical components of sports massage, providing an excellent learning environment.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/paralympic-athlete-awarded-honorary-fellowship-.php:
Paralympian athlete, media commentator and successful businesswoman, Elizabeth Johnson, has been awarded an Honorary Fellowship by Cardiff Metropolitan University today (Thursday 17 July).
Elizabeth, who is a British swimmer, has won gold medals at the Paralympic Games, International Paralympic Committee (IPC) World Championships and European championships.
Since retiring as an athlete, Elizabeth has gone on to have a successful career as a media commentator – working as a presenter for the 2024 Paris Paralympics and a sport commentator for the BBC and Channel 4.
Elizabeth is also a board member for Disability Sport Wales and an athlete mentor for the Youth Sport Trust and Dame Kelly Holmes Trust .
Originally from Newport, Elizabeth is now managing director and client ambassador of The Ability People - a specialist employment company that aims to encourage employment for people with disabilities.
She co-founded the organisation in 2018 after discovering that the UK disability employment gap stood at 30%.
Since then, her work has supported leading businesses, including the AA, HSBC and Heathrow Airport, in creating more accessible and equitable workplaces.
On receiving the Honorary Fellowship, Elizabeth said: “It always feels really special to receive an award where someone has selected, picked or recognised you and your successes and so it’s a great honour to be here today.
Cardiff is also home, so it is always good to come back.”
Alongside her work in media commentary and charity initiatives, Elizabeth is a speaker at corporate events.
Living with cerebral palsy, she shares her inspirational personal journey, offering insight into how the challenges she's faced have shaped her resilience and drive.
Elizabeth illustrates how life's obstacles, rather than holding us back, can become powerful catalysts for personal and professional success.
Dr Cecilia Hannigan-Davies, Acting Dean of Cardiff School of Education and Social Policy said: “The work Elizabeth does perfectly aligns with our values at Cardiff Met, especially in the areas connected to compassionate and thoughtful leadership, cultural diplomacy, innovation, inclusivity and courage.
Elizabeth is also an excellent role model for our students, demonstrating how you can be an elite level disabled athlete, complete a degree and set up a successful business.
“It is a great honour to present Elizabeth with an Honorary Fellowship and we look forward to working together in the future.”
During the graduation ceremony at Wales Millennium Centre, Elizabeth gave advice to students from the School of Education and Social Policy: “It is a long time since I graduated from my undergraduate experience but I think my advice to those graduating today would be that this really is the start of the next chapter.
Up to this point you have sort of followed a very formalised process of education but now you are in charge of your own destiny.
There will be obstacles along the way, but these obstacles always create opportunities, and it is about making sure that you stay true to yourself and surround yourself with the best people to support you at any given time throughout your life.”
Prior to founding The Ability People, which led to Elizabeth being named one of the BBC’s 100 Women in 2018, Elizabeth was also an executive producer for Whisper, a leading media company based in Cardiff.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/sudanese-born-graduate-overcomes-physical-and-language-barriers-to-break-into-sports-media-.php:
A Cardiff Metropolitan University graduate, who moved to Cardiff from Sudan at age 15, has overcome a physical disability, language barriers and a late course change to pursue his passion for sports media.
Born with spina bifida, Omer Hagomer is a wheelchair user and credits sport, particularly wheelchair basketball, with shaping his progress.
Omer is now marking the end of his Sport Media degree with a standout CV, having already worked with Channel 4, covered major rugby tournaments and secured a behind-the-scenes role at the Paris 2024 Paralympic Games.
After arriving in the UK with limited English, Omer enrolled at Willows High School in Tremorfa, Cardiff.
He credits the school with playing a key role in his development in both sport and language.
Omer improved his English at the school’s English after-school club, which is specifically for children developing it as their second language.
The school also introduced him to Cardiff Met’s wheelchair basketball team - a team he’s represented since 2017.
“I’ve always loved sport, especially basketball and wrestling,” Omer said.
“But it wasn’t until the pandemic gave me space to rethink things that I realised I wanted to build a career in it.
When I found the Sport Media course at Cardiff Met, I knew I’d found my way in.”
Originally starting a degree in medical engineering at Cardiff University, Omer transferred to Sport Media during clearing.
Since then, he’s built an impressive track record, gaining experience as a floor manager and reporter through Channel 4 and Media Atom, and as a runner at the Paris Paralympics.
He credits his mentor, Cardiff Met lecturer Joe Towns, with opening doors: “He’s seen potential in me I didn’t see in myself.
He’s pushed me toward opportunities I wouldn’t have had the confidence to go for otherwise.”
After graduation, Omer plans to take a gap year to learn Welsh and expand into bilingual broadcasting, while also continuing basketball training with hopes of returning to the Paralympics as a competitor.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/iranian-refugee-who-demonstrated-remarkable-resilience-to-pursue-education-successfully-graduates--.php:
An Iranian refugee who endured a violent attack shortly after beginning secondary school in Wales - forcing her to take significant time off to recover - will graduate from Cardiff Metropolitan University this week.
Sep Azizimavilkhiavi arrived in the UK from Iran with her family as an asylum seeker in 2014 - after leaving her home country for a safer life - aged 14.
The family was eventually relocated from London to Cardiff, where she has spent the last ten years and now calls home.
Sep, now 24, is graduating from Cardiff Met with a degree in BSc (Hons) Food Science and Nutrition, and explains how education has always been important to her parents.
“My father is a hardworking man and he worked as a mechanic in Iran to pay for an expensive education for myself and my sister.”
However, Sep’s introduction to education in Wales was not a positive experience.
Three days after joining a secondary school in Wales, Sep was the victim of a brutal attack by fellow peers.
As a result of her injuries and in fear of it happening again, Sep was unable to return to school for most of the following academic year.
Despite the attack, Sep eventually returned to school to get her GCSEs before attending sixth form in Cardiff where she succeeded in passing her A-Levels with top grades including an A* in Farsi, B in Maths and a distinction in BTEC Applied Science.
“I cannot credit my sixth form school enough.
One of my teachers, Ms Taylor, was so kind and caring and knew how to deal with a pupil whose first language was not English,” Sep said.
Sep highlighted how looking after her own wellbeing and mental health inspired her to study food science as a degree at Cardiff Met:
“At 18 years old, I started to really focus and see the positive results of having a healthy body after struggling with loneliness and depression.
I found food really helped me.
“I have had a great experience at Cardiff Met, lovely tutors and classmates.
And although my journey has been tough at times, I have met so many kind people along the way.
Who I am now is because of all the ups and down I have experienced.”
Ginnie Winter, Lecturer in Food Science and Technology at Cardiff Metropolitan University, said: “Sep’s approach to her degree should be inspiring for other students for whom English is their second language.
Her attitude, character and determination in everything she does will set her up well for whatever career path she chooses.
I wish her the best.”
Sep has already received job offers and plans to stay living in Cardiff close to her family.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-met-alumni-join-broadcast-teams-for-uefa-womens-euros.php:
ITV has announced an all-star broadcast line-up for the UEFA Women’s Euro 2025 this July, and among the names are two high-profile Cardiff Metropolitan University alumni, Beth Fisher and Nia Jones, alongside several Sport Broadcast graduates working across S4C and the BBC.
Beth Fisher, who studied Sport & Physical Education at Cardiff Met, represented Wales in hockey for 15 years, earning 44 caps.
Since retiring from international sport, she has built an impressive media career and joined ITV Wales in 2019.
This summer, she will report live from Wales fixtures as part of ITV’s national tournament coverage.
Nia Jones, also a Sport & PE graduate, boasts a dual-sport legacy as a former Wales netball captain and a footballer who currently plays for Swansea City.
While at Cardiff Met, she led the university’s netball squad to BUCS Championship victory and was named FAW Young Player of the Year in 2011.
Nia has now transitioned into commentary and joins ITV’s Euros team as a co-commentator.
Joining them on screen is Sioned Dafydd Rowlands, a graduate of Cardiff Met’s first ever Sport Broadcast cohort (Class of 2019), who will host S4C’s coverage live from Switzerland for the duration of the tournament.
Sioned has previously presented Match of the Day Wales and Sgorio and covered global events including the men’s World Cup in Doha.
Behind the scenes, several more Sport Broadcast graduates will play key roles in bringing the tournament to life:
Joe Towns, Innovation Lead for Sport Broadcast Media at Cardiff Met, said: “Seeing Beth and Nia front and centre for ITV is a huge inspiration for our students.
Both are elite athletes turned respected broadcasters, and their success shows how talent, insight and personality can create powerful voices in sport.
Two women who have played sport at the highest level are now broadcasting on the biggest stage.
It’s part of a trend where leading sportswomen now transition into media roles when their careers come to an end.
But let’s be clear, you don’t get these roles unless you are knowledgeable, articulate, authentic, experienced and opinionated, and those are all qualities Beth and Nia have in abundance.
It’s also a proud moment for our course.
Sioned Dafydd, one of our first ever Sport Broadcast graduates, is now hosting S4C’s tournament coverage, and we’ve got alumni like Alexandra, Greg and Gabriella producing BBC content every day from Switzerland.
It’s brilliant to see Cardiff Met graduates shaping the way women’s football is told on screen.”
Audiences can tune in for Wales vs Netherlands on July 5, Wales vs France on July 9 and Wales vs England on July 13, with Cardiff Met voices front and centre, on the pitch, behind the camera and across our screens.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ysgol-dechnolegau:
Mae Ysgol Dechnolegau Caerdydd yn cynnig graddau achrededig, dan arweiniad ymarferol, mewn Peirianneg, Cyfrifiadureg a Thechnolegau Creadigol.
Rydym yn gweithio’n agos gyda chyflogwyr ar draws y diwydiant technoleg i ddylunio cyrsiau sy’n berthnasol i’r diwydiant ac sy’n canolbwyntio ar yrfaoedd yn ofalus, gan gynnig cyfleoedd i chi gael profiad gwaith, parhau â’ch ymchwil, neu astudio gyda’n partneriaid rhyngwladol.
Fydd gennych fynediad at offer a labordai o safon diwydiant, lleoedd unigryw i fyfyrwyr, bythau VR, consolau gemau, a mwy.
Gyda mentoriaid hyfforddi myfyrwyr ymroddedig, mae'r ysgol yn meithrin cymuned gefnogol, glos.
Yn Ysgol Dechnolegau Caerdydd, rydyn ni'n eich adnabod wrth eich enw, a phan fyddwch chi'n astudio gyda ni, mi fyddwch yn dod yn rhan o'n cymuned.
Mae’r Ysgol Dechnolegau yn cynnwys casgliad o labordai a mannau addysgu uwchdechnoleg pwrpasol, ardaloedd dysgu agored ar gyfer cydweithio, canolfan ymchwil i fyfyrwyr Doethuriaeth, ac ardaloedd cymdeithasol arbennig.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-technologies/societies:
We have a diverse range of societies at Cardiff Met, and here at the School of Technologies we are proud of the societies started by our students - that aren’t just solely tech related!
From our Swifties to our Climbers and Gamers​, we guarantee you’ll find something that interests you.
And if you don’t see anything that takes your fancy, you can start up your very own society with full support from our Students Union team.
Societies are a great way to connect with like-minded people, get more out of university, uncover a passion or a new skill, and just have a good time.
Cardiff School of Technologies Society
Capture the Flag Society
Climbing Society
Swiftie Society
Gaming and Esports Society
Formula MET Society
AI Society
Asian Society
"I joined the CTF society back in September 2023, and since then I've been learning more about ethical hacking, tools, and techniques.
In January 2024, I took over as captain, continuing to provide sessions that are easy for new members to approach and helping them understand the importance of Cyber Security as we progress into the future.
Our aim is to create a space where everyone can learn easily — from Wi-Fi security to how vulnerabilities in websites are discovered, and to identifying the flaws seen in technology, both physically and virtually.
We also look out for events for members who are seeking a challenge and want to apply their skills to any kind of scenario."
"I started the rock-climbing society to try and get more tech students physically engaged as we typically tend to spend a lot of time sitting in front of a computer!
The society has grown from strength to strength, starting with just 4 members to now where we have 78 members.
The society is not just about the free weekly climbs we do, it's about the social element too.
We run a weekly social where we arrange activities like ice-skating or meals out.
It’s all about building that sense of belonging within the community and rock climbing has made this so strong, not just for the society, but for the School of Technologies as well."
"Creating Formula Met fuelled my passion for F1 and gave me hands-on experience in design, teamwork, and leadership—ultimately helping me land a placement with McLaren Automotive."

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-technologies/student-coaches:
Student Coaches are current Technologies students who provide academic and mentoring support to students on programmes delivered at the Cardiff School of Technologies (CST).
This network of coaches has helped build our community, giving students a go-to person who is always approachable and who can offer relevant advice based on their experiences within the school.
Our coaches are available Monday to Friday in our communal study and social spaces like Nex​us .
They are easy to spot in their bright yellow t-shirts and navy hoodies.​
“Being a student coach has been fulfilling—helping peers, earning a side income, and connecting with fellow students.
It’s a great experience, and I highly recommend it to anyone passionate about helping others and looking for a flexible job during their studies.”
“Five months into my role as a student coach, I’ve had the opportunity to offer the same support that once helped me.
In reflecting on my journey, I’ve realised how much the challenges I faced as a first-year student have shaped the way I approach coaching.”
“Being a student coach lets me help others while gaining valuable skills for my future career.
The role is vital in CST, providing approachable support and relevant advice from shared experiences, making it easier for students to seek help when needed.”
“As a student coach, I provide academic, career, and emotional support, making a positive impact.
One-on-one mentoring has been rewarding, helping me understand postgrad challenges.
This role enriches the student experience by fostering a supportive and inclusive environment.”
“Becoming a student coach allowed me to gain experience in multiple roles, for example teaching and mentoring my fellow students.
This has allowed me to develop skills and has helped me to figure out what sort of role I would like to go into in the future!”
“I became a student coach to support peers and enhance the university experience in the School of Technologies.
This flexible role lets me assist with academic issues, signposting, and events like movie nights and women in tech evenings, offering tailored advice as someone who’s been in their position.”
Meet our current team of student coaches.
Damilola Amodu MSc Information Technology Management
Matthew Anderson BSc (Hons) Computer Security
Jess Greaves BSc (Hons) Computer Security
Amir Hajianfar BSc (Hons) Computer Science
Mike Harvard PGCE (from BSc Computer Games Design and Development)
Harrison Heales BSc (Hons) Computer Security
Sam Kerslake BSc (Hons) Computer Science
Matthew Luen BSc (Hons) Computer Science
Hannah Natheer MSc Data Science
Caitlin Owens BSc (Hons) Computer Security
Phoebe Swart BSc (Hons) Computer Security
Rylan Trodd BSc (Hons) Computer Science
Callum Waters MSc Robotics and AI

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/school-of-technologies/facilities:
A dedicated space for you to work or unwind in, complete with video games, VR booths and more.
Closely linked to the EUREKA Robotics Centre, offering access to over 120 specialist robots.
Our Electronic Systems Lab offers an immersive experience with software and instrumentation.
Our Games Lab supports with motion capture, VR/AR, and mobile and console development kits.
Develop practical skills using high-spec machines for complex data visualisation and machine learning.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/discover-science-and-tech-this-half-term-at-cardiff-mets-free-stem-event.php:
Families across south Wales are invited to attend a full day of free science and tech workshops this half term as part of the Cardiff Science Festival 2025.
On Saturday, 1 March, from 10am to 5pm, Cardiff Metropolitan University will be running a full day of interactive sessions suitable for primary school children, secondary school students and their families.
Based on its Llandaff Campus, Cardiff Met’s Science Festival event aims to give children and young people more access to science and tech - for free.
The event will feature 20 workshops, including examining red blood cells under a microscope; learning about genes, antibodies and viruses; make your own DNA bracelet; meet Cardiff School of Technologies’ robot man; and creative coding and cryptography.
Attendees will also have the unique opportunity to visit Techniquest’s mobile planetarium for an immersive 360° experience that takes viewers from the depths of the ocean to the spacecrafts orbiting the Earth.
The day is divided into two sessions: Cardiff School of Sport and Health Sciences will lead workshops from 10am-2pm, followed by an afternoon of tech-focused activities with Cardiff School of Technologies from 2pm-5pm.
Each workshop will last between 15-60 minutes dependent on the activity.
The event is part of Cardiff’s annual Science Festival, designed to showcase Cardiff as a hub for science research and world-renowned science communicators.
A thriving centre for STEM activity in the Welsh capital and beyond, Cardiff Met will provide an opportunity for families to experience the University’s facilities and meet the renowned STEM academics leading the workshops.
To register and explore the full list of workshops, visit: Cardiff Science Festival at Cardiff Met 2025 Tickets, Sat 1 Mar 2025 at 10:00 | Eventbrite

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-met-leads-international-partnership-to-empower-women-in-robotics-and-ai.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University has been leading an international initiative to improve gender equality in science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) by delivering training to hundreds of women.
The Partnership in Equality (PIE) for UK-Pakistan Women in Robotics & AI aims to close the gender gap in Robotics and Artificial Intelligence (RAI) by supporting women in the UK and Pakistan to pursue careers in these fields.
With funding from the British Council’s Going Global Partnerships initiative , the project has been led by Dr Shadan Khan Khattak, alongside Dr Chow Siing Sia and Dr Esyin Chew from the University’s Eureka Robotics Centre , in collaboration with the National University of Sciences and Technology (NUST) and eight higher education (HE) and further education (FE) institutions in Pakistan.
As part of the initiative, the PIE team from Cardiff Met and NUST delivered face-to-face Robotics and AI training to 263 female students and 65 female academics at six institutions in Pakistan.
The remaining two institutions were invited to a hybrid event at Cardiff Met.
The project is already having a significant impact: 97% of the training workshops participants expressed a desire to continue studying robotics, while 83% reported that the training had inspired them to explore career opportunities in STEM and AI.
A mentoring network has been established to foster leadership and peer learning, improving access to international opportunities for women who have historically been underrepresented in these fields.
A Robotics Lab at NUST has been established, as well as the integration of 11 social humanoid robots and other robotic equipment in universities in Pakistan, and the signing of two Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) between partner organisations in the country to strengthen future collaboration.
The project also provided a fully funded two-week international placement for one female student, Muskan Devi, from Pakistan’s minority Hindu community, enabling her to gain hands-on STEM training at Cardiff Met’s Eureka Robotics Centre.
Although the British Council funding concluded on 31 January 2025, the mentoring relationships created through the project remain active and the robots placed in Pakistan are still being used by Cardiff Met’s lead partner to conduct STEM Robotics and AI workshops in Pakistani universities, through local sources of funding.
It is hoped that other sources of funding could result in a second phase of the PIE project.
Dr Shadan Khan Khattak, Project Lead, said:
"This collaboration is a major step towards a more inclusive future for women in STEM.
A special thanks to our partners at NUST, led by Dr Farkhanda Afzal, alongside Dr Ayesha Maqbool, Dr Alina Mirza, and Ms Uzma Ehsan for their help in bringing this initiative to life.
Their dedication is inspiring women across Pakistan to see STEM as a viable path for their future."
Dr Farkhanda Afzal, Lead NUST team, said:
"I am deeply honoured to have been part of the exceptional PIE project which provided us with a unique opportunity to advance our gender gap in STEM journey with a focus on Robotics & AI.
We are thrilled to have partnered with the esteemed Eureka Robotics Centre and Cardiff Metropolitan University, whose unwavering support has been instrumental in making this project a success.”
Dr Anila Kamal, Vice-Chancellor, Rawalpindi Women University, said:
“We're thrilled to have supported the PIE team introducing a new STEM pathway in Robotics and AI.
Our students and staff benefited from workshops and mentoring, while PIE has fostered collaborations with international and national universities, enhancing our research and development prospects."

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/opinion-metas-factchecker-cut-has-sparked-controversy--but-the-real-threat-is-ai-and-neurotechnology.php:
In an article written for The Conversation exploring Meta’s recent decision to implement X-style ‘community notes’, Cardiff School of Technologies’ academics, Dr Fiona Carroll and Rafael Weber Hoss raise ethical questions about AI and neurotechnology enabling the spread of unchecked falsehoods.
Mark Zuckerberg’s recent decision to remove factcheckers from Meta’s platforms – including Facebook, Instagram and Threads – has sparked heated debate .
Critics argue it may undermine efforts to combat misinformation and maintain credibility on social media platforms.
Yet, while much attention is directed at this move, a far more profound challenge looms.
The rise of artificial intelligence (AI) that processes and generates human-like language, as well as technology that aims to read the human brain , has the potential to reshape not only online discourse but also our fundamental understanding of truth and communication.
Factcheckers have long played an important role in curbing misinformation on various platforms, especially on topics like politics, public health and climate change.
By verifying claims and providing context, they have helped platforms maintain a degree of accountability.
So, Meta’s move to replace them with community-driven notes , similar to Elon Musk’s approach on X (formerly Twitter), has understandably raised concerns.
Many experts view the decision to remove factcheckers as a step backward , arguing that delegating content moderation to users risks amplifying echo chambers and enabling the spread of unchecked falsehoods.
Billions of people worldwide use Meta’s various platforms each month, so they wield enormous influence.
Loosening safeguards could exacerbate societal polarisation and undermine trust in digital communication.
But while the debate over factchecking dominates headlines, there is a bigger picture.
Advanced AI models like OpenAI’s ChatGPT or Google’s Gemini represent significant strides in natural language understanding.
These systems can generate coherent, contextually relevant text and answer complex questions.
They can even engage in nuanced conversations.
And this ability to convincingly replicate human communication introduces unprecedented challenges.
AI-generated content blurs the line between human and machine authorship.
This raises ethical questions about authorship, originality and accountability.
The same tools that power helpful innovations can also be weaponised to produce sophisticated disinformation campaigns or manipulate public opinion.
These risks are compounded by other emerging technology.
Inspired by human cognition, neural networks mimic the way the brain processes language.
This intersection between AI and neurotechnology highlights the potential for both understanding and exploiting human thought.
Implications
Neurotechnology is a tool that reads and interacts with the brain.
Its goal is to understand how we think.
Like AI, it pushes the limits of what machines can do.
The two fields overlap in powerful ways.
For example, REMspace, a California startup, is building a tool that records dreams.
Using a brain-computer interface, it lets people communicate through lucid dreaming.
While this sounds exciting, it also raises questions about mental privacy and control over our own thoughts.
Meanwhile, Meta’s investments in neurotechnology alongside its AI ventures are also concerning.
Several other global companies are exploring neurotechnology too.
But how will data from brain activity or linguistic patterns be used?
And what safeguards will prevent misuse?
If AI systems can predict or simulate human thoughts through language, the boundary between external communication and internal cognition begins to blur.
These advancements could erode trust, expose people to exploitation and reshape the way we think about communication and privacy.
Research also suggests that while this type of technology could enhance learning it may also stifle creativity and self-discipline, particularly in children.
Meta’s decision to remove factcheckers deserves scrutiny, but it’s just one part of a much larger challenge.
AI and neurotechnology are forcing us to rethink how we use language, express thoughts and even understand the world around us.
How can we ensure these tools serve humanity rather than exploit it?
The lack of rules to manage these tools is alarming.
To protect fundamental human rights, we need strong legislation and cooperation across different industries and governments.
Striking this balance is crucial.
The future of truth and trust in communication depends on our ability to navigate these challenges with vigilance and foresight.
For further information or to arrange an interview with Reader in Human Computer Interaction, Dr Fiona Carroll or PhD Candidate in Intelligence Technologies and Digital Design, Rafael Weber Hoss, please contact press@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call 029 2041 6362.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/opinion-putting-deepseek-to-the-test-how-its-performance-compares-against-other-ai-tools.php:
In an article first featured in The Conversation , Senior Lecturer in Computing and Information Systems at Cardiff Metropolitan University, Dr Simon Thorne , investigates how DeepSeek’s AI chatbot, R1’s performance compares to similar AI tools.
“China’s new DeepSeek Large Language Model (LLM) has disrupted the US-dominated market , offering a relatively high-performance chatbot model at significantly lower cost.
The reduced cost of development and lower subscription prices compared with US AI tools contributed to American chip maker Nvidia losing US$600 billion (£480 billion) in market value over one day.
Nvidia makes the computer chips used to train the majority of LLMs, the underlying technology used in ChatGPT and other AI chatbots.
DeepSeek uses cheaper Nvidia H800 chips over the more expensive state-of-the-art versions.
ChatGPT developer OpenAI reportedly spent somewhere between US$100 million and US$1 billion on the development of a very recent version of its product called o1.
In contrast, DeepSeek accomplished its training in just two months at a cost of US$5.6 million using a series of clever innovations.
But just how well does DeepSeek’s AI chatbot, R1, compare with other, similar AI tools on performance?
DeepSeek claims its models perform comparably to OpenAI’s offerings, even exceeding the o1 model in certain benchmark tests.
However, benchmarks that use Massive Multitask Language Understanding (MMLU) tests evaluate knowledge across multiple subjects using multiple choice questions.
Many LLMs are trained and optimised for such tests, making them unreliable as true indicators of real-world performance.
An alternative methodology for the objective evaluation of LLMs uses a set of tests developed by researchers at Cardiff Metropolitan, Bristol and Cardiff universities – known collectively as the Knowledge Observation Group (KOG).
These tests probe LLMs’ ability to mimic human language and knowledge through questions that require implicit human understanding to answer.
The core tests are kept secret, to avoid LLM companies training their models for these tests.
KOG deployed public tests inspired by work by Colin Fraser, a data scientist at Meta , to evaluate DeepSeek against other LLMs.
The following results were observed:
The tests used to produce this table are “adversarial” in nature.
In other words, they are designed to be “hard” and to test LLMs in way that are not sympathetic to how they are designed.
This means the performance of these models in this test is likely to be different to their performance in mainstream benchmarking tests.
DeepSeek scored 5.5 out of 6, outperforming OpenAI’s o1 – its advanced reasoning (known as “chain-of-thought”) model – as well as ChatGPT-4o, the free version of ChatGPT.
But Deepseek was marginally outperformed by Anthropic’s ClaudeAI and OpenAI’s o1 mini, both of which scored a perfect 6/6.
It’s interesting that o1 underperformed against its “smaller” counterpart, o1 mini.
DeepThink R1 – a chain-of-thought AI tool made by DeepSeek – underperformed in comparison to DeepSeek with a score of 3.5.
This result shows how competitive DeepSeek’s chatbot already is, beating OpenAI’s flagship models.
It is likely to spur further development for DeepSeek, which now has a strong foundation to build upon.
However, the Chinese tech company does have one serious problem the other LLMs do not: censorship.
Despite its strong performance and popularity, DeepSeek has faced criticism over its responses to politically sensitive topics in China.
For instance, prompts related to Tiananmen Square, Taiwan, Uyghur Muslims and democratic movements are met with the response: “Sorry, that is beyond my current scope.”
But this issue is not necessarily unique to DeepSeek, and the potential for political influence and censorship in LLMs more generally is a growing concern.
The announcement of Donald Trump’s US$500 billion Stargate LLM project , involving OpenAI, Nvidia, Oracle, Microsoft, and Arm, also raises fears of political influence.
Additionally, Meta’s recent decision to abandon fact-checking on Facebook and Instagram suggests an increasing trend toward populism over truthfulness.
DeepSeek’s arrival has caused serious disruption to the LLM market.
US companies such as OpenAI and Anthropic will be forced to innovate their products to maintain relevance and match its performance and cost.
DeepSeek’s success is already challenging the status quo, demonstrating that high-performance LLM models can be developed without billion-dollar budgets.
It also highlights the risks of LLM censorship, the spread of misinformation, and why independent evaluations matter.
As LLMs become more deeply embedded in global politics and business, transparency and accountability will be essential to ensure that the future of LLMs is safe, useful and trustworthy.”
For further information or to arrange an interview with Dr Simon Thorne, please contact press@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call 029 2041 6362.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2024/computer-games-design-and-development-course-achieves-tiga-accreditation.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University's BSc (Hons) Computer Games Design and Development course has received accreditation from TIGA, the trade association representing the UK video games industry.
TIGA introduced the TIGA Accreditation process in January 2015 to ensure that universities and colleges can produce graduates with industry relevant skills.
The TIGA Accreditation system accredits the very best undergraduate and postgraduate university courses enabling both prospective students and game developers to identify those courses that are producing industry ready graduates.
Dr Richard Wilson OBE, TIGA CEO, said: “Students graduating from BSc (Hons) Computer Games Design and Development at Cardiff Metropolitan University are well-equipped in computer science practices aligned to the needs of the games industry.
The course benefits from a 'spiral curricular' design ethos which provides students with opportunities to revisit and explore key concepts throughout the course, thereby reinforcing learning.
The course has a focus on programming and provides opportunities for teamworking, collaboration and the development of important transferable skills."
Students on the BSc (Hons) Computer Games Design and Development course are provided with hands-on experience in game production, collaboration, and complimentary skillsets.
This in turn enables the University's games graduates to secure relevant employment.
Professor Jon Platts, Dean of Cardiff School of Technologies said: “We are delighted with this recognition from TIGA, the trade association representing the UK Games Industry and are proud of each of the programme team.
Their dedication to the student experience, energy, and collaborative spirit have culminated in this remarkable success and is a testament to their collective effort and commitment to excellence.
On behalf of the school, I would like to them all and congratulate them on achieving this recognition."
Associate Professor Mark Wickham, TIGA Educational Advisor & Director of Computer Arts and Technology, Norwich University of the Arts, said: “It's been a pleasure to hear from the course team and learn more about both the curriculum and delivery on BSc (Hons) Computer Games Design and Development.
The course offers support to its students though a diverse range of staff aptitudes, skillsets, knowledge, and experience.
In turn, this ensures graduates are well prepared for an evolving and expanded industry, with computer science at their core."
Dr Simon Scarle, Programme Director for BSc Games Design and Development at Cardiff Met, said: “This is really gratifying to see our games team's hard work being recognised by TIGA's Accreditation Team and confirming that we are providing our students with the skills they need for the games industry."
More information on the TIGA accreditation process is available on the website.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2023/groundbreaking-app-set-to-improve-the-lives-of-people-living-with-dementia-and-carers.php:
A new app which aims to support People with Dementia (PwD) and their carers, by creating a virtual community and unique activities to help with independent living has been announced.
In collaboration with Age Connects Torfaen (ACT), Cardiff Metropolitan University are one of the 24 semi-finalists to receive £80k grants as part of the overall £4m Longitude Prize on Dementia, to develop the app, known as DementiaConnect.
The DementiaConnect app will address the challenges associated with ‘Sundowning Syndrome’.
This syndrome typically occurs during the late afternoon to early evening and causes increased distress, agitation and the occurrence of hallucinations or delusions.
These symptoms significantly impact the wellbeing of PwD and place psychological and physical pressures on both the individuals and their carers.
To assist PwD, the app will offer personalised visual instructions in the form of icons or images.
These instructions will allow PwD to carry out daily activities such as brushing your teeth or prompting to drink regularly, as well as participate and enjoy activities including playing board games, engaging in reminiscence with pictures or music, and participating in relaxation exercises, either individually or in group settings.
Furthermore, the app will incorporate an intelligent agent, such as ChatGPT, to facilitate human-like discussions.
Dr Imtiaz Ali Khan, Reader in Data Science at Cardiff School of Technologies, said: “The primary objective of this AI-assisted support system is to relieve the burden on carers and alleviate the strain on social and healthcare services.
By empowering People with Dementia, the app aims to enhance their confidence in living independently.
Our ultimate goal is to have a positive, global impact on Dementia care, leading to a substantial improvement in the overall well-being and experience of those affected by the condition.
“The app will utilise machine learning algorithms based on social network analysis principles.
These algorithms will enable the formation of peer-to-peer networks based on common interests or activities, and thereby enhancing the enjoyment and effectiveness of group activities.
Additionally, a visualisation dashboard will be available to members of ACT and carers, allowing them to monitor key performance indicators related to the well-being of PwD.”
The high-fidelity design of the DementiaConnect app has already been constructed through the recently completed Accelerator Knowledge Transfer (AKT) project, which was funded £28k by Innovate UK.
Through this project, Cardiff Met and the ACT team will be able to access technical and expert support and mentorship from Alzheimer Society, Innovate UK & Challenge Works (Nesta), key stakeholders of the Longitude Prize.
Emma Wootten, Development Manager at Age Connects Torfaen, said: “Age Connects Torfaen is thrilled to receive the Longitude Prize on Dementia.
It provides us with an opportunity to develop an innovative solution to the day-to-day problems experienced by People with Dementia.
By partnering with Cardiff Metropolitan University we hope to develop an app which will support people living with Dementia to live joyfully and independently.
We are excited to start the process in developing the app and look forward to engaging with Carers and their loved ones on this journey.”
The Longitude Prize on Dementia is driving the development of personalised, technology-based tools that are co-created with people living with the early stages of dementia, helping them live independent, more fulfilled lives and enable them to do the things they enjoy.
The £4m Longitude Prize on Dementia launched in 2022, with the aim of addressing the challenges related to independent living and fulfilling the lives of individuals with dementia.
175 innovators from 28 countries submitted their entries, Cardiff Met and ACT team were chosen as one of the 24 semi-finalists.
A total of £1.9m has been awarded to the 24 pioneering teams of developers, researchers and innovators from across the globe in the international challenge competition funded by Alzheimer’s Society and Innovate UK, and designed and delivered by Challenge Works.
Kate Lee, CEO, Alzheimer’s Society, said: “It’s vital people with dementia are able to live independently, doing things that bring them fulfilment, for as long as possible.
And that’s exactly what tech innovation can provide.
Today’s Discovery Award winners all have the capacity to develop cutting-edge tools that bring hope to the here and now, making a tangible difference to people’s lives.
New drugs have been discovered which slow the progression of early Alzheimer’s disease, but there’s still more to do.
Alzheimer’s Society remains committed to innovative projects like the Longitude Prize so that together we can improve the lives of people living with dementia and their families.”
Indro Mukerjee, CEO, Innovate UK said: “By addressing dementia the Longitude Prize tackles a global health crisis.
Worldwide, around 50 million people have dementia and there are nearly 10 million new cases every year.
Innovate UK is pleased to support this initiative along with the other vital work we are doing in this area.
The UK is a global leader in innovation for healthy ageing and this prize will incentivise new technologies.
This will help people with dementia, their families and their carers, to make living with the condition easier.”
The DementiaConnect project will position Cardiff Metropolitan University School of Technologies and Age Connect Torfaen at the forefront of Dementia care pathway standards for Wales and beyond.
The DementiaConnect promotional video can be viewed here .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/diwrnodau-agored-a-digwyddiadau:
Mae ein Diwrnodau Agored i israddedigion yn gyfle perffaith i chi gael gwybod mwy am y cyrsiau y mae gennych ddiddordeb ynddynt.
Siaradwch â thiwtoriaid cwrs a myfyrwyr; ewch am daith o gwmpas ein cyfleusterau, llety a champysau; darganfyddwch ragor am Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd a mwy.
Mae hefyd yn cyfle i chi ymweld â Chaerdydd ac archwilio ein dinas wych.
Mae cofrestru nawr ar agor ar gyfer y dyddiadau Diwrnod Agored canlynol:
Dydd Sadwrn 11 Hydref 2025 Dydd Sadwrn 8 Tachwedd 2025
Ymunwch ag un o'n teithiau campws dan arweiniad llysgenhadon myfyrwyr.
Cofrestrwch trwy'r ddolen isod i sicrhau eich lle ac archwilio ein cyfleusterau.
Wedi gwneud cais i gwrs israddedig ym Met Caerdydd?
Mae mynychu Diwrnod Ymgeisydd yn gyfle gwych i gael blas ymarferol ar y cwrs yr ydych wedi gwneud cais amdano.
O weminarau ar-lein yn ymdrin â manteision astudio ôl-raddedig a chyfleoedd ariannu, i weminarau pwnc-benodol a digwyddiadau ar y campws.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/diwrnodau-agored-a-digwyddiadau/teithiau-campws:
Cofrestrwch am Daith Campws i archwilio ein cyfleusterau a gweld yr hyn sydd gan Met Caerdydd i’w gynnig.
Caiff Teithiau Campws eu harwain gan ein Llysgenhadon Myfyrwyr cyfeillgar ac maent hefyd yn gyfle i chi ofyn unrhyw gwestiynau sydd gennych am fywyd myfyrwyr ac astudio ym Met Caerdydd.
I weld dyddiadau ein teithiau campws, edrychwch ar y ffurflen isod.
Byddwch yn ymwybodol, cynhelir ein Teithiau Campws Clirio ar y dyddiadau canlynol a'r sail galw heibio rhwng 10yb a 2yp:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/diwrnodau-agored-a-digwyddiadau/dyddiau-ymgeiswyr:
Mae ein Diwrnodau Ymgeiswyr yn gyfle perffaith i chi ymgolli ym mywyd Met Caerdydd.
Byddwch yn cael rhagflas o'r cwrs yr ydych wedi gwneud cais amdano, yn cael profiad o'n haddysgu a'n cyfleusterau o ansawdd uchel, yn ogystal â chwrdd â staff a myfyrwyr i sgwrsio am bopeth Met Caerdydd.​
Bydd ystod o wasanaethau cymorth o bob rhan o’r Brifysgol hefyd wrth law i sgwrsio â nhw, gan gynnwys llety, chwaraeon perfformio, astudio’r Gymraeg, a mwy.​
Wrth i ddyddiadau gael eu cadarnhau, bydd ein Tîm Derbyniadau yn cysylltu â chi gyda’r holl fanylion sydd eu hangen arnoch i gofrestru eich lle.
Sylwch: gall rhai dyddiau ymgeiswyr amrywio yn dibynnu ar y cwrs y gwneir cais amdano.
Bydd pob gwahoddiad yn amlinellu’r rhaglen benodol y gallwch ei disgwyl ar y diwrnod.​
Os ydych chi eisoes wedi mynychu diwrnod agored Met Caerdydd, dyma restr o'r pethau ychwanegol y byddwch chi'n eu profi trwy fynychu'ch diwrnod ymgeiswyr ym Met Caerdydd:​
Diwrnod Agored
Diwrnod Ymgeiswyr
Taith Campws
Sgwrs Cwrs
Taith Llety
Gwybodaeth am Gyllid Myfyrwyr​
Gwybodaeth am Gyfleusterau Cefnogaeth
Sesiwn Profiad Cwrs
Profwch gynnwys eich cwrs gyda sesiwn flasu gan eich timau addysgu.
Byddwch yn cael y cyfle i ddysgu'n uniongyrchol sut beth fyddai astudio'r cwrs o'ch dewis, gan brofi'r addysgu a'r cyfleusterau.
Holi ac Ateb Panel Myfyrwyr
Gofynnwch eich cwestiynau i’n myfyrwyr presennol, boed hynny’n gwestiynau ar fywyd myfyriwr yng Nghaerdydd, rhagolygon cyflogadwyedd, cyllidebu, gallwch glywed gan fyfyrwyr a oedd yn eich esgidiau ychydig flynyddoedd yn ôl.​
Holi ac Ateb Panel Rhieni​
Gall rhieni a gwesteion sy’n mynychu ofyn eu cwestiynau i’n panel o rieni myfyrwyr sydd wedi, neu sydd ar hyn o bryd, yn tywys eu myfyrwyr ar eu taith i’r brifysgol.​​
✗​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/diwrnodau-agored-a-digwyddiadau/cofrestrwch-ar-gyfer-digwyddiad-ol-raddedig:
Mae cofrestru ar gyfer ein digwyddiadau Ôl-raddedig bellach ar agor.
Llenwch y ffurflen isod i gofrestru ar gyfer un o’n digwyddiadau.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety:
Mae dod o hyd i’r lle gorau i fyw yn rhan allweddol o’ch profiad prifysgol.
Ym Met Caerdydd, rydym yn cynnig opsiynau llety ar y campws ac opsiynau preifat sydd wedi'u cynllunio i ddarparu amgylchedd diogel, cymdeithasol a chefnogol.
Ar hyn o bryd mae gennym bron i 1,000 o ystafelloedd gwely astudio ar gampysau Cyncoed a Phlas Gwyn.
Rydym yn cynnig amgylchedd diogel ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd yn byw ar y campws, gyda staff neuaddau cyfeillgar i ddarparu cymorth a'ch helpu trwy gydol eich amser gyda ni.
Yn ogystal, rydym hefyd yn dyrannu ychydig dros 1,200 o neuaddau en-suite preifat i fyfyrwyr trwy gytundebau enwebu gyda neuaddau preifat sydd wedi'u lleoli ger y campysau.
Gyda 549 o ystafelloedd ar draws y campws.
Yn cynnig cymysgedd o ystafelloedd arlwyo, hunanarlwyo, en-suite a chyfleusterau a rennir.
Addas ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n astudio Chwaraeon, Addysg neu'r Dyniaethau.
Wedi'i leoli'n agos at gampws Llandaf gyda 392 o ystafelloedd en-suite hunanarlwyo.
Yn addas ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n astudio Celf a Dylunio, Rheolaeth, Gwyddorau Iechyd a Thechnolegau.
Mae Met Caerdydd wedi sicrhau dros 1,200 o ystafelloedd gwely astudio en-suite mewn neuaddau preswyl breifat, y mae rhai ohonynt wedi'u lleoli'n agos at y campysau.
Nod ein rhaglen Bywyd Pres sydd wedi ennill gwobrau ac sydd AM DDIM yw gwneud byw mewn neuaddau yn un o brofiadau gorau eich bywyd prifysgol.
Mae ein calendr blwyddyn o hyd yn cynnwys digwyddiadau wythnosol wedi’i anelu at fyfyrwyr blwyddyn gyntaf yn neuaddau Met Caerdydd.
Rydyn ni wedi rhoi tocynnau i'n myfyrwyr i gemau rygbi Cymru, sglefrio iâ, premières ffilm, yoga, nosweithiau pitsa, clybiau llyfrau, twrnameintiau FIFA, torri gwallt, tripiau dydd a nifer o ddigwyddiadau cymdeithasol eraill.
Mae ein myfyrwyr yn dweud wrthym sut beth yw byw mewn neuaddau myfyrwyr yn y barbeciw diwedd blwyddyn a drefnwyd gan ResLife.
Dyma ​Holly, myfyrwraig Astudiaethau Addysg Gynradd, yn sôn am sut brofiad yw byw mewn neuaddau myfyrwyr.
Dyma fyfyrwyr presennol Gavin a Sam gyda phopeth sydd angen i chi ei wybod am fywyd mewn llety myfyrwyr.
Mae Josie, myfyrwraig y Dyniaethau, yn blogio'i hawgrymiadau da ar gyfer byw yn neuaddau Cyncoed.
Mae Ella, myfyrwraig Marchnata Ffasiwn, yn rhannu ei phrofiad o fyw yn neuaddau Plas Gwyn.
Mae Meriem, myfyriwr dyniaethau, yn blogio am ei chanllaw i ddewis llety a setlo i fywyd mewn gwlad newydd.
Eisiau gweld ein hopsiynau llety yn bersonol?
Dewch i'n gweld mewn Diwrnod Agored.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence:
Cardiff Metropolitan University aims to provide a safe and secure environment for students living on campus, with friendly Halls staff available to provide support and help throughout your stay with us.
We currently have nearly 1000 study bedrooms located at the Cyncoed and Plas Gwyn campuses.
In addition, we also allocate just over 1200 rooms to students through nomination agreements with private halls located near to the campuses.
The private halls rooms must only be booked via Cardiff Met and not directly with Unite.
You can apply for Halls online from 1st April 2025​.
From September 2020 Cardiff Metropolitan University campuses became 'Smoke Free' and no smoking is permitted on any campus.
Please ensure that a 42, 43 or 44 week contract for Halls is suitable for your studies, as if you wish to finish earlier then you will need to find alternative accommodation.
Your Cardiff Met Academic School will be able to confirm when your course ends.
C​ardiff Met Halls Managers are present at each of the campuses and are supported by a team of trained student wardens who are usually mature or final year students who have previously lived in halls.
Evening and weekend duty rotas ensure that a member of staff and a student warden are always available to deal with queries or emergencies.
The private halls providers have their own 24 hour security arrangements in place.
Cardiff Metropolitan University has signed up to the Universities UK/Guild HE Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing which ensures that University owned and managed accommodation meets good practice levels along with minimum standards​.
Cardiff Metropolitan University has signed up to the Universities UK/Guild HE Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing which ensures that University owned and managed accommodation meets good practice levels along with minimum standards.
Learn how to apply and what you need to complete your online ​application for halls.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/neuaddau-preswyl/campws-cyncoed:
Mae Neuaddau Cyncoed wedi’u lleoli mewn tiroedd wedi’u tirlunio ac yn cynnig y fantais o astudio, hyfforddi a byw ar y campws.
Gwasanaethir y campws yn rheolaidd gan Fws Caerdydd 52, sy'n darparu cludiant cyfleus i ardaloedd myfyrwyr y Rhath a Cathays o fewn 10 munud, yn ogystal â chynnig trafnidiaeth i ganol dinas Caerdydd.
Mae'r campws 10 munud ar droed o archfarchnad a Pharc y Rhath.
Heol Cyncoed, Caerdydd, CF23 6XD
Gweld ar y map
Mae'r campws yn cynnig cyfanswm o 549 o ystafelloedd fel a ganlyn:
Mae'r holl filiau wedi'u cynnwys yn eich rhent ac ni fydd yn cynyddu yn ystod y flwyddyn academaidd .
Yn addas ar gyfer myfyrwyr Met Caerdydd sy'n astudio Chwaraeon yn Ysgol Chwaraeon a Gwyddorau Iechyd Caerdydd ac ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n astudio yn Ysgol Addysg a Pholisi Cymdeithasol Caerdydd*.
*Mae rhaglenni mewn Gwaith Cymdeithasol, Iechyd a Gofal Cymdeithasol a Thai yn cael eu haddysgu ar gampws Llandaf.
O'r herwydd mae Plas Gwyn yn opsiwn gwell i fyfyrwyr sy'n astudio'r cyrsiau hynny.
Dysgwch sut i wneud cais a beth sydd ei angen arnoch i gwblhau eich cais ar-lein am neuaddau.
Mae’r campws hwn yn cynnig pum categori o lety, ac mae’r costau’n seiliedig ar y safon berthnasol, y cyfleusterau ychwanegol sydd ar gael, ac a ydych yn dewis opsiwn hunanarlwyo neu opsiwn arlwyo.
Wrth wneud cais am lety gallwch restru pa fath yr hoffech iddo gael ei ddyrannu yn nhrefn blaenoriaeth.
Fodd bynnag, ni allwn bob amser warantu y byddwch yn cael eich dewis cyntaf.​
£152 yr wythnos – Cytundeb 42 wythnos
Yn cynnig un stydi, ystafell wely en-suite gyda mynediad i gegin a rennir, llawn offer.
Mae pob fflat yn cael ei rannu gan 8 myfyriwr.​
£158 yr wythnos – Cytundeb 42 wythnos
£168 yr wythnos – Cytundeb 42 wythnos
Mae pob ystafell yn cynnwys ¾ gwely gydag en-suite a mynediad i gegin a rennir gyda chyfarpar llawn.
Mae pob fflat yn cael ei rannu gan 8 myfyriwr.
£203 yr wythnos – Cytundeb 42 wythnos
Mae pob ystafell yn cynnwys gwely sengl gyda mynediad i gyfleusterau ystafell ymolchi a rennir a chegin sylfaenol a rennir.
Rhennir pob fflat rhwng 8-10 o fyfyrwyr.
Dyma ein dewis mwyaf gwerth am arian tra'n rhoi'r cyfleustra i chi o fod ar y campws ac yng nghanol ein cymuned myfyrwyr.
£228 yr wythnos – Cytundeb 42 wythnos
Mae pob ystafell yn cynnwys un ai gwely sengl neu ¾ gwely gydag ensuite a mynediad i gegin a rennir.
Rhennir pob fflat rhwng 10-16 o fyfyrwyr.
*Neuaddau arlwyo = dau pryd o fwyd y dydd, saith diwrnod yr wythnos.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/neuaddau-preswyl/campws-plas-gwyn:
​Mae campws Plas Gwyn wedi’i leoli mewn tiroedd deniadol wedi’u tirlunio, wedi’i leoli yn ‘dinas’ gadeiriol ddymunol Llandaf sydd mewn lleoliad cyfleus ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy’n mynychu Campws Llandaf a dim ond dwy filltir o ganol y ddinas.
Mae yna siopau, bwytai, bariau, cyfleusterau bancio a chyfleusterau eraill o fewn 5 munud ar droed a gwasanaethir y campws yn rheolaidd gan Fws Caerdydd sy'n cludo myfyrwyr yn syth i ganol y ddinas mewn 10 munud.
Heol Llantrisant, Llandaf, Caerdydd, CF5 2XJ
Mae Plas Gwyn yn cynnwys 392 o ystafelloedd gwely astudio sengl, pob un ohonynt yn hunanarlwyo gyda chyfleusterau ystafell ymolchi ensuite:
Mae'r ystafelloedd wedi'u grwpio mewn fflatiau o wyth lle mae myfyrwyr yn rhannu cegin/ardaloedd bwyta cymunedol.
Mae'r holl filiau wedi'u cynnwys yn eich rhent ac ni fydd yn cynyddu yn ystod y flwyddyn academaidd.
Yn addas ar gyfer myfyrwyr Met Caerdydd sy'n astudio yn Ysgol Gelf a Dylunio Caerdydd, Ysgol Reoli Caerdydd; Gwyddorau Iechyd (rhan o Ysgol Chwaraeon a Gwyddorau Iechyd Caerdydd) ac Ysgol Dechnolegau Caerdydd.
Mae’r campws hwn yn cynnig tri chategori o lety, ac mae’r costau’n seiliedig ar y safon berthnasol a’r cyfleusterau ychwanegol sydd ar gael.
Wrth wneud cais am lety gallwch restru pa fath yr hoffech gael ei ddyrannu yn nhrefn blaenoriaeth.
Fodd bynnag, ni allwn bob amser warantu y byddwch yn cael eich dewis a ffefrir.​
£152 yr wythnos – cytundeb 42 wythnos
Mae ein hopsiwn mwyaf gwerth am arian yn cynnig ystafell wely en-suite astudio sengl (gan gynnwys oergell fach) gyda mynediad i gegin a rennir, gyda chyfarpar llawn.
£161 yr wythnos – cytundeb 42 wythnos
Yn cynnig stydi sengl wedi'i hadnewyddu, ystafell wely en-suite (gan gynnwys oergell fach) gyda mynediad i gegin wedi'i hadnewyddu'n llawn a rennir.
£168 yr wythnos – cytundeb 42 wythnos
Yn cynnig ystafell wely fwy gydag oergell fach a man cymdeithasol ychwanegol yn y gegin a rennir, gyda chyfarpar llawn.
Cafodd pob un ei adnewyddu o fewn y 2 flynedd ddiwethaf.​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/neuaddau-preswyl/neuaddau-partner:
Mae Met Caerdydd wedi sicrhau dros 1,200 o ystafelloedd gwely astudio en-suite mewn neuaddau preswyl breifat, y mae rhai ohonynt wedi’u lleoli’n agos at y campysau.
Mae pob un o’r Neuaddau’n cael eu gwasanaethu’n rheolaidd gan wasanaethau Bws Caerdydd neu’n ddigon agos i gerdded i’r campws.
Mae gan Met Caerdydd berthynas hirsefydlog gyda phob un o’r neuaddau hyn, sy’n darparu llety modern sy’n gyfeillgar i fyfyrwyr am bris gostyngol.
Cofiwch, i sicrhau ystafell yn un o’r Neuaddau hyn bydd angen i chi wneud cais trwy ni yn unig!
Peidiwch â gwneud cais yn uniongyrchol gan y bydd yn costio mwy, bydd gennych gontract hirach ac efallai na fyddwch yn byw gyda myfyrwyr Met Caerdydd.
Lleolir Unite Blackweir Lodge ger Campws Llandaf, gyda dros 400 o ystafelloedd a'r neuaddau a feddiannir gan fyfyrwyr Met Caerdydd yn unig.
Mae pob un o’r ystafelloedd yn ystafelloedd sengl, sy’n hunanarlwyo ac sydd â chyfleusterau ystafell ymolchi en suite.
Mae gan bob ystafell fynediad i’r rhyngrwyd a setiau teledu yn y gegin/lolfa gymunedol.
Gerllaw mae bwytai a siopau ac mae’n daith gerdded 10 munud i Ganol y Ddinas neu 25 munud i Gampws Llandaf.
Mae North Court yn agos at Gampws Llandaf.
Mae pob ystafell yn hunanarlwyo ac mae ganddynt gyfleusterau ystafell ymolchi en​suite.
Myfyrwyr Met Caerdydd yn unig sy’n meddiannu dros 230 o ystafelloedd a’r neuaddau.
Mae gan bob ystafell fynediad i’r rhyngrwyd.
Gerllaw mae bwytai a siopau ac mae’n daith bws 10 munud i Ganol y Ddinas.
Lleolir Unite The Bakery yng nghanol y ddinas.
Mae pob ystafell yn hunanarlwyo ac mae ganddynt gyfleusterau ystafell ymolchi en suite.
Gerllaw mae cannoedd o fwytai, bariau a siopau ac mae’n daith gerdded 5 munud i ddal Bws Caerdydd 52 am Gyncoed neu Fws Caerdydd 25 ar gyfer Llandaf.
Mae pob ystafell wely yn ystafelloedd deiliadaeth sengl sy’n hunanarlwyo, mae ganddynt ystafelloedd ymolchi en-suite a gwelyau 4 troedfedd o led.
Mae Cambrian Point yn daith gerdded 20-25 munud o gampws Met Caerdydd yn Llandaf ac ychydig dros filltir o ganol y ddinas.
Wedi'i leoli yn ardal fyfyrwyr poblogaidd Cathays, mae'n agos at siopau, amwynderau lleol, a mannau gwyrdd fel Blackweir Fields a Pharc Bute.
Mae llwybrau bws cyfagos yn darparu teithio'n hawdd i gampysau Llandaf a Chyncoed.
Lleolir Unite Tŷ Pont Haearn (a elwir hefyd yn TPH) yng nghanol y ddinas.
Gerllaw mae cannoedd o fwytai, bariau a siopau ac mae’n daith gerdded 10 munud i ddal Bws Caerdydd 52 am Gyncoed neu Fws Caerdydd 25 ar gyfer Llandaf.
Lleolir Yugo Arofan House​ oddi ar Heol y Ddinas yn agos i ganol y ddinas.
O fewn pellter cerdded mae llawer o fwytai, bariau a siopau ac mae’n daith gerdded 6 munud i ddal Bws Caerdydd 52 am y daith 13 munud i Gampws Cyncoed.
Wedi’i leoli mewn man delfrydol, ger Parc y Rhath ac ardal fywiog Cathays – sy’n llawn detholiad gwych o fariau, tafarndai a bwytai – mae Tŷ Clodien yn cynnig lleoliad bywiog i fyw ac astudio.
Mae campws Cyncoed yn hawdd ei gyrraedd, dim ond 30 munud ar droed neu’n daith fer ar y bws.
Mae hefyd wedi’i gysylltu’n dda â chanol y ddinas, siopau lleol a champws Llandaf, gan ei wneud yn ganolfan gyfleus ar gyfer astudio a hamdden.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/partner-halls/blackweir-lodge-unite-students:
Blackweir Lodge is exclusively for Cardiff Met students, located in the student-friendly Cathays area.
Around one mile from the city centre and a 25 minute walk to Llandaff campus, it's easily accessible by bus to both Llandaff and Cyncoed campuses.
Enjoy nearby Bute Park and Blackweir Fields, perfect for relaxing with friends on a sunny day, along with shops, pubs, and restaurants within walking distance.
Address: Blackweir Terrace, Cardiff CF10 3EY
Blackweir Lodge offers 410 self-catered, single-occupancy ensuite rooms, along with a communal study space, common room, and games room for socialising with neighbours.
All rooms feature ensuite bathrooms and access to a communal kitchen where you can cook, relax and hang out with your flatmates.
With secure electronic key entry and round the clock staffing and CCTV to ensure your security and wellbeing.
The Unite Students app also helps you connect with future flatmates, access 24/7 support, request maintenance, and receive important updates.
*During the 2025/26 academic year, building works are planned at this property, including the façade, between 8am and 6pm Monday to Friday.
Noise disruption is expected during working hours, and you may experience reduced light to your room at times.
Unite will communicate notice of these works before they commence and will update students throughout the process.
They will also hold face to face drop-in sessions throughout the year.
Popular with students studying at Llandaff campus.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/partner-halls/north-court-now-students:
North Court is just a 15–20 minute walk from Cardiff Met’s Llandaff campus and is well-connected by bus to other campuses and the city centre.
Supermarkets like Tesco Extra and Aldi, along with local shops and cafés, are all nearby.
Address: North Road, Cardiff, CF14 3BA
Stay safe and supported with a 24/7 on-site Residence Team, security, and CCTV.
Refurbished for 2024/25, North Court offers bright, modern ensuite rooms with 4ft double beds and plenty of storage.
Shared kitchen-lounge areas provide space to relax and socialise.
You'll also enjoy welcoming communal spaces and a packed calendar of social events.
Ideal for those studying at our Llandaff campus at the School of Management, School of Art & Design, and School of Sport & Health Sciences.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/partner-halls/the-bakery-unite-students:
Situated in the heart of Cardiff near the River Taff, The Bakery is just a 10 minute walk from Cardiff Central Station and the city centre.
Ideal for those who enjoy Cardiff’s live music, museums, and culture, with easy bus links to both Llandaff and Cyncoed campuses.
Address: Pendyris Street, Cardiff CF11 6YY
The Bakery offers single ensuite rooms with ample storage and access to shared, fully equipped kitchens.
On the ground floor, a communal area with comfortable seating provides a great space to socialise.
The building features secure entry, 24/7 staffing, and CCTV for your safety and wellbeing.
The Unite Students app lets you connect with future flatmates, request maintenance, access support, and stay updated on important notifications.
Ideal for Cardiff Met students studying at our Cyncoed and Llandaff campuses.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/partner-halls/cambrian-point-unite-students:
Address: Maindy Road, Cardiff CF24 4HJ
Cambrian Point offers self-catered ensuite rooms in shared flats with communal kitchens and living spaces.
Enjoy a friendly student community with indoor communal areas and an outdoor social space for relaxing with friends.
Cambrian point has secure entry, 24/7 support and a dedicated on-site service team.
A popular choice for students based at our Llandaff campus.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/partner-halls/t-pont-haearn-unite-students:
Tŷ Pont Haearn (TPH) is located in Cardiff city centre, surrounded by shops, restaurants, bars, and live music venues.
It's just a 10 minute walk to bus stops for the 52 bus to Cyncoed campus and the 25 bus to Llandaff campus, making it ideal no matter where you study.
Address: Pellet Street, Cardiff, CF10 4FS
Tŷ Pont Haearn offers self-catered single ensuite rooms in flats with shared kitchens.
Located in the city centre, it’s a great community for Cardiff Met students.
Enjoy study and communal spaces, including a PlayStation area to socialise, study, and relax.
The building features secure access, 24/7 support, and CCTV for safety and security.
Popular with students studying at both our Cyncoed and Llandaff campuses.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/partner-halls/arofan-house-yugo:
Arofan House is close to Cardiff city centre, just off City Road—an area known for its vibrant, multicultural atmosphere and diverse restaurants.
Nearby Roath offers a student-friendly mix of green space and urban living, with Roath Park just a short walk away.
The 52 bus to Cyncoed campus is easily accessible and takes just 13 minutes, or a 15 minute cycle.
Address: Vere Street, Cardiff, CF24 3DS
Arofan House features modern self-contained ensuite rooms with ample storage.
Flats share a fully equipped communal kitchen/diner.
Residents have access to social spaces including a cinema room, games room, and TV lounge, along with regular events to meet and connect with others.
Outside, enjoy a secure communal courtyard and bike storage.
A popular choice for students studying at our Cyncoed campus.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/accommodation/halls-of-residence/partner-halls/clodien-house-unite-students:
Clodien House is currently available for students starting university in September 2025 only.
Please see other partner halls for options if you’re joining in 2026.
Address : Clodien Avenue, Cardiff CF14 3NS
Clodien House offers comfortable single-occupancy ensuite rooms, each within a shared flat featuring a fully equipped communal kitchen – perfect for cooking, relaxing, and spending time with your flatmates.
Challenge your friends in the dedicated PlayStation area or unwind in the outdoor courtyard on sunny days.
Your safety and wellbeing are a top priority, with secure electronic key entry, 24/7 staff presence, and CCTV at the property.
Stay connected and in control with the Unite Students app, where you can meet future flatmates, request maintenance, access round-the-clock support, and receive important updates.
Ideally located for those studying at Cyncoed campus.
98 rooms are exclusively reserved for Cardiff Met Students.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/rhentu-ystafell-landlord:
Mae'r Gwasanaeth Llety yn ymdrechu i helpu myfyrwyr i bontio o'r cartref i'r brifysgol mor llyfn â phosibl, felly, yn ogystal â dyrannu lleoedd i fyfyrwyr mewn Neuaddau, mae'r gwasanaeth hefyd yn helpu myfyrwyr i ddod o hyd i lety addas oddi ar y campws.
Mae gan Brifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd restr helaeth o dai preifat sydd ar gael i fyfyrwyr eu rhentu drwy gydol y flwyddyn academaidd.
Mae llawer o'r landlordiaid ar ein Rhestr Llety wedi gweithio'n agos gyda'r Brifysgol ers blynyddoedd lawer a byddant i gyd wedi'u hachredu drwy Achredu Landlordiaid Cymru.
Byddant hefyd wedi rhoi pob ardystiad deddfwriaethol i'r Brifysgol.
Cofiwch fod yn rhaid i chi dalu biliau cyfleustodau mewn eiddo landlord ac mae'r rhain yn debygol o gynyddu'n sylweddol yn ystod y flwyddyn.
Er mai cyfrifoldeb y myfyriwr yw gwneud trefniadau boddhaol, gall y Swyddfa Llety sydd wedi'i lleoli ar Gampws Cyncoed helpu gyda phob agwedd ar gyngor ar dai gan gynnwys gwirio'r cytundeb tenantiaeth cyn llofnodi.
Gall myfyrwyr Met Caerdydd gael mynediad i'r Rhestr Landlordiaid drwy fewngofnodi yma »
Myfyrwyr nad ydynt wedi cofrestru eto ac sy'n dymuno gweld y rhestr, cysylltwch â'r Gwasanaeth Llety yn uniongyrchol am gopi.
Cadwch lygad ar ein cyfrif Facebook am ragor o wybodaeth a diweddariadau aml.
Mae Llety Caerdydd yn wefan un stop ar gyfer yr holl anghenion tai a byw myfyrwyr, a'i nod yw eich cefnogi gyda gwybodaeth a chyngor am eich amser a dreulir yng Nghaerdydd.
P'un a ydych yn symud o Neuaddau i dŷ, yn byw mewn llety rhent preifat, neu'r gymuned rydych yn byw ac yn symud iddi, ei nod yw atal dryswch ynghylch byw ac astudio yng Nghaerdydd.
Treuliwch ychydig funudau yn edrych drwy'r pecyn 'Byw yng Nghaerdydd' neu wefan Llety Caerdydd, sy'n cynnwys gwybodaeth ac awgrymiadau ymarferol ar:
Bydd llawer o fyfyrwyr yn dychwelyd am yr 2il neu'r drydedd flwyddyn astudio ac yn wynebu'r posibilrwydd o ansicrwydd gyda'u contractau llety oherwydd COVID-19.
Lle mae dyddiadau dechrau'r Brifysgol yn amrywio neu'n cael eu gohirio, rydym wedi nodi rhywfaint o wybodaeth isod er mwyn i chi allu cael dealltwriaeth gliriach o'ch contract llety.
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch â'r Gwasanaeth Llety ar 029 2041 6188, e-bost accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk , neu cliciwch ar y sgwrs fyw.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/costau-llety:
Mae’r ffioedd yn amrywio o flwyddyn i flwyddyn ac o gampws i gampws yn dibynnu ar y math o ystafell a dyrennir i chi.
Fodd bynnag, mae holl gontractau Met Caerdydd yn cwmpasu cyfnod o 40 wythnos (sy’n cyd-fynd â’r flwyddyn academaidd), sy’n golygu y gall myfyrwyr aros mewn neuadd a gadael eu heiddo yn eu hystafell yn ystod gwyliau’r Nadolig a’r Pasg.
Rhaid i fyfyrwyr gofrestru am y cyfnod cyfan o 40 wythnos ac ni ellir eu rhyddhau o’u contract oni bai y deuir o hyd i rywun i gymryd eu lle neu eu bod yn gadael Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd.
Mae myfyrwyr yn dal i fod yn atebol am rent tan ddiwedd y tymor y maent yn gadael, ar yr amod eu bod yn hysbysu’r Rheolwr Neuaddau, yn dychwelyd eu cerdyn mynediad / allweddi ac yn derbyn cadarnhad eu bod yn tynnu’n ôl o’r Brifysgol erbyn diwrnod cyntaf y tymor newydd nesaf.
Rhaid i fyfyrwyr sy’n byw yn unrhyw un o’r neuaddau preifat gofrestru am y cyfnod cyfan o 42 wythnos ac ni ellir eu rhyddhau o’u contract oni bai y deuir o hyd i rywun i gymryd eu lle.
Os byddant yn gadael Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yna byddant yn dal yn ostyngedig i delerau eu contract.
Bydd myfyrwyr mewn neuaddau preifat hefyd angen gwarantwr yn y DU cyn y gallant symud i mewn i’w hystafell.
Telir ffioedd neuadd Met Caerdydd mewn tri rhandaliad – Hydref, Gaeaf a Gwanwyn.
Telir ffioedd Unite mewn naill ai dau neu dri rhandaliad.
Gellir cael rhagor o fanylion am ffioedd neuaddau a dulliau talu trwy gysylltu â’r Gwasanaethau Llety.​
Mae gan y Brifysgol ystod o becynnau cymorth ariannol i helpu i wneud talu am eich neuaddau ychydig yn haws.
Gwobr Bywyd Astudio
Yn ogystal, rydym yma hefyd i helpu os ydych chi byth yn cael trafferth talu am eich Neuaddau; gall hyn gynnwys trafod cynlluniau talu amgen neu ddarparu cymorth a chyngor ariannol arall.
Mae croeso i chi gysylltu â’ch Tîm Neuaddau i drafod yr opsiynau sydd ar gael.
Mae rhagor o fanylion am gymorth ariannol gan Wasanaethau Myfyrwyr ac ar Fwrsariaethau ac Ysgoloriaethau i’w gweld yma:
Mae contractau neuaddau preswyl Met Caerdydd yn rhedeg am gyfnod o 40 wythnos.
I ddarganfod mwy am yr ystod o neuaddau preswyl a chostau cysylltiedig ar ein Campysau Plas Gwyn a Chyncoed, dilynwch y dolenni isod:
Mae pob contract neuaddau preswyl preifat yn rhedeg am gyfnod o 42 wythnos.
I ddarganfod mwy am yr ystod o neuaddau preswyl preifat a chostau cysylltiedig, dilynwch y dolenni isod:
Mae taliadau ffioedd Neuaddau Preifat yn ddyledus mewn naill ai 2 neu 3 rhandaliad.
Cliciwch i lawrlwytho Polisi ​Codi Tâl Rhent Neuaddau Preswyl Gorffennaf 2023 .
Mae Fy Ngherdyn Teithio Llywodraeth Cymru ar gael i bob myfyriwr 16-21 oed!
Gallwch wneud cais nawr i gael gostyngiad o hyd at 30% ar bob taith bws ledled Cymru hyd at eich pen-blwydd yn 22 oed!
Ewch i wefan Fy Ngherdyn Teithio i wneud cais cyflym a hawdd.
Mae angen i chi gael cyfeiriad preswylydd yng Nghymru, ond y newyddion da yw bod eich cyfeiriad neuaddau preswyl neu landlord newydd yn cyfrif!
Gwneud cais am Fy Ngherdyn Teithio yma
Arbedwch hyd at 20% ar gost eich bwyd a diod gyda’n cynllun prydau Bwndel Bwyd!
Drwy dalu ymlaen llaw, mae’r pecyn bwyd yn eich galluogi i brynu bwyd a diod am fwy fyth o werth yn unrhyw un o’r saith lleoliad arlwyo ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd.
Cysylltwch â ni i ddarganfod mwy am ein pecynnau bwyd

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/bursaries-and-scholarships/study-life-award:
The Study Life Award aims to help those students from lower income households and who live in areas that have low participation rates for higher education by giving them financial assistance that can be used for a number of day to day costs that can be incurred at university.
These may include, Accommodation, Course Materials, Food, Printing and travel.
The Award is worth up to £950 per year and will be distributed as a mixture of Print Credits, lunch vouchers, and discounted travel opportunities.
Applications for the Study Life Award will be Automatically assessed provided the applicant meets the following Criteria:
Please see the Terms and Conditions section for more information on the above eligibility criteria.
If you are not Eligible for the Study Life Award and are experiencing any financial difficulty then please reach out to our Money Advice team via: moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk
View the full Study Life terms and conditions .
No specific application is required.
As a new student attending Cardiff Metropolitan University, you will be assessed automatically for if you meet the criteria outlined in the Eligibility section above.
If your postcode is not identified by our Participation Neighbourhood Eligibility Checker as a designated low participation area then you will not be eligible for the award.
We are reliant on external agencies in updating this data and this data is subject to change.
Postcodes are categorised currently according to the Welsh Index of Multiple Deprivation (WIMD) 2019, the POLAR4 Young, and Adult HE 2011 coding systems.
Data was provided by the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW) in May 2022.
Currently, only new undergraduate students are automatically assessed for the bursary.
For full terms and conditions of the award please visit our Study Life webpage.
If you are a current Cardiff Met student and are experiencing financial difficulties, please contact our student advisory service on moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk for advice.
Once the bursaries have been allocated and communicated to students (no later than 30 September), you will be contacted by studylife@cardiffmet.ac.uk with the details of your award package.
Payment and provision of the individual award elements can only be activated once you have successfully enrolled onto your full-time degree course, and once your course has started.
If none of the component elements of the Study Life bursary have been activated by the 1 December 2023, the bursary offer will be rescinded and re-allocated to another student.
Your eligibility for the Study Life award will be assessed each academic year against the terms and conditions and you will be emailed each year that you qualify for the scheme.
Payment of the Study Life award in those years after the initial year of attendance is subject to successful progression onto the next numerical year of study (e.g., from 0FT09 to 1FT09) and meeting of the eligibility criteria year on year.
Students from foundation level to fourth year will be considered for the bursary.
A fourth year is permitted for those starting on a foundation year or studying a four-year course.
Students on a course that includes a placement year will not receive the bursary during that placement.
The award does not cover any resits unless there are full mitigating circumstances.
The Study Life award is not allocated without progression, unless there are full mitigating circumstances, so if you must re-sit any year, you will not be entitled to receive the award for that year.
Payment of the Study Life award is subject to successful progression onto the next numerical year of study (e.g., from 0FT09 to 1FT09) and meeting of the eligibility criteria year on year.
Information on mitigating circumstances can be found in the Cardiff Met Academic Handbook.
If you have any queries relating to the Study Life Award, please contact Admissions via: scholarship@cardiffmet.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/student-services/money-advice:
During your time at university, you may need advice on budgeting, money management or student finance.
We offer appointments and drop-in sessions to help you with budgeting and money management, student funding, and resolving any issues with Student Finance.
We can help with:
Students can also access free specialist advice from our partner providers Money Saviour CIC and Citizen’s Advice Cardiff and Vale , including debt advice, benefits, housing, consumer, and family.
We understand that prospective students and parents/guardians will often have questions about what funding is available to students, and how/when to apply.
Our Money Advice team can answer enquiries and provide support with planning a student budget.
If you have any questions, email us: moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Support available:
For specific advice based on your individual circumstances, contact us on moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk or contact your funder directly.
Current students can book an appointment and view drop-in sessions by logging into Methub.
Appointments can also be booked though the i-zone .
Prospective or incoming students can email the money advice team at moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk to book an appointment or ask any questions.
You can also visit the i-zone or contact us at:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/sut-i-wneud-cais:
Ceisiadau ar Agor 1 Ebrill am 9yb
Er mwyn gwneud cais am neuaddau preswyl, bydd angen eich rhif adnabod Myfyriwr Met Caerdydd neu rif adnabod UCAS.
Os ydych yn dymuno derbyn Gwybodaeth Sector Preifat, cysylltwch â'r Gwasanaethau Llety yn uniongyrchol drwy e-bostio accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Mae Ceisiadau Neuaddau yn mynd yn fyw, ar-lein o’r 1 af o Ebrill bob blwyddyn.
Cliciwch yma i wneud eich cais.
Cam 1: Bydd angen eich rhif adnabod Myfyrwyr Met Caerdydd neu rif adnabod UCAS arnoch i gofrestru eich diddordeb.
Cam 2: Ar ôl i chi gofrestru, byddwch yn derbyn e-bost gyda'ch cyfrinair unigryw a fydd yn eich galluogi i wneud cais i'ch neuadd breswyl.
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn ychwanegu ein e-bost accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk a accomoffers@cardiffmet.ac.uk fel ‘anfonwr diogel’.
Bydd hyn yn atal e-byst sy'n mynd i'ch ffolder ‘Jynk’.
Mae hyn yn arbennig o bwysig os ydych chi'n defnyddio cyfeiriad Gmail.
Rydym yn argymell nad ydych yn defnyddio cyfeiriad e-bost Gmail.
Defnyddiwch gyfeiriad e-bost personol, nid un ysgol oherwydd mae’n bosib nad fyddwch yn gallu cael mynediad ato ar ôl i chi adael.
Cam 3: Mynediad i'ch cais gyda'ch cyfrinair, cwblhewch yr adrannau perthnasol a chyflwynwch.
Ar ôl i chi gwblhau eich cais ar-lein, bydd yn cael ei anfon yn awtomatig i'r Swyddfa Llety.
Byddwch yn derbyn e-bost cydnabyddiaeth y dylech ei gadw gan ei fod yn brawf o'ch cais.
Bydd yr e-bost hefyd yn manylu yr hyn sy’n digwydd nesaf gyda’ch cais.
Os nad ydych wedi derbyn e-bost cydnabyddiaeth o fewn 2 ddiwrnod, cysylltwch â'r Swyddfa Llety yn uniongyrchol drwy e-bostio accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Rhoddir blaenoriaeth ar gyfer ystafell mewn neuaddau preswyl i fyfyrwyr blwyddyn gyntaf.
Wrth ddyrannu ystafelloedd, rydym yn ystyried y dyddiad y derbyniwyd y cais ar-lein am neuaddau preswyl, argaeledd llety a'r meini prawf cymhwysedd isod.
Bydd siaradwyr Cymraeg yn gallu rhoi gwybod i ni os yw'n well ganddynt fyw gyda chyd-siaradwyr Cymraeg.
Yn dibynnu ar y galw, byddwn yn ymdrechu i fodloni'r dewis hwnnw.
Byddwn yn gwarantu lle i chi mewn llety a gymeradwyir gan y Brifysgol os ydych yn gwneud cais i fod yn fyfyriwr llawn amser ym Met Caerdydd am y tro cyntaf.
Mae rhaid i chi fodloni’r meini prawf canlynol ar gyfer cael llety gwarantedig:
Er ein bod yn anelu at fodloni eich dewisiadau, ni allwn eu gwarantu.
Mae galw uwch am rai lleoliadau a mathau o ystafelloedd nag eraill, felly rydym yn argymell eich bod yn ymgyfarwyddo â'r holl opsiynau sydd ar gael.
Yn anffodus, oherwydd y nifer cyfyngedig o neuaddau preswyl sydd ar gael, ni allwn dderbyn ceisiadau gan fyfyrwyr sy'n dychwelyd (gan gynnwys y rhai sydd wedi cwblhau blwyddyn sylfaen yn flaenorol) oni bai bod amgylchiadau eithriadol.
Dylai myfyrwyr Ôl-raddedig fod yn ymwybodol bod myfyrwyr blwyddyn gyntaf yn byw mewn neuaddau yn bennaf, ac mae’n bosib na fydd neuaddau preswyl yn ffafriol i lwyth gwaith Ôl-raddedig.
Nid oes gennym neuaddau ôl-raddedig pwrpasol.
Bydd ymgeiswyr sydd â chynigion Diamod sydd wedi gwneud cais cyn 31ain Mai yn clywed cyn diwedd mis Gorffennaf ynglŷn â'u cynnig.
Bydd ymgeiswyr sy'n dal cynigion Amodol yn clywed yn dilyn y canlyniadau Safon Uwch, ar yr amod eich bod yn dod yn gynnig Diamod ar gyfer Met Caerdydd.
Ni allwn gynnig llety i chi nes i chi ddod yn gynnig Diamod ar system UCAS ar gyfer cwrs Met Caerdydd.
​​​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/sut-rydyn-nin-dyrannu-ystafelloedd:
Ni fyddwn yn gallu dyrannu lle mewn neuadd breswyl i unrhyw fyfyriwr heb inni dderbyn Ffurflen 'Cais Neuaddau' ar-lein wedi'i chwblhau.
Rhoddir blaenoriaeth ar gyfer llety neuadd i fyfyrwyr israddedig blwyddyn gyntaf.
Dyrennir ystafelloedd mewn neuaddau yn nhrefn dyddiad.
Sylwch y bydd pob cynnig yn cael ei wneud trwy e-bost.
Rhaid i chi sicrhau bod gennym eich cyfeiriad e-bost cyfredol i'n galluogi i brosesu'ch cais.
Bydd siaradwyr Cymraeg yn gallu ein hysbysu os yw'n well ganddyn nhw fyw gyda chyd-siaradwyr Cymraeg.
Yn dibynnu ar y galw, byddwn yn ceisio cwrdd â'r dewis hwnnw.
Byddwch yn ymwybodol mai dim ond mewn neuaddau sydd wedi'u dynodi ar gyfer eu campws astudio y cynigir llety i fyfyrwyr.
Mae cam cyntaf y dyraniadau yn cychwyn ganol mis Gorffennaf - mae hyn ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n gwneud cais cyn 31 Mai ac yn dal cynigion diamod.
Bydd myfyrwyr diamod sy'n gwneud cais ar ôl 31 Mai yn cael eu rhoi yn ail gam y dyraniadau.
Mae ail gam y dyraniadau yn cychwyn ar ôl diwrnod y canlyniadau Safon Uwch ym mis Awst ac yn parhau hyd at ddechrau'r tymor.
Ni allwn ond gwneud cynigion i fyfyrwyr sydd wedi derbyn cynnig diamod o le academaidd ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd.
Polisi Dyraniadau Neuaddau Preswyl 2025

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/neuaddau-arlwyo:
Mae opsiynau neuaddau wedi'i gynnig ar ein Campws Cyncoed yn unig.
Mae llety arlwyo yn cynnwys brecwast a swper 7 diwrnod yr wythnos yn ystod y tymor!
Mae llawer o fyfyrwyr yn gweld yr opsiwn arlwyo yn hynod gyfleus, gyda dau bryd pwysicaf y diwrnod yn cael eu paratoi ar eich cyfer yn ein bwyty K1 ar gampws, sydd ond yn daith gerdded fer o'r neuaddau preswyl.
Opsiynau enghreifftiol (bwydlenni yn amodol ar argaeledd a newid trwy gydol y flwyddyn)
Brecwast
Dewis o sudd ffrwythau ffres, te neu goffi gyda naill ai brecwast cyfandirol neu unrhyw bump eitem o'n bwydlen brecwast poeth.
Cinio
Dewiswch o'n cinio dau cwrs gyda dewis o dri prif cwrs sy'n cynnwys opsiwn llysieuwr a fegan gyda dewis o llysiau a thatws ffres tymhorol.
Daw eich pryd gyda dewis o de, coffi, diod meddal neu ddŵr.
Gallwn hefyd ddarparu ar gyfer dietau arbennig.
Cysylltwch â'n Tîm Llety am sgwrs bersonol o flaen llaw, neu drafodwch gyda'n tîm arlwyo pan fyddwch yn cyrraedd.
Byddwn yn hapus i edrych ar yr hyn y gellir ei wneud o fewn rheswm i gwrdd ag eich anghenion.
Os dewiswch fyw mewn neuaddau arlwyo, bydd eich ystafell a fflat yn dal i roi mynediad i gegin sy'n cynnwys ardal cinio/byrbrydau, hob, microdon, tegell, yn ogystal ag amwynderau cegin safonol.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/llety-i-fyfyrwyr-anabl:
Mae gan Now Students North Court un fflat stiwdio sy’n addas ar gyfer myfyrwyr ag anableddau corfforol.
Mae gan Unite Blackweir Lodge ystafelloedd a fflatiau hygyrch.
Mae rhai unedau eraill hefyd yn addasadwy i’w defnyddio gan rai sydd ag anableddau corfforol.
Argymhellir eich bod yn cysylltu’n gynnar i drafod anghenion unigol; fe’ch cynghorir i gynnwys llythyr eglurhaol wrth ddychwelyd eich ffurflen gais neuadd.
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth am wasanaethau cymorth: Gwasanaeth Anabledd Met Caerdydd

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/student-services/disability-mental-health-and-dyslexia/disability-support:
We provide comprehensive support to disabled students, promoting inclusivity, and ensuring equal opportunities for all.
If you have a disability, long-term medical condition you can access support.
Advice and support is free to access and is available from application to graduation.
Please do not hesitate to contact us.
To get started, complete our Disability, Wellbeing and Counselling form.
Once you have registered, you will receive information about how to book an appointment.
Disability, Wellbeing and Counselling support form
We encourage prospective students to share information on disability at the earliest opportunity.
You can also declare a disability on your UCAS application and also on enrolment.
If you share information on your UCAS form, our team will get in touch with you before you start your course.
Complete our Prospective Student Triage form and we will arrange a meeting with a member of the team for you: Prospective Student Triage Form
All support and advice will be tailored to your specific needs.
Based on evidence and normal ways of working, we can consider, extra time, discussions around alternative assessment and use of technology.
You will need to opt in this support as soon as you arrive at University to ensure this is in place for the next exam period and all subsequent exam periods
Other support might include:
The DSA provides funding for equipment, software, and personal support workers, if appropriate, to help you overcome any specific challenges related to your disability.
Our advisers will help you navigate the application process and ensure that you receive the necessary support to excel academically.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/llety/cysylltu-a-ni:
Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd Campws Cyncoed Tŷ Warwick Heol Cyncoed Caerdydd CF23 6XD Y Deyrnas Unedig
Ffôn : +44 (0)29 2041 6188
E-bost : accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/bywyd-myfyrwyr:
Mae penderfynu ble i astudio yn golygu mwy na dewis y cwrs mwyaf priodol.
Mae angen i chi hefyd ddewis ble rydych chi am fyw neu gael eich lleoli ar gyfer blynyddoedd nesaf eich bywyd.
Boed hynny’n fywyd cymdeithasol, yn weithgareddau allgyrsiol neu’n gymorth i’ch helpu i gyrraedd eich potensial, fe welwch y cyfan ym Met Caerdydd.
Dewch o hyd i gymuned groesawgar, cyfeillgarwch newydd, a lle gwych i brofi bywyd myfyriwr.
O gymdeithasau bywiog a thimau chwaraeon i brofiadau byd-eang, a phopeth sydd gan ein prifddinas i'w gynnig.
Dysgwch fwy am fywyd ym Met Caerdydd gan ein myfyrwyr.
Mae myfyriwr Met Caerdydd Holly yn sgwrsio â myfyrwyr presennol am adael cartref, gwneud ffrindiau, a bywyd campws.
Darganfyddwch sut mae UM yn cefnogi myfyrwyr yn ogystal â'r cymdeithasau a chlybiau sydd ar gael.
O berfformiad chwaraeon i chwaraeon campws, darganfyddwch fwy am opsiynau astudio a chwaraeon ym Met Caerdydd.
Darganfod eich opsiynau ar le i fyw fel myfyriwr Met Caerdydd.
Bydd ein tîm ymroddedig yn eich cefnogi i gyflawni eich potensial academaidd a phroffesiynol.
Gwybodaeth hanfodol ar ffioedd a chyllid, bwrswriaethau ac ysgoloriaethau.
Dinas llawn diwydiant, mannau gwyrdd a dyfrffyrdd golygfaol.
Gydag angerdd ar gyfer chwaraeon, cerddoriaeth, a bywyd nos myfyrwyr ffantastig, mae yna rhyw beth i bawb.
Archwiliwch yr opsiynau siopa amrywiol a bwyd rhyngwladol ffyniannus, neu ewch ar antur ychydig y tu allan i’r ddinas gyda rhai o’r arfordiroedd a mynyddoedd gorau yn y DU ar garreg ein drws.
Mae’r ddinas yn hynod gysylltiedig â chysylltiadau trafnidiaeth gwych ac ystyrir Caerdydd yn gyson fel un o’r dinasoedd myfyrwyr mwyaf fforddiadwy yn y DU.
* Mynegai Byw Myfyrwyr NatWest

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/student-sport:
Cardiff Met Sport, the Students’ Union, and the Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences work in partnership to support the student sport and recreation experience at the University.
Students are encouraged to lead a healthy and active lifestyle while studying at Cardiff Met.
The student Sports & Fitness membership scheme provides access to the excellent facilities and programmes on offer.
Find out more about our Sports & Fitness membership programmes and get access to excellent facilities.
Make the most of your time at Cardiff Met with access to top-class sports facilities.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/bywyd-myfyrwyr/bywyd-yng-nghaerdydd:
Dinas sy’n fwrlwm o ddiwylliant, mannau gwyrdd a dyfrffyrdd hardd.
Mae yma angerdd dros chwaraeon, cerddoriaeth a bywyd nos gwych i fyfyrwyr, ac mae rhywbeth at ddant pawb.
Cewch gyfle i ddewis o’r opsiynau siopa amrywiol a’r sîn fwyd ryngwladol, neu ewch ar antur ychydig y tu allan i’r ddinas gyda llecynnau arfordirol a mynyddig gorau gwledydd Prydain ar garreg ein drws.
Hyd yn oed os ydych chi o Gaerdydd neu os ydych chi’n ystyried dod yma o bell i astudio, mae eich cartref newydd yn barod ac yn aros amdanoch.
O ran dewis ble i astudio, nid dod o hyd i’r cwrs iawn yw popeth – mae hefyd yn ymwneud â dewis y lle y byddwch chi’n treulio blynyddoedd nesaf eich bywyd.
Er bod gan ein dinas enw da yn fyd-eang, mae yna deimlad lleol iddi – ac mae’n un o’r cymunedau mwyaf cyfeillgar y gallech obeithio amdani.
Fe welwch fod poblogaeth brysur o fyfyrwyr wedi’u lleoli’n bennaf yn y Rhath a Cathays, dwy ardal brysur yn llawn caffis, bariau, tafarndai a siopau cynaliadwy annibynnol, y ddau le o fewn pellter cerdded i ganol y ddinas.
Ymunwch â ni am daith gyflym o amgylch lleoliadau hanfodol y ddinas a thrysorau cudd.
Ein Dinas Ni, Eich Cartref Chi.
Caiff Caerdydd ei graddio’n gyson fel un o’r dinasoedd mwyaf fforddiadwy yng ngwledydd Prydain i fyfyrwyr.
Mynegai Byw Myfyrwyr NatWest
Mae Caerdydd yn ymfalchïo yn ei sîn gerddoriaeth wefreiddiol.
Yn gartref i leoliadau indi llai sy’n dathlu talent cartref, fel Clwb Ifor Bach, Jacobs Roof Garden a’r Tramshed, fe welwch fandiau o fri rhyngwladol yn Arena Utilita Caerdydd a rhai o artistiaid mwyaf y byd yn perfformio yn Stadiwm Principality.
Os byddwch yma yn yr haf gallwch wylio llu o artistiaid yn perfformio yn erbyn cefndir hanesyddol castell Caerdydd yn y dewis helaeth o gigs a gynhelir bob haf.
Dewch i weld sioe yn Theatr y Sherman yn Cathays, comedi byw yn The Glee Club ym Mae Caerdydd, neu ffilm yn un o bedair sinema amlbleth Caerdydd, Sinema Everyman a llond llaw o sinemâu dros dro yng Nghastell Caerdydd a lleoliadau awyr agored ledled y ddinas.
Mae adeilad eiconig Canolfan Mileniwm Cymru ym Mae Caerdydd yn lleoliad theatr a chelfyddydau byd-enwog, sy’n ddelfrydol ar gyfer ffans cerddoriaeth, ac yng Nghanolfan Gelfyddydau Chapter yn Nhreganna fe gewch chi sinema, theatr gyfoes, bar a chaffi i gyd mewn un.
Os am fwyd, ewch ar eich union i Farchnad hanesyddol Caerdydd yng nghanol y ddinas.
Yn masnachu ers y 1700au, mae Marchnad Caerdydd bellach yn lleoliad i werthwyr bwyd stryd annibynnol, siopau dillad vintage, bwyd traddodiadol Cymreig (cacennau cri cynnes yn syth o’r planc!) a choffi artisan.
Mae’r ddinas yn cynnig y siopau cadwyn enwog ynghyd â sîn fwyd annibynnol gyda digwyddiadau a gwyliau dros dro rheolaidd ledled y ddinas, fel y Street Food Circus.
Cewch dafarndai traddodiadol, bariau coctel, a bariau cwrw crefft ochr yn ochr â chymysgedd o glybiau nos sydd i gyd yn cynnal nosweithiau wythnosol ar wahanol themâu i fyfyrwyr.
Yn dibynnu ar eich syniad o noson allan, mae gan Gaerdydd hefyd lu o leoliadau adloniant cymdeithasol, fel caffis gemau bwrdd, bariau arcêd retro a bariau gemau cystadleuol.
Mae lleoliadau unigryw fel y DEPOT – gofod annibynnol gyda phrofiadau yn ganolog iddo, a sefydlwyd gan Nick Saunders, un o raddedigion Marchnata Met Caerdydd – yn cynnig canolbwynt ar gyfer bwyd stryd, digwyddiadau byw a’r BINGO LINGO enwog.
Treuliwch eich penwythnosau yng Nghaerdydd yn mwynhau’r awyrgylch gyda llu o wahanol fathau o chwaraeon.
O bêl-droed yn Stadiwm Dinas Caerdydd, criced rhyngwladol yng Ngerddi Sophia, hoci iâ gyda Devils Caerdydd ym Mae Caerdydd ac, wrth gwrs, rygbi rhyngwladol yn Stadiwm Principality, mae gan Gaerdydd gyfoeth o ddigwyddiadau i’ch diddanu.
Ac os ydych chi am fod yng nghanol y dorf, cymerwch ran yn ras flynyddol 10k Caerdydd a Hanner Marathon Caerdydd, gyda marathon llawn dafliad carreg i ffwrdd yng Nghasnewydd.
I’r rhai sy’n chwilio am antur, dringo dan do, rafftio dŵr gwyn, sglefrio iâ neu nofio mewn pwll maint Olympaidd o’r radd flaenaf – maen nhw i gyd yma ar garreg eich drws.
Neu gallwch fwynhau rhai o gyfleoedd syrffio ac arfordira gorau gwledydd Prydain, a beicio, heicio neu farchogaeth ym Mharc Cenedlaethol Bannau Brycheiniog, i gyd o fewn awr i’r ddinas.
Caerdydd yw'r ganolfan berffaith ar gyfer archwilio popeth sydd gan Gymru i'w gynnig.
Rhai lluniau: © Hawlfraint y Goron.
Wedi’i drwyddedu o dan y Drwydded Llywodraeth Agored v3.0.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/cymorth/ffioedd-a-chyllid:
Bydd y tudalennau hyn yn eich tywys drwy'r opsiynau cyllido a'r gefnogaeth ariannol sydd ar gael i helpu i ariannu eich amser yn y Brifysgol.
O Fenthyciadau Ffioedd Dysgu a Benthyciadau Cynhaliaeth, i'r grantiau, bwrsariaethau ac ysgoloriaethau nad oes rhaid eu had-dalu a allai fod ar gael.
Cliciwch ar y dolenni perthnasol isod i ddarganfod mwy, neu gysylltwch â ni gan ddefnyddio’r manylion perthnasol os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiadau.
Ar gyfer Myfyrwyr Israddedig , darganfyddwch fwy am opsiynau Cyllid Myfyrwyr, gan gynnwys ffioedd dysgu, benthyciadau cynhaliaeth, a chymorth penodol i fyfyrwyr Cartref (DU/UE).
Os ydych chi'n ystyried Astudio Ôl-raddedig neu Ran-amser , dewch o hyd i wybodaeth am ffioedd dysgu ac opsiynau ariannu wedi'u teilwra ar gyfer dysgwyr ôl-raddedig, ymchwil, neu ran-amser.
Ar gyfer Myfyrwyr Rhyngwladol , darganfyddwch wybodaeth fanwl am ffioedd dysgu ac ysgoloriaethau sydd ar gael i helpu i gefnogi eich astudiaethau ym Met Caerdydd.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support:
At Cardiff Met, we’re focused on making sure our students have the best chance to fulfil their academic and professional potential.
Our dedicated teams are on hand to provide support throughout your studies, regardless of any challenges you may face.
Explore the links below to find out more about our support services.
All you need to know about tuition fees , bursaries and scholarships and funding available for Undergraduate students or Postgraduate students .
You can also find out about our Fee and Access Plan .
Information for International students can be found here .
Our specialist staff offer impartial and confidential advice and support  on money , wellbeing , disability, dyslexia and specialist learning support ,  to help you along the way while  you fulfil your academic ambitions.
You’ll have access to a range of support designed to enhance your employability skills and improve your future prospects.
Explore the support available when you join Cardiff Met or how to access careers support after you graduate .
Plus we give you the chance to expand your skills through the Centre for Entrepreneurship .
Find useful information and tips to help guide you through making an application to study with us.
From deadlines and processes for Undergraduate students to Teacher Training or Postgraduate and Part-time applicants.
You’ll also find information for Armed Forces Personnel and anyone requiring DBS checks , as well as our policies and Terms & Conditions.
Access the Academic Handbook and learn about sources of support within academic regulations.
Find out about the Complaints process or Appeals , as well as HEAR (Higher Education Achievement Report) how to access Transcripts and Certificates .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/undergraduate-funding:
Undergraduate and PGCE tuition fees for full-time home students for 2025 have been confirmed in line with Welsh Government regulation.
EU applicants who do not have settled status will be charged international fees.
Your fee status will be decided by the University once you apply taking into consideration settled and pre-settled status.
Further information is available on our fee assessment information .
In addition, there is a Guide to Tuition Fees for the current academic year.
For eligibility to Fee and Maintenance Support, please contact the relevant authority (see ‘Where can I find out more information and apply?’).
For a full fee table and details of courses with additional costs please see the related links.
For further information please view the Guide to Tuition Fees .
Going to university is a considerable financial investment, but you should remember that holding a higher qualification such as a degree will improve your job prospects, making it easier to find a fulfilling and well-paid job.
During you time at university you will have two main costs to meet, your tuition fees and living costs .
As a full-time undergraduate student, you may be eligible for a package of financial support made up of:
You can calculate how much you could be entitled to by using one of the following student finance calculators:
Ordinarily no (eligibility determined by Student Finance) – in most circumstances, on application, funding of Loans/Grants are provided to cover tuition fees for the duration of your three or four-year course and these are only repayable once your annual salary exceeds £25,000 *.
If you take a career break or your salary falls below £25,000 , your repayments will stop.
Remember – after 30 years any remaining debt is wiped.
*For students who started university after 2012.
Yes – you can apply for two types of student loans:
Yes – student loans (both tuition fee and maintenance loans) are available for all students who meet the eligibility; visit the relevant website based on your nationality (see calculator links).
Tuition fee loans are available for the full cost of your course, no matter what your personal financial situation.
Maintenance loans differ slightly, in that they are means-tested (dependent on your parents’ salary and/or household income) and given in conjunction with maintenance grants (Welsh students only.
These are non-repayable meaning you will never have to pay them back).
All Welsh students will be eligible for a minimum grant of £1,000 and additional grants will be based on household income.
Students from households living away from home (e.g., in university student accommodation) with an income of up to £18,370 will be entitled to the maximum grant of £8,100 – which doesn’t have to be paid back.
English students are no longer entitled to a grant, but instead an increased maintenance loan to cover the cost of living.
For more information, please visit the relevant website in the ‘Where can I find out more information and apply?’ section below.
If you want to make sure that you receive the first instalment of your loan (and grants) when you start university, you must apply for your financial support as soon as you decide to apply to university, not wait until you are offered a place.
Applications must be renewed each academic year.
If you should decide to leave your course early, you may be required to repay your tuition fee loans:
For information regarding the repayment of maintenance loans, please contact your local student loan authority (Student Finance Wales/England/Northern Ireland/Scotland) .
*If you are funded via Student Finance, we would only charge you up to the maximum fee support available, this may be under the amount of the above percentages.
You won’t be eligible to repay the loan until you graduate and begin earning; £25,000 if an English domiciled, or £27,295 if a SFW student; monthly repayments are 9% of everything you earn above this figure.
Loan repayments are taken from your ‘net’ pay through the Income Tax system.
Therefore, like Income Tax and National Insurance, the money never actually makes it into your bank and if your income ever falls below £25,000/£27,295, you don’t get a job or take a career break, your payments will stop.
Further information can be found here: Repaying your student loan: When you start repaying – GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
For more information on financing your way through university and to apply for the various loans and grants available, take a look at the websites below, depending on where you live:
You can also take a look at the following guide: Cardiff Met Guide to Fee Payments .
You can also contact our Money Advice Team by calling 029 2041 6170 or emailing moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Finally, remember to come and visit us at an undergraduate Open Day , where you and your parents can find out more about Student Finance and ask our staff any questions you may have.
Our Student Services department offers a support service should you have any questions about possible support that may be available to you whilst you study.
For more information, visit their web pages or email moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
The University also offers a range of bursaries and scholarships designed to help students succeed.
For further information please click here .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/postgraduate-funding:
As a postgraduate, research or part-time student, the tuition fees you are charged will depend on the course you choose to study.
Certain programmes will also incur costs in addition to the course fee and this information is detailed within the Additional Course Costs page.
Please click here to download the full list of fees for full-time and part-time programmes.
Please refer to the Guide to Tuition Fees for further information.
There is currently support available through Student Finance for undergraduate part-time study, and more details can be found on their web pages:
For current support available through Student Finance, information can be found on the below web pages:
Please be aware – non-eligibility
You are not eligible for the PG Student Loan if you are transferring your previous credits using Recognised Prior Learning (RPL) or Accredited Prior Learning (APL) credits, or a top-up in relation to your course of study.
(Please refer to our RPL web page for further information on Recognised Prior Learning.)
If you will be in receipt of an NHS bursary for your programme of study you will not be eligible to apply for a loan.
Also, please be aware that if during the application stage or after enrolling your student finance application is found to be ineligible, we are required to inform the SLC and your student loan may be withdrawn.
For further advice, please contact Cardiff Met’s Money Advice Team on moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Government training grants may be available for PGCE Primary and certain PGCE Secondary subject areas.
There is no need to apply for the grants in advance as the application process is administered once you commence the PGCE programme if you are eligible.
Payment is made for Secondary students in January and in July at the end of the PGCE programme, once QTS is achieved.
Payment is made for Primary students in July at the end of the PGCE programme, once QTS is achieved.
For further information please visit: Initial Teacher Education Incentives .
The University also offers a range of doctoral scholarships to help students undertaking research to finance their studies.
With regards to research loans, the PGL for England and Wales will be applicable for those studying a 2-year MPhil (full time) programme, however those studying an MPhil part time or MPhil leading to PhD will not be eligible.
Doctoral loans for PhD students are now also available and further information about these can be found on the Student Finance web pages above.
For more information, please click here or email moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Other useful websites and resources for postgraduate and research students looking for funding opportunities include:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/additional-course-costs:
Additional costs are the mandatory or optional expenses, additional to tuition fees, that need to be paid for by students to fully participate and complete their studies.
This covers such things as equipment, trips, placements and DBS checks.
Each programme has different additional costs involved and these are listed under the links below, depending on what level of study you are joining us for.
Any queries can be directed towards additionalcosts@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/make-a-payment:
Please note, some of these options can take up to three working days to be reflected within the University accounts.
Met Pay - Cardiff Met Student Payment Centre:
Make a Payment
Payment by Credit/Debit Card for Tuition Fees.
User will need to enter Student ID (8 Numeric Values) and Date of Birth to make payment against account.
NB – this will not show any charge, user must input the total payment amount after logging in, payment method will determine what is immediately payable.
Can take up to three working days for payment to be reflected on student account.
Cardiff Metropolitan University has officially partnered with Flywire to accept payments from over 240 countries and territories, in more than 140 currencies.
Millions of students and their parents world-wide trust Flywire to facilitate their education payments.
By making your payment using Flywire you can:
You can see how Flywire works here .
International Bank Transfer by TransferMate:
TransferMate – Cardiff Metropolitan University
Payment by Bank Transfer or alternative payment methods for Tuition, Accommodation or a Penalty Charge.
(Please ensure that all details are completed for us to correctly allocate your payment.)
International students from India, Nigeria and China have the option to pay with EasyTransfer.
Cardiff Metropolitan University has partnered with EasyTransfer as a payment method for international payments.
This quick, safe and secure service allows you to make payments in your local currency easily with low fees and transparent exchange rates.
EasyTransfer’s team of payment specialists will guide you step by step and give you peace of mind that your full payment is delivered to the University.
You can also make a payment in person at the i-Zone at both Llandaff and Cyncoed campus.
You will need to bring your student ID card when making a payment.
Please note we do not accept cash.
Bank transfer payments can be made via the above options in most local currencies.
The University does not make its bank account details available.
Students who wish to make bank transfer payments should do so via the above portals, either for fee invoices already raised or for making advance payments before enrolment.
Bank transfer payments can be made in most local currencies, GB Pounds, US Dollars or Euros, and will be fully tracked through their journey, so students are informed where their funds are.
In most cases bank transfer payments via Flywire/Convera/EasyTransfer are received by us faster than they would have been if transferred directly to a University account.
Bank account details are provided to sponsors via their invoices.
Payment by Credit/Debit Card or PayPal for ‘Shop’ Items including Short Courses, Merchandise, Conferences and Events, MetLife Products e.g., MetRider Bus Passes, Replacement ID Cards, Car Parking Permits, etc.
A payment by Credit/Debit Card or PayPal to load your Student/Staff ID Card with Credit.
Your Print Card can be used at the Cardiff Met Print Studio.
Recently scammers have been reaching out to students to befriend them and tell them there is a way to reduce the cost of university tuition fees.
They promise a discount or a better rate of exchange if you pay them – and claim in return they will pay your fees to Cardiff Met.
The person approaching you might be another student (at Cardiff Met or elsewhere) or could be a friend, ‘cousin’, ‘uncle’ or family acquaintance.
They will offer to arrange a discount for you by paying on your behalf – either asking you to pay your money to someone else or make a payment through a website which may look completely genuine.
Offers like these are usually part of a card scam, where payments are made to a student’s university account using stolen cards.
The person will make the payment towards your fees as agreed, so everything may seem legitimate at first.
However, the payment will either be declined, or it will become invalid - often many days or weeks later once it is realised that the payment card was stolen or cloned.
Occasionally, scammers will attempt to make numerous lower value payments using several different cards until one works.
The result is that you have lost your money and unknowingly become involved in illegal activity.
Your Tuition Fees are still owing to Cardiff Met.
To avoid such fraud, you should only pay your fees directly to Cardiff Met.
You can find details of how to do this here.
If you still have questions please contact the Tuition Fees Team by email at tuitionfees@cardiffmet.ac.uk
You can report the crime to Action Fraud
Further information can be found at;
Cardiff Met Contacts

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/fee-waivers:
Please note the fee waiver scheme has now closed for academic year 2024/25 and is expected to re-open for academic year 2025/26 in the Autumn term.
With the support of the Commission for Tertiary Education and Research (Medr), we are offering a fee waiver scheme (subject to availability) to support part-time undergraduate students who would not otherwise have access to higher education.
Eligible students will have their course fees paid by Medr.
To be eligible for a fee waiver you:
Student or immediate family:
Student:
If the above benefit criteria does not apply to you, funding could still be available if you meet at least one of the following:
Please complete the application form and return it (with supporting evidence if applicable) to tuitionfees@cardiffmet.ac.uk – title the email as 'F W APP' with the Cardiff Met Student ID – e.g., F W APP 20999999.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/fee-and-access-plans:
If you're looking for information on current entry fees, please click here.
​If you need advice on the payment of fees, please email the Tuition Fees team on tuitionfees@cardiffmet.ac.uk ​.
Official HEFCW Approved Fee Plans for Cardiff Metropolitan University can be found on the following links:​
This Plan was approved by HEFCW in July 2024.
Download the 2025/26 - 2026/27 Fee and Access Plan​
A variation to the Plan was approved by HEFCW in April 2025.​
Download the 2025/26 - 2026/27 Fee and Access Plan (Variation)
This Plan was approved by HEFCW in August 2022.
Download the 2023/24 - 2024/25 Fee and Access Plan ​
A variation to the Plan was approved by HEFCW in April 2024.
Download the 2023/24 - 2024/25 Fee and Access Plan (Variation)​
This Plan was approved by HEFCW in July 2021.
Download the 2022/2023 Fee and Access Plan
This Plan was approved by HEFCW in May 2020.
A variation of the plan was approved by HEFCW in July 2021.
Download the 2021/22 Fee and Access Plan
This Plan was approved by HEFCW in September 2019.
A Welsh language version will follow in September, following translation.
Download the 2020/21 Fee and Access Plan / Cynllun Ffioedd a Mynediad 2020/21 (Approved by HEFCW) Download the 2020/21 Fee and Access Plan (Annexe B) (Approved by HEFCW)
This Plan was approved by HEFCW in July 2018.
A variation to Annex Aii was approved by HEFCW on September 12 2019.
This variation was to take account of portfolio changes at existing franchise partners (Table D).
Download the 2019/20 Fee and Access Plan / Cynllun Ffioedd a Mynediad 2019/20 (Approved by HEFCW)
Download the 2019/20 Fee and Access Plan (Annexe Aii) (Approved by HEFCW)
This Plan was approved by HEFCW in July 2017.
Subsequent to this approval the text of the Plan has been amended to provide greater clarity following the Cabinet Secretary's announcement that the maximum fee level in Wales would remain at £9k.
This amended plan was approved by HEFCW in December 2017.
A variation to Annex Aii was approved by HEFCW on August 9 2018.
This variation was to take account of a new programme at an existing franchise partner, as well as a change of location for two franchised programmes.
Download the 2018/19 Fee and Access Plan ​ / Cynllun Ffioedd a Mynediad 2018/19 ​(Approved by HEFCW) ​ ​ Download the 2018/19 Fee and Access Plan (Annexe Aii) ​(Approved by HEFCW)
Approved by HEFCW in July 2016
Download the 2017/18 Fee and Access Plan ​ ​(Approved by HEFCW)

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/withdrawal-and-fees:
If you are thinking about withdrawing from your course there are some things you will need to consider.
We suggest you book an appointment with a Student Retention Officer by completing this form to tell us you are thinking of leaving so you can receive appropriate support and guidance.
You may be liable for some or all of your tuition fees, depending on when you withdraw.
This amount will also depend on how your tuition fees are paid.
Information for the 2024-25 academic year is detailed below:
If you are starting the academic year at a 'non-traditional' point (i.e., January or April) or are doing a 'short course', please contact the Tuition Fees Team (details below) to clarify the periods.
Fee liability will be calculated on a pro-rata basis, depending on number of months in attendance.
You can contact our Tuition Fees Team at tuitionfees@cardiffmet.ac.uk if you have any further queries around how withdrawing from University will affect your tuition fee charges.
You can contact our Money Advice Team at moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk or on 029 2041 6170 to discuss the implications of withdrawing from University on your student finance.
You may also wish to speak to our Accommodation Team on 029 2041 6188 or at accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk to discuss any tenancy related queries.
If you are an academic member of staff you can refer a student who has expressed a wish to withdraw to the Student Retention Team in Student Services for support using the Retention Referral Form for Academic Staff .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/frequently-asked-questions:
This process is completed by our Academic Registry.
Please email enrolment@cardiffmet.ac.uk for assistance.
We will receive confirmation of your funding directly from Student Finance.
We would recommend you apply with enough time that the application has been accepted before the start of term.
Please inform our Exchequer department at tuitionfees@cardiffmet.ac.uk that your student finance is late and please keep us informed of any updates you receive from Student Finance.
We would encourage you to contact Student Finance regularly.
If funding is not provided by the start of Term 2, you may be required to begin paying your fees in the interim.
Once we receive funding from student finance, a refund will be issued of any overpayments that may be on your account.
If you wish to withdraw from your course, your withdrawal date will determine how much of your tuition fee is payable.
More information, including a breakdown of dates, can be found here: Withdrawal and Fees .
Please provide a sponsor letter on letterheaded paper/company email address – this should be uploaded during your online enrolment or emailed to enrolment@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
The sponsor letter will need to confirm the following information:
Once we have received this, we can update your student record and bill your sponsor directly.
You will need to do this for each year of study.
The NHS will inform us directly of which students are funded.
If you receive a tuition fee invoice please contact the NHS Bursary team to check if there is an issue with your funding.
Yes - you can make payment in full or set up instalments (Recurring Card Payments) via the Payment Portal .
There are instalment plans available for both Home and International students.
The instalment options are:
Excluding the International Foundation Course at ELTC who require full course payment, all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes require a 50% deposit of your total course fee, from September 2023 intake onwards.
For example, if your course fee after scholarship is £16,000, you will be required to make £8,000 deposit by the deadline as stated below and on the offer letter.
If opting to pay your tuition fees by instalments, you can pay via a Recurring Card Payment (RCP) agreement.
Link available on Make a Payment (top option) and also via the link to your finance account on MetCentral.
To log in, enter your active directory credentials in the format st12345678@outlook.cardiffmet.ac.uk plus password.
Once logged in, you can set up and view your instalments.
You can also nominate a parent to access your account and make payments on your behalf.
All fees for 2024/25 can be found here: 2024/2025 Fee Table .
Information on Scholarships that are available to Home students can be found here: Bursaries & Scholarships .
Information on Scholarships that are available to International students can be found here: Applying to Cardiff Met Scholarships .
All information regarding the Alumni Discount can be found here: Alumni Discount .
If you have any further questions or wish to confirm whether you are eligible, please contact scholarship@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/contact-us:
If you would like further information, advice or have any specific enquiries about student finance and tuition fees, please contact the relevant team below.
Contact for advice on how and when to pay your tuition fees or guidance on what rate may apply to your studies:
If you have difficulties paying your fees or have VISA queries, please contact the Global Engagement Welfare Team:
If you are in financial difficulties, please contact the Money Advice team:
Where fees are paid by a sponsor or you are in receipt of an NHS bursary send your supporting documentation to the Enrolment Office.
If Student Finance are waiting for confirmation of attendance, please contact the Academic Registry:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/cymorth/gwasanaethau-myfyrwyr:
Rydym yn darparu cymorth ac arweiniad i fyfyrwyr, gan gynnwys cwnsela ac iechyd meddwl, cymorth anabledd, a rheoli arian.
Mae'r gwasanaethau hyn yn cynnwys cwnsela, cyngor ariannol, a chymorth gydag anabledd a dyslecsia.
Rydym yn cefnogi myfyrwyr gydag ystod o anableddau, gan gynnwys anawsterau dysgu penodol.
Rydym hefyd yn cynnig cymorth iechyd meddwl a lles cyfrinachol am ddim.
Cwblhewch ein ffurflen cymorth Anabledd, Lles a Chwnsela i gychwyn arni.
Os ydych chi'n poeni am ffrind neu gyd-fyfyriwr, neu'n aelod o staff sy'n pryderu am fyfyriwr, gallwch wneud atgyfeiriad i'r gwasanaeth trwy ein ffurflen Achos Pryder .
Ewch i'r parth-g i drefnu apwyntiadau a chael help gydag ymholiadau anacademaidd.
Mae staff cyfeillgar o’r tîm Cymorth i Fyfyrwyr a Chyflogadwyedd ar gael ar gampysau Cyncoed a Llandaf i ateb cwestiynau am wasanaethau myfyrwyr, cymorth i drefnu apwyntiadau, cynorthwyo gyda thaliadau ffioedd dysgu, dilysu cymwysterau, a mwy.
Am ragor o wybodaeth, ewch i'n tudalen parth-g .
Gall myfyrwyr presennol drefnu apwyntiadau i gael mynediad at ystod o wasanaethau trwy fewngofnodi i MetHub .
Os oes angen cymorth arnoch gyda'r broses archebu, mae tîm parth-g yn barod i helpu.
Rydym yn cynnig pecyn cymorth llesiant rhyngweithiol ar-lein o’r enw “Being Well Living Well,” sydd ar gael trwy Moodle.
Mae'r adnodd hwn wedi'i gynllunio i helpu myfyrwyr i gynnal eu hiechyd meddwl a'u lles.
Archwiliwch y pecyn cymorth ar Moodle .
Gall myfyrwyr sy'n profi anawsterau ariannol fod yn gymwys i gael cymorth gan y Brifysgol.
I gychwyn y broses, llenwch y Ffurflen Gais Apwyntiad Cymorth Ariannol .
Ar gyfer ymholiadau cyffredinol, gallwch gysylltu â ni drwy e-bost at studentservices@cardiffmet.ac.uk neu dros y ffôn ar 029 2041 6170.
Mae ein swyddfeydd ar gampysau Llandaf a Chyncoed.
I gael gwybodaeth gyswllt fanwl, ewch i'r dudalen Cysylltu â Ni .
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i sicrhau bod gan bob myfyriwr fynediad at y cymorth a’r adnoddau sydd eu hangen arnynt i lwyddo’n academaidd ac yn bersonol.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/student-services/i-zone:
We are part of the Student Services and Employability team.
You can find the i-zone helpdesk next to the main reception on Llandaff campus, and behind the library on Cyncoed campus.
We can help you:
If we can’t directly help with your query, we can connect you with the right department.
Please note the Cyncoed i-zone will be closed between Fri 27 th June – Mon 1 st September.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/student-services/disability-mental-health-and-dyslexia:
We support students who experience a range of disabilities including specific learning difficulties, mental health conditions, and medical conditions.
We also offer services to help students manage a short term or isolated incident of stress.
The Well Met App is your personal guide to mental health and wellbeing support.
Key features:
Available 24/7, it offers tailored support and trusted resources - all in one place.
Current students - learn more about the Well Met App .
'Being Well Living Well' is an interactive, online module.
It can help you develop strategies to maintain your mental health, wellbeing and finances.
Visit Being Well Living Well on Moodle
We offer free, confidential mental health and wellbeing support.
Mental Health and Wellbeing
Supporting students who are experiencing difficulties with attendance/engagement.
Information for staff
Apply for support - current students
Disability Support
We understand that your journey through university may have unique challenges, and we are here to provide the support and resources you need to thrive.
Autism Support
We provide advice and support to students with specific learning difficulties (SpLDs), such as Dyslexia, Dyspraxia and ADHD.
Dyslexia, ADHD and SpLD Support
Key information on the steps you need to take to have access to care and treatment should or when the need arises.
Your Physical Health

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/student-services/chaplaincy:
The Chaplaincy Service is a unique and vibrant place in Cardiff Metropolitan University.
It has a unity which honors those of all faiths and those of none and is a welcoming, confidential and safe environment available to all staff and students.
The Chaplaincy provides a number of services including:
Losing a loved one can be devastating and the grief that follows can feel unbearable at times.
We are here to support you through your grieving.
We have multi-faith prayer rooms on both campuses.
The multi-faith prayer room is T0.07 with adjacent ablution rooms.
The multi-faith prayer room is B0090.
We can provide information about local faith communities and places of worship.​
We provide support through the difficult times and love to celebrate your successes too.
We are always a listening ear for when you need to talk.
Our doors are always open!
To book an appointment or for more information contact Ameira Bahadur-Kutkut:
Email: ABahadur-Kutkut@cardiffmet.ac.uk​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/student-services/contact-us:
Visit the i-zone to resolve a range of non-academic queries.
You can also book face to face appointments though the i-zone.
i-zone staff can also show you how to book appointments online if you are unsure how to do this.
Please note the Cyncoed i-zone will be closed between Fri 27th June – Mon 1st September.
You can login to MetHub to ask a question .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/myfyrwyr-newydd:
Llongyfarchiadau unwaith eto ar ennill eich lle ym Met Caerdydd - ni allwn aros i gwrdd â chi ym mis Medi.
Yma byddwch yn darganfod popeth sydd angen i chi ei wybod cyn i chi gychwyn.
Dysgwch sut i gofrestru gyda'r awgrymiadau gorau ac atebion i'r ymholiadau mwyaf cyffredin.
Bydd angen eich CerdynMet arnoch i gael mynediad i gyfleusterau a gwasanaethau, felly gwnewch yn siwr eich bod yn lanlwytho eich llun.
Dewch o hyd i atebion i gwestiynau cyffredin cyn i chi gyrraedd ac yn ystod eich wythnosau cyntaf ym Met Caerdydd.
Beth i ddod gyda chi, ble i fynd a sut y byddwn yn eich cefnogi pan gyrhaeddwch eich cartref newydd.
Darganfyddwch y digwyddiadau, y gweithgareddau a'r digwyddiadau cymdeithasol allweddol sy'n digwydd yn ystod eich wythnosau cyntaf.
Yn dechrau Medi 22, byddwch yn mynychu digwyddiadau a gweithgareddau i ddod i adnabod y Brifysgol a'ch cyd-fyfyrwyr.
Mae gennym nifer o ddigwyddiadau croeso, felly dysgwch fwy am ba rhai sy'n perthnasol i chi.
Sut i ddod o hyd i'ch ffordd o gwmpas Caerdydd, gan gynnwys llwybrau bysiau i'r campws.
Cyngor defnyddiol ar ymgartrefu, gofalu amdanoch chi'ch hun, a gweinyddu bywyd.
Gosodwch eich e-bost, cyrchwch WiFi ac archwiliwch y dechnoleg y bydd ei hangen arnoch ar gyfer astudio a chefnogaeth.
Dewch o hyd i wybodaeth am gyrchu cefnogaeth lles, anabledd, ariannol ac academaidd i'ch help chi lwyddo.
Cwblhewch eich ymrestru ar-lein a dewch o hyd i atebion i gwestiynau cyffredin am astudio a byw yng Nghaerdydd.
Dyddiadau a gwybodaeth allweddol ynglyn ag ymuno, sefydliad, ac ein Academi Ddoethurol.
Os oes gennych chi gwestiynau mae angen eu hateb sydd heb eu hateb ar y tudalennau hyn, ebostiwch y Tîm Derbyniadau neu ffoniwch: +44 (0)29 2041 6010

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/enrolment:
You will be sent an email informing you that you are ready to enrol online when your place is confirmed.
It’s important you enrol as soon you can after receiving this e-mail.
Some of the links included in this section will take you to our student intranet – MetCentral – and other pages which you will only be able to access after you have enrolled.
Once you have completed your enrolment (don’t worry, it will not take long), you will receive all your login information and your Cardiff Met journey will really begin!
If you have any queries relating to online enrolment, please use the Enrolment Help link .
Click here to complete your enrolment online
International student enrolment
Enrolment Frequently Asked Questions
The enrolment process is what confirms you as an official student.
As a new Home (UK) student, when your place is confirmed and you have met all the other non-academic conditions of your offer such as DBS if applicable to your course, you will be sent an email with instructions of how to enrol to the personal email address given on your current application, with a link to our online enrolment facility.
You will be given your student account details within this email, to use to log in and complete your enrolment.
If you have applied for one of our programmes (usually Part-time, Postgraduate or Research), starting January, April or July, you will receive this email nearer to your particular start date.
Please note: You will not be able to enrol and should not attempt to do so until you have received your email from Admissions.
For guidance on the enrolment process and a walk through guide as a new student, please refer to our guide .
Please ensure that you continue to the end of all the screens within the enrolment system to fully complete the process.
On the final page of the process, please click the Continue button in the bottom right of the screen to confirm your enrolled status.
This will take you through to our 'After you have Enrolled page' where you will find useful information and what to expect next.
If you have studied with Cardiff Met previously, and already have a Cardiff Met student ID and student account, you will need to use your previous login details.
If you are a previous Cardiff Met student, and already have a student account you may need to reset your password, please click here .
If you have not received the enrolment email, there could be a number of reasons for this:
If you fall into any of the above, please contact Admissions who can advise you further.
You can click on this enrolment tracker to see your status, with the first ‘traffic light’ turning green when you are ready to enrol.
View the Terms & Conditions of your enrolment
For any queries, please contact:
Below is a list of common queries that students have asked us while going through the enrolment process.
If you can’t find the answer to your query below or you have any other questions, please use the Enrolment Help Link.
Top Tips:
You will receive an email with details on how to enrol online when you have met all of your conditions of offer and your application has been updated.
If you have received an email notification with your username and password, you can use the following link to enrol: Click here to complete your enrolment online .
If you have any queries about proving your immigration status or accessing your share code before you enrol, please contact our Immigration Compliance Team on CAS Shield where you will receive a prompt response.
Alternatively, you can email immigrationregs@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call in to the Global Lounge on the Llandaff Campus and arrange to meet a member of staff who will be happy to help.
If you experience difficulties or have enquiries about online enrolment, please contact enrolment@cardiffmet.ac.uk
It would be useful if you had the following items with you during your induction week:
*If you don’t upload your sponsor letter as part of your online enrolment, please scan and email a copy to enrolment@cardiffmet.ac.uk or drop a copy to one of our i-zones at Llandaff or Cyncoed.
Within the term time address section, if you do not know this address at the point of enrolment you can enter your parental/permanent address as your term time address.
Once you know the address you will be staying at during your study period you can email Enrolment and we will update this for you.
Alternatively, you can update your address through your student portal.
You will, however, be required to enter the type of accommodation you will be living in, e.g., Cardiff Met Halls of Residence (Institution maintained property), private halls, rented accommodation etc., so select the appropriate ’type’ from the drop-down list.
If you wish to suspend or withdraw from your studies speak to your Programme Director as soon as possible.
If, after discussing your options with your Programme Director, you still decide to suspend or withdraw (an internal transfer may be a more favourable option), then your Programme Director will complete the relevant form and submit this to the MIS Unit who will process the action and forward this onto the Enrolment Team who will inform Student Finance, where applicable.
Please be aware that if you are receiving student finance then your maintenance and tuition fees are likely to be affected.
It is very important that you inform us of your decision as Cardiff Met need to inform Student Finance of your change of circumstances.
If you wish to change your module please contact your School or the Programme Director.
During the enrolment process, applicants and current students are asked to disclose any new or previously undisclosed convictions that might affect their studies at the University.
Please refer to the information on our webpages here .
Visit the Enrolment Help Link , quoting your Customer Reference Number (CRN) assigned to you by Student Finance along with a description of the issue or visit the i-zone or Student Services.
If your Student Finance status online is showing as Pending for a delayed period, please also let us know as we may be able to resolve this for you.
There could be a number of reasons for this, please contact Admissions who will look into this for you.
Once you have fully completed your online enrolment, you should be able to access these services within 24 hours.
Eligibility for student finance for a repeat year of study is dependent on your previous study history.
In relation to tuition fee support, Student Finance provides funding for the duration of a course of study, and one additional year under certain circumstances.
For example, if your course has a duration of 3 years, you may be entitled to 4 years of funding in total (3 + 1 = 4), if you need to repeat one year of your course, and you haven’t previously repeated a year or studied on a Higher Education course prior to this one.
When applying for student finance your entitlement for funding will consider if you have undertaken a previous course at HE level, and will be reduced to reflect this.
Applicants and students should always check with Student Finance concerning your entitlement to funding.
For further advice and guidance you can email: moneyadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk or arrange an appointment via the appointment request form (under Quick Links on your student portal) to discuss your funding.
Further information is also available via the webpage Student Welfare and Finance Advice .
Students experiencing financial difficulties may be eligible for assistance from the university.
If you need reminding of your username, please contact the IT Helpdesk on 029 2041 7000; or if you just need to reset your password please click here .
Undergraduate students need to apply for student finance for each year of your course and should apply for student finance ASAP once applications open.
Once your student finance application has been approved you should receive a payment schedule for any tuition fees and/or maintenance you have applied for from Student Finance themselves.
As long as you’ve applied prior to the deadline and your application has been fully approved, then your first maintenance payments should be paid in the 1st week of term.
Subsequent payments are usually based around the dates on your Student Finance Notification.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-metcard:
Once your place is confirmed and you have completed your enrolment online, you will be able to upload a photo for your student MetCard.
Your card will give you access to campus facilities, Halls accommodation (if you are a residential student), Library and IT services, and self-service printing and copying.
You’ll also need your MetCard if you join a University gym (which is free for all students).
Uploading your photo will ensure that your MetCard is ready to be printed when you arrive on campus – either at our Get Cardiff Met Ready event on September 5 (more information will follow by e-mail) or in Welcome Week.
If you can’t make Get Cardiff Met Ready but live local to our Cyncoed or Llandaff campuses and have enrolled and uploaded your photo, you can collect your MetCard from the campus libraries from Monday, September 8 during library opening hours .
But if you’d prefer to wait for Welcome Week, that’s fine!
Upload your photo so that your MetCard is ready for you to collect

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/faqs:
Your Welcome Week timetables will be available from 1 September, 2025 on this section of the website.
We’ll also send you the link in your welcome e-mails.
These will include details of your first academic session.
Your programme director will also be in touch in September to share this information, and anything else you need to know that’s specific to your course.
You’ll be able to access your course timetable (for post Welcome Week) after you have enrolled on this page .
You can find term dates on this page .
You can find out more here .
Once you have completed your online enrolment, your Cardiff Met user login details will be sent to your personal email address.
Once you have your Cardiff Met account, you can access your email through the Outlook app that you can find on the Apps section of the Microsoft 365 homepage.
TIP: Your Cardiff Met username for Microsoft services is st[your student number]@outlook.cardiffmet.ac.uk, e.g.
st12345678@outlook.cardiffmet.ac.uk – don’t forget the @outlook.cardiffmet.ac.uk part!
Use the geteduroam app to connect to the eduroam network.
Your username for connecting to eduroam is slightly different to your username for Microsoft services!
It is st[your student number]@cardiffmet.ac.uk (no “outlook” in the suffix).
Full details are available in the Halo knowledge base guide: Halo - Connect to Cardiff Met's Wi-Fi - preferred method
You can reset your password through the Password Management system .
Moodle is your online learning environment, which will be used as part of your programme of study.
Moodle is just one of the important systems and software you will use at Cardiff Met.
When you have enrolled, you need to complete the Digital Essentials induction, which introduces other crucial IT systems and services and explores how you can use them securely; please ensure you complete it.
Yes, you will need a laptop to support your studies.
This doesn’t need to be expensive.
Once you have enrolled, check out our advice for buying a device .
We also offer a free laptop loan scheme from the lap safes on the ground floor of the Learning Centres in both campuses.
Longer loans are also available for up to a month in term time, available from the Helpdesks.
All students can install the Office suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Teams) for free .
When you have enrolled, you’ll be able to access the Halo guides for information: Halo - Install Microsoft 365 Apps .
Your course may require you to use other software during your studies, such as the Adobe Creative Cloud suite.
These software packages are available on the Learning Centres’ computers, both in person and often remotely through Find A PC .
You will also be able to install many applications on your own personal device.
We do not recommend buying any software yourself, until you see what is available through Cardiff Met.
A: When you have enrolled, the most convenient way to get help is to use the Halo Help Portal .
Halo includes an extensive knowledge bank of articles that can help you resolve an issue yourself.
If you can't find an answer, you can chat to a member of helpdesk staff or log a ticket with details of your problem.
Halo can be used now to get IT help, but soon Halo will be able to help with other Cardiff Met queries - such as enrolment, accommodation and library questions.
Once you have completed your enrolment, you will have access to your student intranet – MetCentral .
You can find out more on this MetCentral page.
You will also be able to access the CampusM student app.
There’s lots of information on our accommodation pages and on the ‘ Moving into Halls ’ page.
You can contact our accommodation team by email accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call 029 2041 6188.
All Cardiff Met students for 2025-26 will be able to access a free Met Active membership, with unlimited access to gyms at both Llandaff and Cyncoed , plus the swimming pool at Cyncoed for the whole year.
To register for free, download the Cardiff Met Sport App .
You can find out more opportunities to get active and use sports facilities here .
You can find out more about joining a club or society on the Students’ Union website .
There’s lots of places to grab a hot meal, a coffee, a snack and your essentials across both our campuses.
You can find information on campus facilities, including all of our catering outlets, on MetCentral , which you will be able to access when you have enrolled.
There is a small Students’ Union tuck shop on Cyncoed campus for smaller shopping trips.
Additionally, there are shops a short walk from all campuses:
Yes.
If you are moving into the area, it’s important to register early with a local GP so you can quickly access assistance when you need it .
Registering with a GP in Cardiff and the Vale is easy.
Simply identify a practice close to your university address and contact the surgery to see if they are accepting new patients.
There will be local GP at the Students’ Union Freshers’ Fayre available to register students on Wednesday, 24 September
OR
You can find a practice close to your new address .
To register, you can either collect a form from the practice itself, or if available, you can register online.
Check the practice website to see if this is possible.
To register with a GP, you will need:
You may also want to register with a Welsh speaking GP, or a GP who speaks another language .
You can study anywhere with the internet as MetSearch will give you access to e-books and Moodle will enable you to access course content online.
Study spaces on campus include the libraries at Cyncoed and Llandaff.
The library has helpful, friendly staff and a wide range of training courses, tours and resources.
Just pop in or take a look online .
There are also a range of quiet study spaces options for students on both Cyncoed and Llandaff .
Your student ID card is also your library card and your door key.
You can borrow 30 physical books (at a time) and unlimited electronic resources (e-books, journals and databases).
There’s more information on completing your library induction .
Find out more about available here .
Our wellbeing team can help with this.
Complete this form to start the process.
You can find out more about Student Support available here .
You can find information about our student Wellbeing Service , including how to book an appointment with the team, self-help resources and other free mental health resources including a 24/7 online support function.
You can also find lots of advice on ways to keep costs down and some of the support available, from free tea and coffee in our commuter kitchens and free gym membership to free repairs and clothing exchanges at our community days, on our Cost of Living Action page on MetCentral.
You can access this when you have enrolled.
Look out for our cost of living offers in catering outlets too.
There’s lots of information about travelling around the city on this webpage .
The MetRider scheme offers heavily discounted, unlimited travel (7 days a week) on all Cardiff Bus services.
This includes the dedicated MetRider route between Llandaff Campus and Cyncoed Campus.
Valid from 1st September 2025 to 30th June 2026, this pass is exclusive to Cardiff Met students, giving you the freedom to travel city-wide and beyond (to Barry and Newport) for the whole academic year.
We’re offering a limited number of earlybird MetRider travel passes, with the cost dependent on age:
Apply for your MetRider pass
To get cheaper rail fares, pick up a student railcard leaflet at the train station, fill it out and, if you’re enrolled, we can stamp it for you at the i-Zone .
As a sustainable university, we strongly advise against bringing your car to Cardiff unless it is essential, for example you have limited mobility.
Student permits are very limited so all applications are assessed based on needs and availability.
If you have a Blue Badge you can park in an accessible space, and you’ll qualify for a free permit.
Student applications open on 1 August each year; all applications received by the end of August will be determined before the start of term.
Contact carparkmanagement@cardiffmet.ac.uk for more details.
There’s more information on travel and transport options on MetCentral – you’ll be able to access this once you enrol.
Register with thestudio@cardiffmet.ac.uk to have free access to the secure bike shelters added to your MetCard.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/moving-into-your-halls:
The countdown to arrivals is on!
You’ve confirmed your accommodation – now what?
If you have been allocated a place in Cardiff Met Halls, we stagger the arrival dates over several days, the weekend before Welcome Week.
You’ll receive an email with all the details a few weeks before your contract begins.
Arrival dates for Cardiff Met nominated halls may vary depending on the location, but the process is usually quite similar.
Your provider will provide your move-in dates well in advance for you to plan accordingly.
You will probably already be thinking about what to bring with you.
Here is a list of essentials to get you started:
To keep everything safe and hassle free, please avoid bringing the following items:
Most people will be nervous, even if they don’t show it.
Don’t be afraid to say a friendly hello and introduce yourself; this can break the ice and make you feel less nervous.
Leave your door open, this makes it easy for people to say hi as they are passing.
Games can be a great way to break the ice, classic games like Monopoly or bring a pack of cards and play a game of poker.
There will be loads of Moving In Weekend and Welcome Week events happening, including Freshers Fair, so why not go along with your flatmates and get to know one another better?
Finally, always be yourself.
You don’t have to pretend to like drinking if you don’t like drinking or to like politics if you are not interested in it.
The best way to make friends is to be yourself, so you know they’ll like you for being you.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/whats-on:
There’s a packed programme of activities for students moving into halls during Moving In weekend and Welcome Week.
Your halls provider will promote these to you, but here’s a selection of free activities happening at Plas Gwyn and Cyncoed that will be run by our Res Life team.
There’s lots more happening at Cyncoed through the Students’ Union – give the SU a follow on Instagram, TikTok and Facebook – @CardiffMetSU, or visit the website to find out more.
Drop-in
9.30am – 5.00pm
Meet and Greet
Meet Met Res Life staff.
Sign up to activities and vote for the type of residence life activity that appeals to you.
2.00pm – 5.00pm
Make Your Mark
Meet your Res Life Student Ambassadors.
Draw an image of what living in Cardiff Met Halls means to you.
These will be put together to create one big picture, which we will print onto souvenirs of your time in Cardiff Met Halls.
Get Crafty
Make cards for family and friends – present and future.
Meet your Res Life Student Ambassadors, and Met Res Life staff.
Met Music
Step into a night of unforgettable live music with talented student singer and acoustic guitarist, Archie Hares!
Another chance to step into a night of unforgettable live music with talented student singer and acoustic guitarist, Archie Hares!
School Night 1, followed by Cardiff Quiz
A chance to meet others on your course, then join ranks to win our quiz.
Wellbeing Wednesday
A wellbeing walk to a coffee shop, with FREE coffee
School Night 2 and Met Mixers
A chance to meet others on your course, then make your favourite mocktails.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/welcome-week-information:
Welcome Week, which starts on Monday, 22 September, offers a series of activities and events designed to help you get to know Cardiff Met, engage with your programme of study, and forge connections with staff and fellow students, ensuring you settle into your academic journey from day one.
You’ll also have time to explore your new home city.
We will have Welcome Week hubs on campus, which will be the place to go to find out everything you need to know and where we will answer any question you might have.
There will also be staff and student ambassadors all over campus to support you.
The hubs will be open from 9am to 4pm on Monday 22 September through to Friday, 26 September.
Please note though that the Llandaff Campus hub will close on Wednesday, September 24 as all activity moves to Cyncoed for the Students' Union Freshers’ Fayre.
That’s not to be missed!
There will be the opportunity to take part in a range of activities – some social and some which will provide you with a taste of what you can expect during your studies at Cardiff Met.
Look out for your Welcome emails for more information about Welcome Week, including timetables for your first week.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/welcome-events:
We have a number of events planned to help you prepare for your Cardiff Met experience and to settle into your new home.
Some are open to all new students, and some are designed for specific groups.
Transition Event
This event is specifically designed to support neurodiverse students and new students with mental health, disability or additional support needs to transition to University.
Students selected for this event will receive an e-mail invitation and booking link from our Student Services team.
Get Cardiff Met Ready
This event will run on both campuses on 5 September, 2025, and is open to all new undergraduate students .
You’ll receive an e-mail with a link to sign up during the summer.
The day is all about getting you set for an excellent start at Cardiff Met, helping you familiarise yourself with your campus and giving you the opportunity to meet other students before Welcome Week.
You’ll also be able to collect your MetCard if you have enrolled and uploaded your photo .
Please note that students invited to attend the Transition event are also very welcome to attend Get Cardiff Met Ready!
International Student Welcome
This event is specifically designed for new international students.
International students will be contacted by our Global Engagement team with details.
Moving In Events
These events are specifically designed for those students moving into University halls of residence.
You can find out more on our Moving In pages .
Welcome Week – Monday, 22 September to Friday, 26 September
You’ve arrived!
It’s really important that you engage with your Welcome Week programme.
During this week, you’ll find out everything you need to know to successfully start your studies at Cardiff Met and you’ll meet your programme team.
We’ll send you a link to your Welcome Week timetable with details of all the sessions you need to attend in early September.
Around these sessions, our Welcome Week information hubs will be open from you to visit between 9am and 4pm , featuring teams including Student Services, IT, Libraries and the Students’ Union.
There will also be opportunities to take part in campus tours and speak to current students.
The Llandaff Campus hub will close on Wednesday, 24 September as all activity moves to Cyncoed for the Students’ Union’s Freshers’ Fayre .
That’s not to be missed.
Find out more about what the Students’ Union have planned for you.
Please note that Welcome events for PGCE students happen earlier in September.
These students will be e-mailed directly with the details.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/getting-around-cardiff:
Walking to campus is a free, easy and quick way to get from the Halls of Residence, which are located in close proximity to our campuses.
From halls such as Plas Gwyn, Now Students North Court or Unite Students Blackweir Lodge the walk is no longer than 30 minutes.
Depending on where you choose to live, we recommend using Google Maps to plan your route accordingly and to buddy up with some of your household to match timetables and walk together.
Cardiff is a great city for cycling and Cardiff Met won the Most Cycle Friendly Business award at the 2019 Cardiff Cycling Awards.
There are dry cycle stores which you can access with your MetCard, maintenance stands, tools, lockers, showers and even special cycle paths available on and around our campuses.
Llandaff has dedicated facilities that are situated at the rear of the School of Art & Design.
At Cyncoed, facilities are located at the Tennis Centre.
Want to cycle around Cardiff but don't have a bike yet?
For a number of years Cardiff Met has been working with Cardiff Cycle Workshop, a non-for-profit organisation to offer students the best deals on refurbished bikes.
Bikes prices start at £70 for adults and come with a warranty.
To find out more, please visit the Cardiff Cycle Workshop website .
The University also offers free monthly bike maintenance with Dr.
Bike and security marking can be provided at the same event by South Wales police.
You can find the next event dates on "What's Happening" on your MetCentral portal .
The M1 service provides the connection between Llandaff and Cyncoed campus and has various pick-up spots on its route, such as Whitchurch and Cathays.
Catch the 52 service to get onto the Cyncoed Campus.
It drops off in front of the main building and runs hourly throughout the day, with additional departures every 30 minutes during peak times.
Catch the 1 service or 2 service that stop immediately outside Llandaff Campus or the 24 , 25 , 62 , 63 , which stop a few minutes’ walk away at either Howells School or Llandaff Village.
Don't forget to purchase your MetRider pass for heavily discounted bus travel between campuses and the city centre.
Another option is to catch a taxi or an Uber to your campus and share the cost among your household.
An Uber from Roath/Cathays to Llandaff Campus or Cyncoed Campus is about £8 each way.
The Students’ Union have teamed up with Veezu Taxis to ensure safe transport home is always available, even if you don’t have money for a fare home on you.
By phoning 029 2033 3333 , quoting ‘Cardiff Metropolitan University Safe Taxi Scheme’, and having a valid student card as proof of ID, a vehicle will be sent to you as a matter of priority between the hours of 10pm and 6am to take you home.
Be mindful that this service is for emergencies only.
The service is available 24 hours a day and has a maximum allowance of £20 and four students to travel.
Cardiff Met SU will guarantee the payment for you, and you can settle up from there.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/freshers-top-tips:
In the lead up to Welcome Week, we have rounded up some of our top tips to help you settle in and make this new chapter as easy as possible.
TV Licence: You will need a TV licence if you have a TV in your halls or if you watch iPlayer for catching up on TV.
Find out how to set up this up online.
Contents insurance: it is sensible to have contents insurance to protect your belongings should they go missing or are stolen.
Confused.com’s Student Hub has a host of insurance providers available to help you find the correct policy.
Register with a GP so that you can receive routine and urgent care if you need it.
This is especially important if you have an ongoing health condition.
More information on healthcare options is available on MetCentral .
Council tax: As a student, you are exempt from paying council tax.
If you are living in private rented accommodation, you will need to notify your local council of your new address.
Finances – Cardiff Met’s Money Advice team can help you with any budgeting and money concerns.
More information is available on MetHub .
Learn to cook: food can be a great way to bond with people, learn new recipes from different backgrounds and cultures and make new friends.
Suggest a house dinner once a week, everyone has to bring an ingredient and one person will teach the rest of the group how to cook a meal.
Join a sports team/gym: keeping fit is a good way to keep physically and mentally healthy but you could also discover a hobby you love from doing so and meet new people along the way.
Cardiff Met is offering FREE gym and swimming memberships for students this year so there is no better time to join.
You are now in Wales’ Capital City.
If you are new to Wales, explore off campus activities at Visit ​Wales .
Recycle – this may be a first if university is your first time living away from home.
Make sure you know which items to separate and do your bit to keep the environment clean and tidy.
Information on recycling and waste can be found on the Cardiff Council webpage.
Starting university can create feelings of anxiety, but remember, you are not alone on this journey and every single person will be feeling a mix of emotions as they embark on this exciting chapter in life.
Be mindful to:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/digital-skills-induction:
The Digital Essentials induction provides new students with the core digital skills you need to study at Cardiff Met.
There’s also more IT information in your new student FAQs .
You will learn about the technologies and digital practices that enable you to undertake your studies when learning in person and when learning online.
The induction explores essential systems such as Moodle, email, our Wi-Fi, managing your documents and Microsoft Teams – the digital communication platform that will be central to your learning.
Here’s what you need to do:
You can complete the Digital Essentials e-lesson any time – it should only take about 25 minutes.
We suggest completing it before you arrive at Cardiff Met.
You can also sign up for the two training sessions.
These will be held through a Microsoft Teams meeting in Welcome Week and during the first two weeks of term.
Look out for more information in your Welcome emails.
Like all our courses, successful completion of the induction leads to the Digital Essentials Induction digital badge – proof of your skills you can easily share with employers.
Visit the Digital Essentials page to get started.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/student-support:
Throughout your time at Cardiff Met, Student Services are here for you.
We offer a range of high quality and specialist support, available on campus and online through 1:1 appointments, workshops, drop-ins, webinars, and online resources.
Our aim is to help you overcome any barriers you may face while studying with us and help you to achieve your full potential.
You can access support from:
If you have a query, or want to find out more about Student Services and access non-academic support, your first port of call should be the i-zone.
You can find the i-zone next to main reception on Llandaff Campus and in the Library on Cyncoed Campus.
You can also find out more about the available support online via our MetHub pages or you can email studentservices@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Along with our three multi faith prayer rooms available across our campuses, the Chaplaincy team can provide you with advice and support on faith-related issues.
For any queries, please email the Chaplaincy service at chaplaincy@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
We want to understand how to help you work towards your career goals while you study with us.
The Your Career Plans questionnaire will help us do that, and you will receive some tips for getting started based on your answers.
Complete Your Career Plans questionnaire

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/new-international-students:
Before you can enrol on your course at Cardiff Met, you will need to complete the following steps:
If you have applied for a Student Visa to study in the UK, you will have an eVisa which is an online record of your immigration status and the conditions of your permission to enter or stay in the UK.
You will need to provide the University with a copy of your share code so that your eVisa can be checked.
To view your eVisa and retrieve your share code, please visit: https://www.gov.uk/view-prove-immigration-status .
Once you have obtained a share code, you will need to upload this along with a copy of your flight boarding pass to CAS Shield .
You will need to check your email (including your junk / spam folder) for an email from enrolment@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
You will then need to click on the link in the email and enter the username and password provided.
To complete the online enrolment process, you must use a computer not a phone.
It is important that you complete all the enrolment screens.
All fields marked with a red star must be completed and you should ensure you enter your permanent UK address (not temporary accommodation i.e.
a hotel and UK mobile number.
Once you have followed the steps above, you can complete your enrolment.
Alternatively, you will complete enrolment and collect your ID card at the International Student Welcome event.
All students should make every effort to arrive at the University in time to attend the International Student Welcome Event.
This will usually take place on the Saturday before your course start date (this date can be found on your offer letter and CAS).
However, confirmation of the date and time of this important event will be sent to you via email.
On this day, you will be able to complete your enrolment, collect your student ID card, gain practical advice about living in Cardiff, access your timetable and meet lots of other new students.
Your first week at University is one of the most important weeks because this is when you will find out what is expected of you as a student and what you can expect from the University.
You will meet the academic team for your course, your fellow course-mates, undertake some preparatory work for your course and engage with the University services that you will need throughout your studies with us.
If there are circumstances beyond your control which mean you are unable to arrive on time, you must email immigrationregs@cardiffmet.ac.uk to explain the reasons for your late arrival along with the date you are intending to travel.
The team will contact your Academic School to enquire if they would permit you to enrol late and provide you with further advice.
Please note, there are no guarantees that late enrolment will be approved.
It is essential that you carefully consider your accommodation options and fully understand the costs associated with living in the UK.
We strongly recommend that you begin researching accommodation in Cardiff before you travel.
For more information on finding accommodation in Cardiff and avoiding any scams, please visit: Accommodation for International Students at Cardiff Metropolitan University
Although Cardiff Metropolitan University offers halls of residence, many international students choose to live off-campus in privately rented accommodation, and some opt to stay with friends or relatives to save on costs.
Wherever you choose to live, it is important that your accommodation is within a reasonable commuting distance of your campus.
The University recommends that you live within a maximum of a one-hour commute of Cardiff.
Please note that the location of your accommodation will not be accepted as a valid reason for missing classes, nor is it grounds to request online study.
Attendance at all face-to-face classes is mandatory and a requirement of your student visa.
You will be studying a full-time course, which may involve classes scheduled every day from Monday to Friday.
Your timetable cannot be adjusted to accommodate personal circumstances, including your travel distance.
Living too far from Cardiff could cause several problems:
As required by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI), the university will closely monitor your attendance and engagement.
Failure to attend classes regularly due to accommodation choices is not acceptable and may result in your withdrawal from the course and cancellation of your student visa.
Other useful links:
For more information about paying your fees, follow this link .
It is important that you plan to pay your tuition fees on time.
Failure to pay on time or to clear your balance by the deadline could result in sanctions and potential withdrawal from your course.
This will also affect your visa.
We know that part-time work is important to many international students in supporting their studies and career aspirations.
There are a wide range of part-time job opportunities for international students in Cardiff.
Once you have enrolled, Cardiff Met has a dedicated Careers Service that will be able to provide you with support as you seek part-time work.
However, it is important that you do not rely on the availability of part-time work to fund your life in Cardiff.
You should ensure that you have sufficient funds to pay for your studies and your life in the UK before you arrive.
Further information about working during your studies can be found here .
Yes, all students should bring a laptop with them to enable full engagement with their studies.
There is a Cardiff Met helpdesk for students who have queries or issues with their IT equipment during their studies.
They are always happy to help.
You can find more information and advice on IT and libraries support and equipment in our new student FAQS – please note that some of these links may not be available until after you have enrolled.
If you are not registered with a doctor in the UK, but you need medicine, you can purchase medication from a pharmacy such as Boots .
You can only register with a doctor (GP) once you have a UK address.
When you have moved into your accommodation, you must register with a doctor’s surgery located near to your new home as soon as possible, do not wait to become unwell first.
You can find more information in our new student FAQs .
If you believe that you need medical help, you can call NHS Wales by dialling 111 on your mobile phone.
You will be connected to a medical professional who can help and provide advice.
If there is an emergency situation, please call 999.
You should only call this number if your life, or the life of someone else is in immediate danger.
It can take a number of weeks for students to open a bank account once they arrive in the UK.
Therefore, it is vital that you have means to make essential purchases when you first arrive.
Although you will need some cash available, for security reasons, we recommend that you do not carry large amounts of cash.
We strongly recommend that you contact your bank before you arrive to open an account that will provide you with a credit or debit card that you can use abroad.
Although this may not be a good solution for you long term, it will be very useful for you to use for a few weeks when you first arrive in the UK.
You will find that many places in the UK, including Cardiff Met campuses, are cashless, so you must have a credit or debit card available to make purchases.
No.
Your course is not an online course.
Attendance at all face-to-face sessions is compulsory and an essential requirement of both your course and immigration obligations as a student visa holder.
There’s lots of information about getting around Cardiff on our new student hub.
You can also read more about our Llandaff and Cyncoed campus locations.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/research-students:
Welcome and congratulations on being offered a place on a postgraduate research degree programme at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Cardiff Met is an excellent choice for postgraduate research study.
We pride ourselves in having a strong reputation in applied research and an active engagement with business and industry.
This is demonstrated through our high scores in the annual Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) where we have ranked in the top 10 for General Satisfaction for 5 years in a row.
Research undertaken by our academic staff is invariably at the cutting edge of knowledge exploration, thus enriching students’ experience and their academic development, and importantly has real world impact.
Whether you are joining us as a full-time or part-time postgraduate research student, we can offer you first-class, unique research opportunities.
In order to self-enrol your status with Cardiff Met must be Unconditional Firm (UF) and you will be sent a notification email to confirm you are able to proceed.
Click here to complete your enrolment online.
For help and support, visit the enrolment section.
Following enrolment, postgraduate research degree students will receive access to dedicated study and networking spaces on campus and staff facilities/resources to aid their research.
Please notify your Director of Studies once you have enrolled and you will be provided with further joining information.
All new postgraduate researchers enrolling in 2025-26 are expected to attend an informal ‘Meet & Greet’ session followed by a more formal Induction.
The ‘Meet & Greet’ will provide you with an opportunity to engage with key members of staff from the Graduate Studies team who will be involved with your research degree journey.
Induction will introduce you to key topics which are relevant to the initial stages of your postgraduate researcher study.
Start dates 2025/26 :
Fees and Finance
The Doctoral Academy
Once you have enrolled you will be provided with access to Cardiff Met’s Doctoral Academy .
The Doctoral Academy is a one-stop shop for postgraduate research degree students and their Supervisors and contains:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/mycardiffmet-app:
The MyCardiffMet mobile app provides quick and easy access to the essential tools and services you need during your University life.
It will enable you to:
App Store: Download the "Cardiff Met University" app from the Apple App Store .
Google Play: Download the "Cardiff Met University" app from Google Play Store .
MyCardiffMet can be personalised to show only the tiles you want to see and the order in which you want to see them.
When you have enrolled, you’ll be able to access our guides to personalising MyCardiffMet on your IOS or Android device, as well as the FAQs .
For help using the MyCardiffMet app please visit the Help section within the app.
If you are experiencing issues that you cannot find the answer to please email campusm@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/met-central:
Once you have completed your enrolment, you will have access to your student intranet – MetCentral.
MetCentral is packed full of information on student life at Cardiff Met and up-to-date University news and events.
MetCentral also features important guidance on a number of student-related topics, ranging from financial advice and mental health and wellbeing support , to study tips and advice on how to get around Cardiff.
MetCentral also has tools and resources with useful and links to assist you in your studies and to access student services , money advice and IT and careers support .
There’s also regular competitions; during the 2024-25 academic year, we gave away prizes ranging from hoodies and a free Chilly’s bottle, all the way up to a £250 ASOS voucher and a TV!
Visit MetCentral

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/library-induction:
The Library induction explores how to access the resources and support that are designed to support you in your learning throughout your time at Cardiff Met.
It is an online induction, so you can complete it any time and it should only take about 10 minutes to watch the video on the Library Essentials page.
The Library Services web pages have information on opening hours, access to 24-hour study spaces, study rooms, and much more.
You can email the Library , use our live webchat service or come and talk to our friendly Library team in person during Welcome Week.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/personal-tutors:
Every student will have a Personal Academic Tutor allocated to them during their induction period.
Your Personal Academic Tutor will usually be an academic member of staff from your course.
Your Personal Academic Tutor supports your learning journey from your first week at Cardiff Met right through to graduation.
This guide explains how Personal Academic Tutoring works and how to make the most of it to support your learning journey, achieve the degree you aspire to and establish a firm foothold for your future career.
Personal Academic Tutoring Guide for Students
The key aims of Personal Academic Tutoring (PAT) are to:
No matter the query, your personal tutor will be able to help you to access the most appropriate person or support within the University or beyond.
You can find out who your Personal Academic Tutor is through your MetStats portal (after you have enrolled) and email them for advice or an appointment.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/your-students-union:
We are Cardiff Met SU, the vibrant heartbeat of Cardiff Met University.
When you join Cardiff Met, you automatically become a part of the Students’ Union, and that means that you get access to everything we have to offer from day one!
We support your student journey, represent your voice, and give you plenty of opportunities to get involved, meet new people, and have a great time along the way.
From attending our events such as the SU Freshers’ Fayre and Varsity, there is something for everyone to get involved with.
Our SU Sports clubs travel across the country, competing across the UK in BUCS and our SU Societies are a great way to meet people who share your interests, cultures, or courses.
Every student has a powerful voice, and we aim to make sure that you’re heard.
Working with our team of Student Leaders, we create policy and campaigns to make your student life better, winning for and with you.
Our values being 'Student Led', 'Equality', 'Empowering', 'Transparency', and 'Fun' guide us, and act as the foundation our identity.
They shape our culture, behaviours, and provide a purpose to be the best that we can be for you.
Ultimately, we are here to create a thriving student community where you are empowered to connect and succeed.
You are at the heart of everything we do!
For more information you can find us on Instagram, TikTok and Facebook – @CardiffMetSU, visit our website , email us at studentunion@cardiffmet.ac.uk , or visit us in our offices on both campuses.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/using-adobe-express:
Cardiff Met: Wales’s First Adobe Creative Campus
We’re proud to be the first university in Wales to become an Adobe Creative Campus - a global partnership that gives all Cardiff Met students free access to Adobe Express, an intuitive and powerful tool for creating standout digital content.
From day one day one, you can use Adobe Express to enhance your learning; whether it’s creating videos, designing social media posts, building webpages, or producing eye-catching CVs and portfolios.
With ready-made templates and simple tools, it’s easy to get started and build confidence in digital creativity.
In today’s world, digital skills aren’t optional - they’re essential.
This partnership with Adobe helps you express yourself, grow your personal brand, and prepare you for a wide range of careers that rely on creative communication.
As part of a global network of over 90 Adobe Creative Campuses, you can take your skills even further.
You can join the Adobe ambassador programme, get involved in exclusive extracurricular activities, and earn Adobe-certified badges that showcase the skills employers are looking for.
No matter what degree you’re studying, every Cardiff Met student gets the tools and opportunities to stand out, from their first assignment to their first job.
You can use Adobe Express once you have enrolled as a Cardiff Met student – don’t worry, we’ll send you full details about how to do this over the summer.
Once enrolled, you can access the software using your Cardiff Met single sign on.
You can either use your browser or download the app to your tablet or smartphone.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/study/new-students/welsh-communities--opportunities:
We have a vibrant Welsh community at Cardiff Met, which includes both Welsh speakers and learners, and there’s plenty of opportunities and activities to get involved with.
You can find out more on our Study in Welsh pages.
The Welsh Government has a vision of a million Welsh speakers by 2050 so there’s an increasing demand for Welsh skills in the workforce across Wales.
Cardiff Met offers many opportunities to develop, improve and use these skills, if you would like to.
For the first time, free Welsh lessons will be available to all Cardiff Met students in September 2025.
Places are limited and will be available on a first come first served basis.
13:30 – 14:30
Welsh Taster Session
Room C025
12:00 – 13:00
11:00 – 12:00
Room 0113
12:30 – 13:30
Room T006
Cardiff Met wants to support you to use your Welsh as part of your studies and in everyday life.
If you are fluent, near-fluent or studying modules through the medium of Welsh, you can join one of our proficiency level classes.
This will help boost your confidence in written Welsh, academic Welsh and using the language in public.
You’ll hear more about these opportunities during Welcome Week.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/cymorth/gwasanaeth-gyrfaoedd:
Gallwch gyrchu gwasanaethau ac adnoddau sydd wedi’u cynllunio i wella’ch sgiliau cyflogadwyedd a’ch paratoi’n well ar gyfer byd gwaith.
Os ydych yn archwilio eich opsiynau gyrfa, yn chwilio am swydd, neu angen help gyda CV neu gyfweliad, rydym yma i helpu.
Fel un o raddedigion Met Caerdydd, gallwch barhau i gyrchu cymorth gan ein Gwasanaeth Gyrfaoedd.​
Rydym yn gweithio gyda chyflogwyr i’w helpu i gysylltu â’n corff myfyrwyr a denu’r talent gorau.
Archwilio ffyrdd o recriwtio ein myfyrwyr presennol a graddedigion diweddar.
Gwybodaeth i Gyflogwyr

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/careers-service/current-students:
​​​​​​Book an appointment, attend an event, and access online resources.
It's never too soon to start thinking about your next steps after completing your course, whether that's into further study or the world of work.
We can help you explore your options, develop your employability skills and prepare for job applications.
If you have additional barriers to employment, such as a disability, a diagnosed mental health condition or have caring responsibilities, you can also benefit from more tailored careers support.
We offer an informal, impartial and confidential 20 minute 1:1 appointment, which can be held in person or online through Teams​.
Whether you're just getting started thinking about your future or have some clear ideas we can help.
You can book an appointment with a member of the team using MetHub.
Choose the topic you're interested in to get started:
Book an appointment on MetHub
Most job descriptions include a specific list of skills, attributes and strengths that are needed to take on the role.
You have the opportunity to develop these skills during your studies, so you can be work-ready before you even graduate.
Whether you're in the early stages of thinking about your career, have some ideas but can't get started, or need help applying for your dream job, we are here to help.
Our Shape Your Future platform is a one-stop-shop for access to activities and resources that will help you develop key employability skills that demonstrate to employers that you're ready for the world of work.
Our careers e-Module is designed to help you develop your employability skills and start planning for the future.
Gain skills and knowledge that are transferable to professional and graduate careers.
Access our careers e-Module on Moodle
You can attend events throughout the year, both in and out of term time.
Our events are opportunities to:
Register for an event on MetHub
Looking for work can be challenging, but the good news is that employers are often eager to recruit aspiring graduates into their volunteering, part-time, internship and graduate opportunities.
As soon as you receive your student username and password, you can search for an opportunity on MetHub.
Browse our current vacancies on MetHub
Browse careers resources online, including:
Perfect your interview skills by practicing your technique on our video interviewing practice platform.
Login to Shortlist.Me

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/careers-service/prospective-students:
Explore the ways we can support you with your career when you join Cardiff Met.
When choosing a university and degree course, we understand how important it is to feel confident that your choice will lead to good future prospects.
That’s why our Careers Service is committed to developing highly employable and industry ready graduates.
While having a degree is important, a degree on its own is often not enough for an increasingly competitive graduate market.
Students need to demonstrate that they have developed their knowledge, skills and experience by engaging in activities outside of their studies.
You may have some career ideas in mind, or you may have no idea at all.
Before you can begin to focus and make decisions, it’s a good idea to spend some time investigating them further.
We can help with that!
Most job descriptions include a specific list of skills, attributes and strengths that are needed for the role.
Whether you’re in the early stages of thinking about your career, have some ideas but can’t get started, or need help applying for your dream job, we are here to help.
Our Shape Your Future platform is a one-stop-shop for access to activities and resources that will help you develop key employability skills that demonstrate to employers that you’re ready for the world of work.
Some students come from less advantaged backgrounds and/or groups under-represented in society.
Too often, these students face additional barriers to securing professional employment after university.
Our team of experienced Careers Coaches are committed to helping under-represented students enhance their employability skills while at university so that they can compete for quality, sustainable jobs after graduation.
This support could include:
Your progress will be regularly reviewed in 1:1 meetings with your coach and the support adapted as you develop and your confidence improves.
If you would like to speak to one of the team for more information, email wideningsuccess@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Our expert staff offer impartial advice and can support you with options with your degree, career planning, job search, CV writing, interview preparation, and much more.
Whether you’re just getting started thinking about your future or have some clear ideas we can help.
​Throughout the year, you can book on events focused on career planning and employability skills development.
These include:
We bring employability skills into your classroom.
You will find us delivering talks in your lecture theatres and we will invite you to talks given by employers relevant to your course.
We’re also involved in the design of your course, making sure you have the best chance of leaving ​University with the skills you need to thrive in the graduate jobs market.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/careers-service/international-students:
Whether you are looking for part-time work during your studies, or hoping to remain in the UK and work after you graduate, we can help.
We have a small team of professionals who provide dedicated careers support to our International students.
We work closely with the Global Engagement Team to support you when you first arrive in the UK and can explain UK working practices early on in your University journey.
Current students and graduates can access valuable careers advice, including everything you need to know about working in the UK, on our Shape Your Future platform.
We can help you to:
We also have resources that can help you to:
To get started, download our Careers and Employability Support guide for international students .
Student Circus is a job search portal for international students in the UK who are currently on a student visa.
They promote full-time job opportunities from UK companies that have a Skilled Worker visa sponsorship license and would therefore consider sponsoring a Skilled Worker visa.
They also promote Internships from all employers irrespective of the fact whether they have a Skilled Worker visa sponsorship license or not.
Once you have enrolled as a student, you can register with Student Circus​ using your Cardiff Met email address.
​We also work in close collaboration with our Global Student Advisory Team, who will be able to support you with all your visa related queries and can support you further in getting accustomed to life in the UK and at University.
You can speak to an adviser at the Global Student Advisory Service by contacting intstudentadvice@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/careers-service/graduates:
As a Cardiff Met graduate, you can continue to access support from our Careers Service.
From CV writing and interview tips to career planning webinars, our Employability Advisors and Careers Consultants are here to help.
Recent Cardiff Met graduates can continue to use MetHub to:
Graduates can access their accounts by:
This will send a password reset token to the personal email address you have registered with the University.
If you cannot remember which email address you have registered, please click 'Forgotten your details or don't have access to your email address?' and follow the instructions there.
If you do not receive the password reset email, or you no longer have access to the email you registered to the University with, please contact us on methub@cardiffmet.ac.uk to request the email on your account be updated.
You will need to quote your student number.​
We are one of four universities in South Wales to partner with the Cardiff Capital Region and support their Venture Graduate Scheme.
The scheme aims to link talented graduates with ambitious businesses and ensure that the Cardiff Capital Region is an attractive destination for graduates to begin their careers.
There are several recruitment windows throughout the year where graduates can apply for graduate-level roles in a wide range of sectors and disciplines.
Successful graduates will benefit from:
To find out more about the scheme and when the next recruitment window opens visit Venture Graduate .​
Tailored support to graduates interested in starting their own business and offers a range of options and resources necessary for business development and maintenance.
< Learn more about The Centre for Entrepreneurship
Graduate Outcomes is a national survey that aims to capture information about graduates' views, experiences and current activities, 15 months after graduating.
Update your details to receive your unique survey link and help shape the future of Cardiff Met.
Shape Your Future is a new initiative designed to support student's skills development.
If you graduated in 2023 onwards then you are still able to sign up to Shape Your Future by selecting 'I'm a graduate' when you login:
Find out more about Shape your Future
Login to Shape your Future as a graduate
If you have graduated prior to 2023, then you will need to contact the careers team on careersservice@cardiffmet.ac.uk​ to gain access.
If you have recently graduated, please continue to log in using your Cardiff Met student details for as long as your university email and password are still active.
If you have an invite for access, follow the instructions in the email received.
If you need to reset your password, click on the Reset password / first login link below.
Remember to check your junk inbox.​
​Shortlist.me is an online mock interviewing platform, allowing you to prepare for interviews in the comfort of your own home.
Email careersservice@cardiffmet.ac.uk for an access code to be able to access the platform as a graduate.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/careers-service/employers:
We work with employers to help them connect with our student body and attract the best talent.
Whether that is advertising vacancies, raising your profile as a graduate employer, or helping you find venues for employment events, we are here to give you as many opportunities as possible to engage with our talented students.
Visit our Employer Services website​​ .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/careers-service/shape-your-future:
Shape Your Future is a new initiative designed to support student’s skills development and highlights all the extra-curricular opportunities Cardiff Met has to offer in order for students to enhance their skills and gain experience alongside their academic studies.
Shape Your Future hosts a wealth of relevant and valuable internal and external resources, activities events, workshops and opportunities.
By engaging with Shape Your Future, students can develop confidence in many areas, which will ultimately help secure their graduate role.
Login to the Shape Your Future website
With Shape Your Future students can:
Prestigious Local and National employer partners have been instrumental in identifying the following eight Shape Your Future skills:
All events, resources and activities hosted on Shape Your Future will look to strengthen at least of one the above skills for students.
The platform is utilised by staff including Personal Tutors, Lecturers, and Careers Consultants, assisting in conversations relating to Careers, Employability and transferable skills, with some courses already embedding it into the curriculum.
If you graduated in 2023 onwards then you are still able to sign up to Shape ​Your Future by selecting 'I'm a graduate' when you login:
Login to Shape Your Future as a graduate
Remember to check your junk inbox.
To get in contact with one the Shape Your Future team please email yourfuture@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/careers-service/contact-us:
Careers and Employability careers@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Employer Services employerservices@cardiffmet.ac.uk
If you ​​​​are looking to talk to one of our team about anything careers and placements-related, you can book a one-to-one appointment via MetHub.
See our organisation chart​ to understand the teams involved in providing careers and placements support.
Also refer to our Statement of Service to understand the services our users can expect us to deliver.​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/astudio/cyngor-i-ymgeiswyr:
Rydyn ni’n falch iawn eich bod chi’n ystyried gwneud cais am le i astudio ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd.
Er mwyn sicrhau eich bod yn llwyddo i wau eich ffordd drwy’r ddrysfa o wybodaeth, ffurflenni a therfynau amser sy’n eich wynebu, rydym wedi casglu’r holl wybodaeth sydd ei hangen arnoch i gwblhau eich cais at ei gilydd.
Yn yr adran hon o’n gwefan, mae yna feysydd penodol ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy’n gwneud cais am radd israddedig (gyntaf), rhaglen meistr neu ymchwil a chwrs proffesiynol.
Ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd rydym yn croesawu ceisiadau gan ymgeiswyr o bob oed.
Rydym yn ystyried sgiliau a nodweddion a enillwyd o fyd gwaith a phrofiadau bywyd eraill yn ogystal â chymwysterau, a dylid nodi pob un ohonynt ar eich ffurflen gais berthnasol.
Edrychwn ymlaen at eich gweld ar y campws yn fuan!
Ewch i’n tudalennau Cais Israddedig i gael cyngor a gwybodaeth ar y broses ymgeisio UCAS.
Ewch i’n tudalennau cais Ôl-raddedig, Rhan-Amser, Proffesiynol, ac Ymchwil.
Ewch i’n tudalennau Cais Hyfforddi Athrawon i gael cyngor ar y broses ymgeisio TAR.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/busnes/entrepreneuriaeth:
Mae Entrepreneuriaeth Met Caerdydd yn gymuned gydnerth, weithgar ac ymgysylltiol.
Ein cenhadaeth yw eich galluogi i gydnabod a datblygu cyfleoedd i greu gwerth.
Byddwn yn ysbrydoli entrepreneuriaid i gael effaith yn lleol, yn genedlaethol ac yn fyd-eang trwy greu gwerth cymdeithasol, diwylliannol ac ariannol.
Byddwn yn gweithredu fel catalydd wrth greu sefydliadau cynaliadwy newydd, gan roi’r hyder a’r sgiliau ymarferol i sylfaenwyr greu gwerth yn eu syniadau.
Byddwn yn cael ein cydnabod yn genedlaethol am y gweithgaredd hwn.
Bydd pob myfyriwr yn cael cyfle i ddatblygu meddylfryd entrepreneuraidd a byddwn yn hwyluso hyn trwy weithio ar y cyd â chydweithwyr academaidd i gefnogi addysg entrepreneuriaeth, sy’n ymgysylltu, yn grymuso ac yn cael ei arwain gan ymchwil.
Byddwn yn cyfrannu at gynhyrchu a chymhwyso ymchwil sy’n arwain y byd fel bod y Brifysgol yn cael ei chydnabod fel canolfan ragoriaeth mewn addysg entrepreneuraidd, creadigrwydd entrepreneuriaeth, ac arloesedd.
Os oes gennych chi syniad am fusnes, neu eisiau cael sgwrs â chynghorydd am waith llawrydd gallwch gael mynediad at ein cefnogaeth drwy’r ffurflen syml hon.
Rydym yn cael ein hariannu’n rhannol trwy gefnogaeth garedig Llywodraeth Cymru a Syniadau Mawr Cymru .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/entrepreneurship/support-for-students:
​Be more Entrepreneurial!
As a Cardiff Met student, we know you are developing your EDGE.
Our job is helping you develop that last E; being more entrepreneurial.
This isn’t always about starting a business, but it is about creating value.
You might want to make yourself a more valuable employee, bring value to society or add value to your bank account!
You can find links to all our workshops, talks and networking sessions below.
Sign up to o​ur newsletter to make sure you hear about funding and special activities.
If you have an idea for a business or want to have a chat to an advisor about freelancing, you can access our support through this simple ​form .
Our activities are all about developing the knowledge, skills and experience to help you achieve your entrepreneurial aims and our award winning service does just that.
Cardiff Met supports more graduates into business than any other Welsh university and we can’t wait to start working with you.​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/entrepreneurship/support-for-graduates:
Cardiff Met Entrepreneurship provides a range of support for Cardiff Met graduates and Alumni.
All our support, and funding, is available for up to 2 years after you graduate.
To access our personal support, please complete this registration form and we will contact you.
Our manifesto states that you define success, so that means we’re happy to work with any entrepreneurial graduate.
Whether you want to freelance, develop your artistic portfolio, start a charity, create a tech start-up or simply change the world we want to work with you.
If a job with an employer is not your bag, come and be your own boss with our help and support.
Find our full address here .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/entrepreneurship/student-ip-policy:
During the course of your studies you may generate some novel work.
This is known as Intellectual Property (IP).
Intellectual Property is the term used to describe the outputs of creative endeavour in literary, artistic, industrial, scientific and engineering fields that can be protected under legislation.
In the University context this can be considered broadly as the results from research or creative projects.
As the generator of IP you are considered to be an ‘inventor’ or ‘creator’ and, together with the University, have rights to the Intellectual Property.
This is known as Intellectual Property Rights (IPR).
IPR give legal recognition to the ownership of intellectual property.
There are several different forms of rights or areas of law giving rise to rights that together make up IPR.
Students occupy a different position from members of staff.
The University makes no claim to ownership of intellectual property which a student makes arising from his or her research project, for example.
However, the common situation is one in which a research student is a member of a team whose work has resulted in an invention.
The University's practice is to treat the student concerned in no way differently from the members of staff constituting the team and enable him or her to participate in the revenue sharing arrangements that are agreed.
If a student develops IP while employed by the University in the capacity of a research assistant or demonstrator then the position is the same as for a member of staff.
The position of students sponsored by an employer or under an arrangement such as a CASE award, or other industry-funded research will be governed by the terms of the grant or support funding.
Normally the University will work with ‘inventors’ or ‘creators’ to manage the IP.
Staff within Research & Enterprise Services can provide expert help and advice.
Therefore if you feel that you have created some IP, please speak to your project supervisor as soon as possible.
Then you and your supervisor should contact Research & Enterprise Services and together we can work within the University IP Policy for Staff to help exploit and manage the IP you have invented as effectively as possible.
In order for students to benefit from the exploitation of IP they will be required to assign their IP to the University (and, once again, Cardiff Met’s IP policy for staff would be used).
Information disclosed to a student during the course of research activities and any results generated during that period (whether or not technical or commercial in nature) may constitute valuable intellectual property and require protection prior to any form of non-confidential disclosure.
It is the responsibility of the student’s supervisor to advise the student as to which results and/or information are to be kept confidential.
If in any doubt, advice should be sought from Research & Enterprise Services.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/entrepreneurship/annual-impact-review:
Measuring the impact that we have on the future prospects of Cardiff Met students is an important part of what we do.
Below you will find links to our annual impact reviews:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/entrepreneurship/contact-us:
You can contact us by:
Email : entrepreneurship@cardiffmet.ac.uk LinkedIn : CardiffMetEnt
​ Postal Address​
Centre for Entrepreneurship Cardiff Metropolitan University Alexander House Excelsior Road Cardiff CF14 3AT​
Our offices are located a short walk from the Llandaff campus at Alexander House.
You're more than welcome at our offices; just let one of us know in advance so we can come downstairs to let you into the building!​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/student-support:
From the start of your journey to the UK, you’ll be introduced to our International Student Support Team through a series of online webinars.
These cover useful topics to help you feel prepared and confident before you travel.
We also offer a visa application checking service to support international applicants.
Our team will welcome you to the UK and guide you through a comprehensive orientation programme, specifically designed to provide international students with essential information to help you settle into a new and exciting life in Cardiff.
We understand that moving to a new country can be daunting with a range of formalities to complete, so our team offer one-to-one support with those initial practical procedures such as opening a bank account, registering with a doctor, making accommodation arrangements, travelling across the city and much more.
Based in the Global Lounge, you can visit us for support throughout the duration of your studies.
We offer ongoing welfare related support and guidance on a range of issues covering immigration, general wellbeing, academic expectations and study skills, as well as providing support to those experiencing more complex personal problems.
We’re here to listen, advise and support on many topics including:
We also offer an exciting social programme throughout the academic year, including a range of student trips to various destinations across the UK and on-campus activities, including the popular Global Week celebration and creative crafting workshops.
These activities provide a fantastic opportunity to connect with the team, create new friendships and make the most of your time at Cardiff Met.
We look forward to welcoming you!

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/attendance-and-engagement-monitoring:
1.1 Institutions holding a UKVI Student Sponsor Licence are required to have a working procedure in place to ensure it can effectively monitor the attendance and engagement of the international students it sponsors.
Student Sponsor obligations are set out in the following document: Student Sponsor Guidance - Doc 2: Sponsorship duties
1.2 At Cardiff Metropolitan University, Global Engagement's Immigration Compliance Team is responsible for the international student engagement monitoring procedure; the analysis of the attendance/engagement data; advising staff and students on the UKVI engagement monitoring requirements and reporting poor attendance and engagement to UKVI.
1.3 The academic schools are responsible for capturing the attendance data for international students throughout their periods of enrolment, for ALL timetabled sessions and non-standard elements of the programmes.
1.4 At the start of every term, the Immigration Compliance Team will communicate the university's engagement monitoring process to all international students, confirming consistent and active engagement is a requirement to comply with the conditions of their student visas.
1.5 The University is required to monitor and review international students' academic engagement according to the requirements set out below:
1.5.1 Band 1 - Study at a higher education provider at RQF level 5 (SCQF 8 and equivalents) and below (Applicable to Cardiff Met students studying HND level, International Foundation Certificate and Pre-sessional English).
Each student in this band is required to attend a minimum of 15 hours of daytime (08:00 to 18:00, Monday to Friday) classroom-based study per week.
Where the student has not reached 85% attendance of their classroom-based study in any given month, the university must review the reason for the student's absence.
The student's record must then be annotated with the reason for the non-attendance and the steps being taken to improve the student's attendance.
Where a student's attendance falls below 70% for three consecutive months, the University must withdraw sponsorship due to lack of academic engagement unless there are exceptional and evidenced reasons for the non-attendance (e.g.
illness).
1.5.2 Band 2 - Study at a higher education provider at RQF 6 (SCQF 9/10 and equivalents), RQF 7 (Taught and Research) (SCQF 11 and equivalents), and RQF8 (SCQF 12 and equivalents)
Applicable to ALL Cardiff Met degree seeking students (UG, PG ) Sponsors are required to have a single academic engagement policy in place that applies consistently to international students across the institution.
(This can be the same policy that applies to home students, although there is no requirement or expectation that home students are to be included).
The policy may differentiate between levels of study (for instance, doctoral and masters by research students may have their engagement recorded in a different way to undergraduates).
1.5.3 Where the structure of a programme/elements of a course do not require regular attendance at timetabled sessions, provisions must be in place to monitor engagement.
For example, where students are:
1.5.4 Academic engagement monitoring is not required during university vacations or the post-study period (usually the final 2-4 months of the visa validity after completion of study).
1.5.5 Students will be withdrawn from their course following 10 consecutive missed contact points.​
2.1 At Cardiff Met, currently Band 1 students all study at the English Language Training Centre (ELTC).
The in-person attendance is monitored daily by the ELTC staff and students are encouraged to maintain consistent attendance to ensure successful course completion and to meet the requirements of their visas.
2.2 Registers are completed at the start of each class and each opportunity for attendance is marked.
For example, on a Monday there may be a maximum of three possible attendances.
2.3 This data is used to calculate overall attendance for the week for each student.
If a student is frequently away from class, they are asked to provide evidence for their absence e.g.
medical certificate.
If there are compassionate or diplomatic reasons (e.g.
a meeting with their embassy) academic staff are permitted to authorise a discretionary, short period of absence.
The ELTC provides a monthly report to the Immigration Compliance Team which confirms the attendance for all the students.
For study below degree level, the UKVI requires students to have over 85% attendance and where this falls to 70% or less for 3 consecutive months, students will be withdrawn from the course.
2.4 The Immigration Compliance Team will make contact with the students via email to determine the reason for non-engagement and offer support to re-engage with their studies.
If the student does not re-engage a second email is sent explaining the importance of engaging with their studies and consequences of doing so and the impact on their student visa.
A phone call is also made, to check on their welfare and emphasise the importance of attendance.
Where a student does not respond and/or re-engage and the student has an attendance percentage below 75% for three consecutive months with no known mitigating circumstances, the student is withdrawn, change of enrolment status reported to the UKVI and the student is sent an email to confirm that action has been taken along with advice about returning overseas.
3.1 Cardiff Metropolitan University util ises its own purpose-built system to track and monitor the attendance and engagement of its international students.
The collection of data is facilitated by each academic school.
3.2 For standard taught courses, the lecturer will generate a four-letter code at the beginning of each lecture/seminar and display a QR code linked to the attendance monitoring system.
3.3 The students scan the QR code via their phone and enter the four-letter code to record their attendance at the session.
The registrations in smaller session can be entered manually by the lecturer so no code will be generated.
3.4 On a weekly basis, the Immigration Compliance Team will extract attendance data directly from the online Attendance Monitoring System and contact international students whose attendance is of concern, in accordance with the Student Communication Plan (see below).
3.5 One contact point equates to attendance at one timetabled class per week.
An absence is recorded if the student misses every expected contact point in a week.
3.6 Where a student does not respond and/or re-engage, further attempts are made to contact the student at trigger points (shown in the table below).
3.7 Where a student fails to re-engage and they are recorded as absent for 10 consecutive contact points, with no known mitigating circumstances, the student is withdrawn, the change of enrolment status reported to the UKVI and the student is sent an email to confirm that action has been taken along with advice about returning overseas.
4.1 As some programmes/elements of programmes do not require student attendance at timetabled seminars or lectures, alternative means of collecting data are required.
It is essential that international student attendance and engagement data is captured throughout the period of enrolment (excluding official vacations).
Details of how data must be captured for each untimetabled period can be found below.
4.1.1 Work Placements
Students on work placements are required to complete and return a weekly, signed timesheet to the School administration office, to confirm they have been present at the work placement.
The designated school administrator will record the information on a work placement attendance spreadsheet, located on the MS Teams site International Student Engagement Monitoring.
The data will be accessed and analysed by the Immigration Compliance Team weekly.
4.1.2 Dissertation/Project
For students undertaking a dissertation/ project, attendance will be monitored via the supervisory meetings.
Students must attend a supervisory meeting or have engaged with their supervisor online or via email at least one time per month during this phase of their studies.
Once the meeting has been completed/contact made between supervisor and student, the supervisor will confirm this to the School Administration Office and the School Administrator will record the data on the Dissertation Attendance Spreadsheet on the dedicated Team site.
4.1.3 PhD Students
PhD student attendance is recorded on the Doctoral Research Manager system.
Supervisors are required to update the DRM system to confirm the student's engagement and progress.
The Immigration Compliance Team will access the records monthly.
Where there are concerns about a student's engagement, The Immigration Compliance Team will contact a member of the School Research Team for further details and communicate with the student where necessary.
4.1.4 Student Union Sabbatical Officers
When International students take on a position as sabbatical officer, this change of circumstance must be reported to UKVI.
During their time as Sabbatical Officer the Chief Executive of the Cardiff Met SU, must inform GE Immigration Compliance Team, of any unauthorised absence or changes to their engagement/position.
Student misses 2 consecutive contact points
Student does not respond and misses 3 consecutive contact points
Email sent to students requesting response within 3 days.
Reasons provided for non-engagement will be addressed and support/advice/referral offered where necessary.
Reminder of immigration conditions and consequences of continued poor attendance issued.
Where welfare concerns are raised, a referral will be made to the Welfare Team to make contact with the student.
Phone call / MS Teams meeting arranged and conversation documented.
School advised of withdrawal.
Withdrawal reported to UKVI.
Email sent to student confirming withdrawal and advised on visa curtailment and next steps.
5.1 Where a new student fails to attend or engage with any taught sessions from the point of enrolment and fails to engage with the Immigration Compliance Team and/or re-engage following email warnings, it will be assumed that the student does not have a genuine intention to study.
In these circumstances, the student will be withdrawn at 7 missed contact points and sponsorship withdrawn.
5.2 Where a student disputes their attendance record after having been withdrawn and reported to UKVI or provided evidence of mitigating circumstances, all evidence should be forwarded to the Immigration Compliance team for review.
The circumstances will be discussed with the Programme Director to determine whether it is feasible for the student to continue with their studies and the UKVI report withdrawn.
6.1 This policy should be read in conjunction with the University's Student Maternity, Parental Support and Adoption Policy.
6.2 The Student Maternity, Parental Support and Adoption Policy is applicable to all students studying at Cardiff Metropolitan University, however additional points relating to international students and their immigration obligations must also be considered.
7.1 Ad hoc attendance and engagement checks are carried out by the Immigration Compliance Team at various points in the academic year.
A member of the team will attend a class and check the number of international students who have self-registered at the lecture/ seminar and take a manual register of the international students to ensure the numbers match.
If there is a discrepancy in the numbers, the online register can be manually amended by the lecturer to reflect the correct number of students present.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/international-project-launched-to-recover-the-hidden-history-of-once-banned-lgbtq-novel-the-emwell-of-lonelinessem.php:
A researcher from Cardiff Metropolitan University is working on an international project led by the University of Exeter, which will focus on the ‘most famous banned novel in LGBTQ+ history’, bringing together generations of readers to uncover how it reached and touched so many people around the world.
The Well of Loneliness , written by British author Radclyffe Hall and often referred to as “the Lesbian Bible”, was banned as obscene in the UK following its publication in 1928.
Now, in the build-up to the centenary of that ban, a team of world-leading experts in late 19th and early 20th-century culture will carry out new research and create the first oral history of the novel’s reception, interviewing 100 readers of the book from different communities and generations to record their interpretations of it.
Funded by a grant of more than £1,000,000 from the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the project, 100 Years of The Well of Loneliness , will run for the next five years.
It will be led by academics Jana Funke , Professor of Modern Literature and Sexuality Studies at the University of Exeter along with Dr Hannah Roche , Senior Lecturer in Twentieth-Century Literature and Culture at the University of York, Dr Sarah Parker , Senior Lecturer in English at Loughborough, and Dr Elizabeth English , Senior Lecturer in English at Cardiff Metropolitan University, including colleagues at The National Archives, and the Harry Ransom Center in Austin, Texas.
They will also work with international archives and heritage specialists to understand how debates around The Well of Loneliness might help to create better engagement and more dialogue around other contentious and controversial histories.
Dr Elizabeth English’s research will focus on national identity, gender, and sexuality, with a particular focus on the significance of Wales and Welsh identity.
Elizabeth said: “A century after Hall’s narrative began to move, inform, inspire, disturb, and disgust readers, the project will, for the first time, trace the extent of its social and cultural impact over the last one hundred years.”
The Well of Loneliness , brought to print by British publisher Jonathan Cape, follows the life of Stephen Gordon, a ‘sexual invert’ who falls in love with another woman and eventually finds temporary happiness with another female partner while serving as an ambulance driver during the First World War.
A campaign against the book was launched soon after its release in 1928, and this culminated in a court ruling that it was obscene.
The judgment removed it from print in the UK until 1949 but did little to stop it from being translated into multiple languages and read around the globe.
“Radclyffe Hall’s The Well of Loneliness is one of the most contested books in LGBTQ+ history,” says project lead Professor Jana Funke.
“It has served as a source of affirmation for generations, resonating with different LGBTQ+ readers, including trans and non-binary individuals.”
Over the span of the research project, the team will examine how the novel came to be published, translated and reinterpreted against this backdrop of legal censorship and social hostility.
The project team will go on to look at the impact that the book has had upon different communities around the world; its representation of domesticity and national identity, including Welsh and Irish identities; and the expression of LGBTQ+ cultures through fashion and photography.
Through a public-facing website, a new short film by award-winning filmmaker Campbell X, and a series of public showcases, displays, workshops, and events, 100 Years of The Well of Loneliness will work to engage, educate, and connect with a wider public audience.
The project team also includes diverse heritage specialist Victoria Iglikowski-Broad from The National Archives.
She said: “The policing of gender and sexuality through censorship, conversely leaves us vital archival traces to interrogate and explore our understanding of how this seminal text was received.
The state response to The Well of Loneliness highlights the fears and opportunities the novel presented.”
The project’s insights into public engagement practice will be shared through a heritage toolkit, co-produced with The National Archives, and a knowledge exchange event aimed at heritage, archive, and museum specialists.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-met-researchers-aim-to-create-bespoke-footwear-for-people-living-with-leprosy-in-india.php:
Researchers from Cardiff Metropolitan University are working with people living with leprosy in India to educate on the importance of appropriate footwear to help improve wound healing, reduce deformities and avoid the risk of amputation.
Following a recent visit to the Village of HOPE, Delhi, India, a 9km2 village which was created for people living with leprosy, Cardiff Met’s podiatry and product design teams are working alongside the HOPE Foundation , part of HOPE Worldwide , a global charity which helps people overcome poverty and homelessness.
The team of researchers from Cardiff Met will provide training on the importance of appropriate footwear to those living with leprosy in the Village of HOPE, their families, local shoe producers and the wider community.
The long-term goal is to establish a design and development facility in the village which can produce bespoke footwear specifically designed to promote dignity, active wound-healing and Charcot Foot stabilisation, which causes feet to deform and collapse most often resulting in hard to heal wounds on the bottom of the foot.
Dr Jane Lewis, Reader in Podiatric and Circulatory Medicine at Cardiff Metropolitan University is leading on the leprosy footwear project: “Contrary to popular belief, leprosy is a curable bacterial disease which requires many months of close contact to catch, but the social stigma still attached to it means that many people are well advanced in their symptoms before they reach out for help.”
Leprosy, also known as Hansen’s disease, is a contagious disease which affects the skin, mucous membranes and nerves, causing discoloration and lumps on the skin and, in severe cases, disfigurement and deformities.
The condition mostly affects people living in tropical Africa and Asia, with 60% of sufferers based in India.
According to the World Health Organisation , more than 200,000 new cases of leprosy are reported every year.
People living with the condition are neuropathic, meaning they have no feeling in their feet so will not always be aware if footwear is causing injury through lack of support in one area, for instance the insole or a tight strap on a shoe that rubs.
Research shows that the degree to which patients require bespoke footwear varies with the severity of the disease.
Dr Lewis continues: “We know that the correct shoes can significantly improve the symptoms, but the lack of education means many people continue to wear standard footwear which does not appropriately support their condition or protect their feet.
Non-standard footwear can also identify the wearer as having leprosy, leading to victimisation.
As a result, many patients continue to wear standard footwear even when it causes them significant injury.
“Our aim by co-producing this bespoke footwear is to create a broader choice of footwear, which will empower and support the individual’s medical and physical needs that they are subsequently happy to wear.”
KS Wungchipem, Director Skill Development North & East at the Hope Foundation, Village of HOPE said: “This initiative is going to be the first time in the history of the Village of HOPE’s project.
Furthermore, we firmly believe that the village’s leprosy patients will greatly benefit from this programme.
“For our patients, having a shoe clinic in their village will be a happy occasion.
It will help them to save time and money.
Additionally, they will have access to a welcoming hassle free shoe clinic centre that they can access in a friendly environment.
The partnership between Cardiff Met University and the HOPE Foundation will significantly alleviate the impoverished communities.”

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2024/cardiff-met-students-nominated-in-wales-media-awards.php:
Three Cardiff Metropolitan University students have been nominated for an honour in the Journalists’ Charity’s Wales Media Awards 2024.
The awards recognise individuals who have demonstrated outstanding commitment and contribution to journalism in Wales in both English and Welsh.
The Cardiff Met students shortlisted in the ‘Student Journalist of the Year’ category include MSc Sport Broadcast degree recent graduate Cian Tookey and Bhavya Doshi and Cameron Hitt, who are current students on the course.
Bhavya Doshi, 25, from Kolkata, India, is due to complete his degree in October 2025 and is already working with Glamorgan Cricket as a Content Executive.
Bhavya said: “It feels really good to be considered for such a prestigious award.
To be recognised by Journalists’ Charity for the Wales Media Awards 2024 is a great achievement personally as a student journalist, especially coming from foreign country to Wales only 12 months ago.
“To be able to fit into the Welsh sporting culture and to develop meaningful articles and videos on Welsh cricket and football throughout my time at university, and to be able to now make a career out of it with a full-time job as Content Executive at Glamorgan Cricket, gives me a sense of satisfaction and pride.”
To enter the Wales Media Awards, students submit three pieces of content from the previous 12 months.
The shortlist is decided by a panel of industry leaders and professional journalists.
Joe Towns, Programme Director and Senior Lecturer on the MSc Sport Broadcast degree at Cardiff Met, said: “Three of the four students shortlisted in the Student Journalist of the Year category at the Wales Media Awards come from our Cardiff Met Sport Broadcast MSc.
In Wales, we have some incredible journalism and media courses at all of our universities, so this is testament to the quality of our students, our teaching, and the level of work they produce.”
“The award ceremony is also a great networking opportunity for students attending – who have all now secured exciting jobs in the industry this year – to meet some of Wales and the UK’s top journalists, and showcase their work as they embark on their careers.
Well done to all of our students who have been shortlisted this year, you have done exceptionally well to get this far in the competition and we wish them every success on the night.”
Cameron Hitt will graduate from Cardiff Met’s MSc Sport Broadcast degree in 2025, he has just started a full-time job as Welsh Boxing’s Content and Communications Officer.
Cian Tookey, 23, graduated from Cardiff Met in July 2024 and is now working as a Content Producer for the Two Circles Agency with clients such as Wimbledon Tennis, World Rugby 7s and Premier League Football.
The winners will be revealed at the awards dinner to be held at Cardiff’s Parkgate Hotel on the evening of Friday, 15th November.
More information can be found on the Journalists’ Charity webpage .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2024/graduate-who-fled-war-torn-syria-with-children-wins-national-award.php:
Inas, who lives in Cardiff and graduated in July 2024, won the Different Past: Shared Futures Award in the Inspire!
Adult Learning Awards 2024.
She received the award at the Coal Exchange Hotel, Cardiff on September 10.
She is one of a dozen award winners.
A highlight of Adult Learners Week in Wales from September 9-15, the awards are co-ordinated by Learning and Work Institute with support from the Welsh Government.
They recognise those who have demonstrated a commitment to never stop learning.
Each Inspire!
winner demonstrates how learning can offer second chances, help create new career opportunities, build confidence and help communities become vibrant and successful.
Responding to her award, Inas said: My joy was indescribable, first because I wanted to deliver a message to every person who was forced by circumstances to change their life and move to another country: it is not the end of the world and we can continue to progress and give everything we have without placing barriers to our progress.
“Secondly, I have won many awards in Syria, and also in the UK, but this one means a lot to me because it relates to the university where I am proud to have obtained my first professional degree in the UK after leaving my country.
I am proud of my affiliation to this university.
The Syrian conflict has killed more than 600,000 people with millions more displaced and still without a place to call home.
Facing an uncertain future in Syria, Inas and her children were left with no option but to seek a safe haven, arriving in Cardiff in 2019 through the United Nations refugee programme.
“I worked in the field of education for 16 years in my beloved Syria, but after the death of my husband and the outbreak of war, my life, and the lives of my children, were under threat, she said.
She rekindled her passion for education, but despite holding a degree in English, it was as a second language and not up to the standard for teaching in Wales.
Therefore, Inas undertook two years of volunteer teaching work to improve her English, before pursuing a return to full-time teaching.
She applied for the Professional Graduate Certificate in Education Post Compulsory Education and Training (PGCE PCET), a requirement for any overseas teacher wanting to enter the British post-16 education system.
Inas’ back story impressed Cardiff Metropolitan University where she was embraced into their inclusive environment with open arms, allowing her to qualify to teach post-16 education and training.
Leanne Davies, Senior Lecturer in PGCE PCET and Preparing to Teach at Cardiff Met, recalls: She was so courageous and offered me an insight into the awful and life changing circumstances that had brought her to Cardiff.
She remained positive throughout and engaged with many tutorials and support mechanisms to continually improve herself and reach the required professional standard to teach in post-16 education.
To support her family and pay for their accommodation, Inas held two part-time jobs, including teaching Arabic at Fayza Arabic Centre, whilst continuing to study.
With support from her mentors, she has completed her formal teaching hours to qualify and now teaches maths to adults at ACT Training, whilst continuing to teach Arabic part-time.
After seeing her country torn apart, Inas describes Cardiff Metropolitan University the University of Sanctuary for being a very diverse and inclusive institution and adds that she will continue her studies to build an even better future for herself and her children.
For adults in Wales keen to start their learning journey, in-person taster courses and online sessions will run throughout September and during Adult Learners Week, with advice and information available locally to inspire people to take up learning as a way of increasing their employability, building life skills and improving quality of life.
Lynne Neagle, Welsh Government Cabinet Secretary for Education, said: The effort, talent and determination on display from all the finalists in this years Inspire!
Adult Learning Awards is truly inspiring.
I am determined that Wales should be a place where everyone has the chance to return to learning and renew their career at whatever stage of life they are at.
Adult Learners Week is a great opportunity to discover your passion for learning or brush up on your existing skills.
Id encourage anyone looking for support or change of direction to look at the support available from Working Wales.
Learning as an adult is not only a great way to improve employability but is also a fantastic opportunity to meet new people, make new friends, as well as boosting self-esteem and confidence.
Joshua Miles, Learning and Work Institute Director, said: I would like to congratulate all the nominees and winners of the 2024 Inspire!
Adult Learner Awards and to thank them for sharing their inspiring stories with us.
They have overcome significant challenges, such as health issues, unemployment, low confidence, or caring responsibilities, and have transformed their lives through learning.
In doing so, they have also inspired others to follow in their footsteps and have made a positive difference to communities across Wales.
Learning is a lifelong journey that can enrich our lives in many ways.
Now more than ever, it is important that we support and celebrate adults in Wales who return to learning later in life in the hope of a brighter future.
To find out whats going on during Adult Learners Week and for personalised advice on your own learning options and the support available, get in touch with Working Wales on 0800 028 4844 or search www.workingwales.gov.wales.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2024/celebrating-success-syrian-refugee-inas-alali-graduates-from-cardiff-metropolitan-university.php:
A Cardiff Metropolitan University student has graduated this week, almost five years to the day she arrived in Wales as a Syrian refugee.
Inas Alali arrived in the UK with her two young children under the UN Refugee Resettlement Programme in July 2019, after escaping Syria for Lebanon.
Her transition to Cardiff was supported by the UK Government, a process that involved rigorous interviews and relocation logistics.
Despite the initial barriers, Inas quickly adapted, driven by her passion for education and her previous experience as a maths tutor in Syria.
“When I arrived in the UK, everything was ready for me,” Inas reflects.
“I started working and integrating into society.
Education was always my goal.”
Her educational journey at Cardiff Met began after years of preparation, including improving her English proficiency through courses and examinations like GCSE and IELTS.
Inas chose Cardiff Met for its welcoming environment and strong reputation in professional education.
“Cardiff Met has been an amazing place for me,” Inas said.
“From the very first day, I felt proud to be part of this university.
The support I received from my tutor, Leanne Davies, and the entire community here has been invaluable.”
Having graduated along with her classmates from Cardiff School or Education and Social Policy on Monday (15 July), Inas is now working full time with ACT Training.
Leanne Davies, Senior Lecturer in PGCE PCET and Preparing to Teach at Cardiff Met, recalls her dedication and impact on the student community: “Inas has shown exceptional determination and kindness throughout her studies.
She has been an asset to the School of Education & Social Policy, our university, and her success is truly well-deserved.
“She shared her story with me during a very difficult tutorial at the start of her journey on the PGCE PCET at Cardiff Metropolitan University and I listened to this strong and determined woman, battling against policies, politics, cultural differences and personal grief and against all these odds, she stood steadfast and committed to her studies, her children, and to her dream of teaching adults in the UK.
“I am in awe of her resilience and positivity and wish her every success in continuing her teaching journey at ACT training.”
Inas has been supported by RefuAid, a charity which helps those who have been forced to flee their homes in a number of ways, including access to higher education.
Emma Sinclair, CEO of EnterpriseAlumni, who is a leading supporter of RefuAid, travelled to Cardiff to see her friend cross the stage.
She said: “Seeing Inas graduate today is a testament to the power of education and the resilience of the human spirit.
I am honoured to have played a small part in Inas and her family’s incredible journey thus far, turning dreams into reality.
Her determination and success inspire us all and remind us why supporting skilled refugees to retrain in their chosen field via RefuAid is so vital.
Congratulations, Inas, on this remarkable achievement.
We are immensely proud of you and excited to see the impact you will undoubtedly make in the world.”
Inas’s family, renowned for their commitment to education, continues to inspire her.
Despite her parents remaining in Syria due to their attachment to their homeland, Inas’s children, Aza and Abd Alrazak, have thrived in their new environment in Cardiff, embracing their identity as part of the UK community.
Reflecting on her upcoming graduation, Inas said “It is an amazing, amazing feeling to graduate.
“Cardiff Met is an amazing place.
I did say to Leanne on the first day I attended this course that I’m so proud to be a part of this university.
“I still have this feeling.
I’m so proud of being a student at this university.”

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2024/international-cardiff-met-student-pursues-dream-to-study-in-the-uk-and-use-education-to-change-lives-back-home-in-nigeria.php:
“Start with what you have and grow to get to where you want to be,” is the advice from Chisimdi Okoh, an international student studying for a Master’s in Data Science at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Having always dreamt of coming to the UK to study, Chisimdi now plans to use what he has learnt to change lives at home in Nigeria.
“My father taught me to start with what you have, and to grow to get to where you want to be.
To me, that growth is education and learning,” said Chisimdi.
Having started a finance club for young people in his local community, he went on to turn this into a business.
“I want to continue improving financial education, especially for those who need it the most,” Chisimdi continued.
Inspired by the positive difference he was making in Nigeria, Chisimdi came to the UK to enhance his data skills to help others manage their finances.
The friendly reception he received in the UK has led him to volunteer with Cardiff Met’s Centre for Entrepreneurship and new international students to help them settle in to life in the UK.
“The biggest challenge for me was adapting to a new culture...
and the weather!” Chisimdi said.
But he is grateful for the warm welcome he received when he arrived.
“I’d read a lot about how diverse the UK is.
So, I knew to expect it.
It blows my mind how the UK welcomes all these people and makes them feel so at home.”
Chisimdi is part of Universities UK International’s #WeAreInternational: Transforming Lives campaign, working with students from around the world, based in UK universities in towns and cities across the country.
The campaign is dedicated to highlighting the contributions international students are making to the UK and their communities, during their studies.
Anna Dukes, Director of Global Engagement at Cardiff Metropolitan University, said: “It’s important that we recognise both the economic and cultural benefits international students bring not only to our universities, but also to local communities.
Our international students enrich the learning and teaching experience on campus, helping all our students understand other cultures and the value of working across cultures.
“In turn, our international students gain a quality educational experience that they take back to their respective countries around the world, contributing to the development of global links for the UK in both business and research.
Both our international and UK students graduate with global networks that will benefit their future careers.”
International students make a huge contribution in their local communities and beyond, bringing in a £41 billion to the UK each year, meaning on average, each of the 650 parliamentary constituencies in the UK is £58 million better off – equivalent to approximately £560 per citizen.
In Wales alone, international students contribute £1.43 billion to the regional economy.
Jamie Arrowsmith, Director of UUKi said: “It’s never felt more important to acknowledge the important contributions that international students make to their university and local communities, and to the UK more broadly.
It’s not just about the economic side of it – international students give back through cultural exchange, volunteering, and so much more.
We’re proud to be sharing their stories through the latest phase of the #WeAreInternational campaign.”
More information on the #WeAreInternational: Transforming Lives campaign can be found on the Universities UK webpage .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/visa-application-checking-service:
Cardiff Met are now offering a new service which is free to our prospective students, who are planning to submit a Student visa application, to commence their studies at our University.
The service will include:
This service is offered by fully trained immigration staff members, who will be able to advise you whether your documents meet the Student Visa requirements.
If you wish to use this service please send a message via CAS Shield.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/refund-terms-and-conditions:
Date Reviewed: January 2023
We recognise that student circumstances may change at either application stage or post-enrolment resulting in either a withdrawal of admission application or withdrawal from the academic programme.
As such, this process has been developed based on the University’s Withdrawal and Fees process and has been devised particularly for international students.
Cardiff Metropolitan University, in line with the responsibilities of its UKVI sponsor licence, is required to notify UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) of any applicant who has been assigned a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) and who does not enrol, as well as any significant change of circumstances affecting students on a student visa during their studies.
This includes if a student suspends studies, withdraws or is withdrawn from their programme or discontinues their studies with the University.
An applicant or student may request a refund of deposit or tuition fees already paid, should they make a decision to withdraw their application, or for some other reason are not able to continue with their studies.
Student refund requests must be made by the individual student using the email address used to register their initial application to study at the University.
The refund request must be sent to internationalrefund@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
The international student deposit is the sum of money an applicant pays to the University when accepting their offer of study and prior to receiving a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), where applicable.
For Applicants, the deposit is only refundable in the following circumstances:
No refund of deposits or fees will be made to an Applicant who has behaved fraudulently e.g., presented documents or made a statement found by UK Visas and Immigration or the University to be false to obtain a visa or false qualification documents to gain entry to a course.
a.
Exceptional Circumstances
Requests for deposit refunds may be considered in exceptional circumstances at the University’s discretion if an applicant is unable to travel to the UK due to:
In each case supporting documents will be required from an appropriate professional and refunds of this nature will require a longer time to process.
No application for a refund will be considered unless withdrawal has been confirmed by the Programme Director and recorded in the University Student System.
As outlined in paragraph 2 above the University is obliged to report any Student visa holder to the UKVI if they are withdrawn from their course.
This will result in visa curtailment and students are required to return to their home country.
Students must return to their home country within 3 months of the date of withdrawal and provide evidence of this.
Evidence must be in the form of:
– Boarding pass – Exit stamp in passport
No refund of fees will be made to a Student who has:
Liability for fees will depend on the period of study as follows:
If the refund is approved:
For further enquiries about refunds, in the first instance please email: internationalrefund@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Concerns about a particular refund decision can also be raised via the University Complaints Policy and Procedure.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/fees-and-finance/bursaries-and-scholarships/alumni-discount:
The Alumni Discount offers a 20% discount on Cardiff Met courses for previous graduates who are enrolling onto postgraduate programmes from September 2025.
The discount will be automatically applied if you meet all the following requirements :
If your financial circumstances change, for example if a financial contribution is received towards your fees from a sponsor during your course, which lasts more than one year, the Alumni Discount will not be awarded for the subsequent years.
You are not eligible for the award if you are:
Please see the Alumni Discount Terms and Conditions for full eligibility.
It is important that you read the terms and conditions to fully understand your rights and responsibilities with respect to the Alumni Discount.
The discount will be automatically applied to fees, for those that meet the eligibility criteria, provided you are enrolled and have not withdrawn within the first two weeks of the course.
Yes, the alumni discount is available to Home, EU and International graduates.
For EU and International graduates from Cardiff Met, please see the International Scholarships pages and 'Alumni Scholarship'.
Yes, if you meet all the eligibility criteria details above, then the discount will be automatically applied to your fees.
Please make sure you apply to the new course using the same login details as you did for your previous studies, so we can keep all your records under the same student number.
If you have any issues with this, please contact scholarship@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
You are self-funded if you are paying all of your tuition fees yourself.
This can include financial support from a friend or relative, and/or Postgraduate Loans from Welsh or English Government.
There is no time limit in relation to when the qualification was completed.
Yes, you are, so long you meet the rest of the eligibility criteria.
Yes, you will, so long you meet the rest of the eligibility criteria.
Yes, the Alumni Discount can be awarded to you again, provided there is no bad academic standing or debts to the University.
Yes, the discount will be applied to the costs incurred if you withdraw.
Please refer to the information on our fee regulation pages in relation to the percentage of costs which are incurred if a student withdraws.
You will need to plan well in advance how you are going to pay your tuition fees and support yourself while you study your postgraduate programme.
Our Money Advice Team can offer you support and information on a variety of postgraduate funding sources.
If you have any queries relating to the Alumni Discount, please contact Admissions on scholarship@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/fees-and-finance/international-scholarships:
Scholarships for International Students studying at Cardiff Met.
​​We believe all students deserve the opportunity to enhance their career prospects, irrespective of their financial situation.
That’s why we offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships for our international students.
All International applicants will be automatically considered for our scholarships and will not be expected to complete a separate application.
Scholarships are confirmed to applicants at point of offer and full details of scholarship eligibility and exceptions can be found in the Terms & Conditions below.
For students commencing their studies in academic year 25/56 our scholarships are:
To be eligible for a scholarship, applicants must accept their offer by the deposit deadline.
Undergraduate, Alumni, MBA and Vice Chancellor Scholarships, please note:
Our international student scholarships do not apply to:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/fees-and-finance/us-federal-loan-scheme:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is a participating institution in the William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan Program.
The US Department of Education loans money directly to students via their schools.
We offer assistance to students (U.S.
citizens only) seeking loans to study at either undergraduate or postgraduate level at the University.
When you apply to study, we keep you informed at each step of the process by email.
These web pages outline the loan types available, when and how to apply for them and how they will be disbursed.
The information in this section is relevant to prospective students as well as current undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is an eligible Foreign School to administer Title IV Direct loans to eligible US students studying undergraduate / postgraduate programmes at Llandaff and Cyncoed Campus.
The Title IV Direct Loans available to US students are:
If you are a graduate, you can apply for a PLUS loan in your own right.
If you are an undergraduate student you cannot apply for the PLUS, but your parents can apply on your behalf.
PLUS loans are credit based.
Information and advice on how to apply is available on our Eligibility and Loan Application Process pages.
Please read these information pages before starting the loan application process.
You may find that the UK process is very different to previous applications made at US institutions.
The sum of your Federal and any Private loans cannot exceed the Cost of Attendance, so you should think carefully should you decide to take out both loans.
Also check your loan limits depending on whether you are an undergraduate or graduate student.
Federal student aid services offered by the Department of Education and its student loan services are free.
Such services include:
Please be aware of so-called debt relief companies.
These debt relief companies may utilise sophisticated strategies to target unsuspecting borrowers and inappropriately use the Department of Education’s logo or other identifying information to give the impression that they are working with or for the US Government.
These companies may also state or imply that the company is working with a post-secondary institution to provide benefit to student loan borrowers, so please be extra vigilant, as students do not need to pay for loan benefits for Federal student loans.
There are four warning signs of third party debt relief companies that student loan borrowers should avoid, including:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is required by US federal law to define and enforce standards of satisfactory academic progress (SAP) on students who wish to receive US federal Title IV funding (subsidised, unsubsidised or PLUS Direct Loans).
US Federal regulations require that you must be enrolled and making satisfactory academic progress (SAP) in order to be eligible to receive Title IV loans.
All students in respect of Title IV Funding at Cardiff Metropolitan University will be reviewed prior to each Title IV loan disbursement and at the end of each payment period, to ensure SAP is being maintained.
SAP is assessed as follows:
Enrolment Status: All student must be enrolled at least 50%
Academic Progress : Students must achieve minimum standards as required by the Academic School and supervisor/tutor, and must maintain a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0 GPA equivalent to 40-50% minimum marks at Cardiff Metropolitan University, and academic standing consistent with graduation requirements.
Postgraduate Research Students must meet all university progress deadlines, plus any written deadlines agreed by the supervisor.
The supervisor must agree that progress with research is satisfactory for SAP to be achieved.
Should a student's average drop below the 40-50% mark, and progress against university requirements not met, the student will be given a Financial Aid warning until the next disbursement by which time their grades will be expected to have improved and met the required level.
If the student achieves the requirements, they will be placed in good standing for financial aid.
If not, the student will be suspended for the purpose of financial aid.
Students must progress through their course at a pace which ensures that they will graduate within the maximum timeframe.
The maximum timeframe for completion is 150% of the standard, published timeframe for a course.
You must also be studying at least half-time in order to be eligible for federal loans.
This is explained further below:
Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught student's Pace:
A programme of study must be complete in no more than 150% of the standard, published timeframe for the specified programme.
A student should maintain a minimum cumulative completion rate of two thirds of the credits attempted to ensure the programme of study will be completed within the maximum time frame allowed.
Credits or courses transferred from another institution will count towards the student's final degree and will be considered in the evaluation of the completion rate standards, but this does not affect the calculation of the grade point average.
Postgraduate Research Students:
This includes time for writing a thesis and viva extension.
This time scale includes any previous period of study at other universities for the same programme.
Full details of the SAP process and the procedures to be followed if a student fails to meet SAP requirements are outlined in our SAP ​Policy .
Different loan types and amounts are available depending on the course you applying to.
Further information can be found on the Loan Type page which you can find from the main menu.
This is a long process.
Your completed FAFSA must be received by 01 September in order for us to be able to process it for payment on the first disbursement date.
Any applications made throughout the academic year must be received at least one calendar month before the next disbursement date.
Please note however that we cannot guarantee that applications will be processed within these timescales especially if there are outstanding issues with your loan application, so the sooner we receive your FAFSA the smoother the processing will be.
Remember, you will also need proof of funding for your visa application, and this cannot be sent to you until your loans have been fully certified and originated.
You can find a step-by-step guide to the application process here .
If you would like to find out more about how and when you will receive your Title IV federal loan disbursements, please click here .
The US government requires institutions which offer federal student loans to disclose the following consumer information: ​​​ Consumer Information Disclosure .
Download our Leave of Absence Policy (only applicable to PhD students).
Cardiff Metropolitan University does not currently process 1098T Forms for its US students.
For any queries on this, please contact USLoans@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Please see our Loan Application Process pages for our application steps.
You can apply for your loan from October 1st each year for the following academic year e.g.
1st October 2023 for the academic year 2024/25.
However, applications will need to be received a minimum of one calendar month before the next disbursement date to receive funds on that disbursement date.
This applies to the first disbursement date as well as to any applications made throughout the year.
The disbursement dates are normally Scheduled for October, January and May.
The exact dates will be confirmed in your Funding Notification Letter.
It is your responsibility to ensure that a complete loan application is submitted in a timely manner, as the timescale for processing will increase if individual queries need investigation first.
We cannot guarantee that applications will be approved within the four week timescale if there are outstanding matters relating to the loan(s).
There are several steps to completing a loan application after completing your FAFSA.
As a foreign school, we are not notified when you complete your FAFSA and so therefore have to check periodically on the US systems.
Remember, you must complete all of the steps on our Loan Application Process pages in order to notify us that you are applying for a loan.
If you have not found the information you are looking for, please email the US Federal Team at USLoans@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call (+44 29 2041 6168).
​(Monday to Friday, between 9am and 4pm, UK time).
US Department of Education: (202) 377 3168 or (213) 345 2104
Full information about the loan process can be found on the Federal Student Aid website .
Click here for the FAFSA website .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/fees-and-finance/us-private-student-loans:
p>Students who are unable to take out US Federal loans, or who do not meet the criteria for a US Federal loan, can borrow from private lenders in the US.
We advise that if you are eligible for US Federal Loans , you investigate these fully before applying for a US private student loan, as US federal loans are often cheaper and most American students are eligible for them.
Please refer to our US Federal Loans section for further information.
Please note that US private student loans do not enable you to borrow more funds than US federal loans as the total borrowing for any combination of loans cannot exceed the total of the standardised Cardiff Metropolitan University Cost of Attendance for your chosen programme at the University.
Cardiff Metropolitan University will work with whichever private lender you decide to use, however, please be aware that Sallie Mae is the only lender we are currently aware of that is willing to lend to students at a Foreign School.
Private loan applications with Sallie Mae must not exceed 180 days between the application date and disbursement date.
Therefore for loan applications for the new academic year (which will normally have an earliest disbursement date of 2nd October, do not make an application to Sallie Mae any earlier than the 1st May, however please do get in touch with the US Loan Team at usloans@cardiffmet.ac.uk if you have any queries at all before this date.
Sallie Mae is not a preferred lender and this does not represent a preferred lender arrangement.
Global Education Management Services can also offer support in applying for the right Sallie Mae loan for you, shall you wish to choose them as your lender.
Their site is specifically designed for students at foreign schools, and they now have new products available, including the parent loan for undergradaute and graduate students.
You can find more information on their website: https://myglobaled.com/student-loans/
You are advised to compare the terms, charges, and interest rates before taking out a private loan.
You can find here a quick comparison guide to federal v's private loans - https://myglobaled.com/federal-vs-private-loan/
If you wish to apply for a private US student loan, email Cardiff Met's US Loan Team at usloans@cardiffmet.ac.uk for a Cost of Attendance worksheet and other instructions, before applying to your chosen loan provider.
US Federal and private student loans for all US students are administered by Cardiff Met's US Loan Team.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/accommodation/accommodation-faqs:
At Cardiff Met, we understand the importance of feeling secure and comfortable in your new home while you study.
Here are answers to some frequently asked questions (FAQs) about accommodation for international students.
Unfortunately, the answer is no.
All rooms offered by Cardiff Met are single study bedrooms and are therefore not suitable accommodation for students living with children and family members.
The Global Student Advisory Service can offer advice on how to find more appropriate privately rented accommodation.
The average cost of private accommodation, depending on the type of property, ranges from approximately £390-£1,000+ per month.
(excluding energy bills, these are usually paid separately).
We understand some students choose to live with friends or relatives in order to save money on accommodation costs.
The University recommends that all students live within a one hour commute of Cardiff.
If your accommodation is located outside of this area, please be aware that you could face many difficulties including:
You will be studying a full-time course so your classes could be taught every day between Monday and Friday – it is not possible for your timetable to be changed.
As per the immigration obligations attached to your student visa, you will be expected the attend all classes.
As required by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI), the University will closely monitor your attendance and engagement on your course.
Living too far away from Cardiff will not be an acceptable reason for not attending classes.
Continued poor attendance could result in the University withdrawing you from your course, and this will be reported to UKVI and your student visa will be cancelled.
It is not advisable to try to arrange accommodation in the private sector prior to arrival as students must be sure that the accommodation suits their needs before signing a legally binding contract.
It is vital that you book temporary accommodation before your arrival in Cardiff.
If you would like help securing temporary accommodation please email internationalarrival@cardiffmet.ac.uk and the team will provide you with some guidance on how and where to book your temporary accommodation.
If you live in Cardiff Met halls of residence, contents insurance is included.
Should you choose to live in the private sector, we recommend that you get contents insurance for your belongings.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international/work-abroad-at-cardiff-met-:
Staff at our partner universities can work for up to a week at Cardiff Met, gaining valuable career experience in the friendly, vibrant capital of Wales.
Become a part of the Cardiff Met community through our staff exchange, where you can refresh your thinking, develop your international network and discover new ways of working.
And it all takes place in the dynamic, welcoming city of Cardiff.
This opportunity is open to members of staff working at our partner universities.
Not sure if that applies to you?
Contact your university’s staff exchange or mobility team to find out if there is a partnership with us in place.
Email incomingexchange@cardiffmet.ac.uk , letting us know which school or department you’d like to work in and for how long.
You can spend anywhere from two to five days here.
Please also let us know what type of work or job shadowing you would like to do.
We’ll then assess your request to make sure it meets our eligibility criteria, which varies depending on where you’d like to work.
After that we’ll forward your request to the relevant school or department for review.
Once they’ve made their decision, we’ll be in touch to let you know.
If your request is accepted, we’ll prepare the necessary documentation and offer all the support you need to make your time at Cardiff Met as rewarding and memorable as possible.
Please email incomingexchange@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international/global-outreach-projects/b-international:
Capacity-building projects in the field of higher education, are transnational cooperation projects, based on multilateral partnerships, primarily between higher education institutions from Programme and eligible Partner Countries.
The aim of these projects is to support eligible Partner Countries to:
Building Internationalisation in Pakistan (B-International) is Cardiff Met’s first Key Action 2 Capacity Building Coordinating Project which has been successful as part of the 2019 Call for Proposal.
More information on the B-International Project can be found here .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/international-students/fees-and-finance/international-scholarships/sanctuary-award:
Applications for Sanctuary Scholarship for entry to the University for September 2025 are now closed.
Please check back in the Spring of 2026 for our September 2026 intake.
In 2018, Cardiff Metropolitan University became the first university in Wales to be recognised as a University of Sanctuary .
This is as a result the University’s commitment to ensuring it is a welcoming, safe and friendly environment for people who have an irregular migration status and for providing opportunities and support to allow forced migrants, equal access to higher education.
The University has proudly offered Sanctuary Award scholarships since 2017.
These include a full fee waiver for each year of the course, plus financial support toward study costs (e.g., travel, books, etc).
This year, for September 2025 we have scholarships available for undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to providing equal opportunities for people seeking sanctuary in the UK and supporting them to meet their full potential and ambitions.
Please see below for details of the application process and eligibility criteria.
Read more about the Cardiff Sanctuary Award .
Cardiff Met Sanctuary Award gave me such an amazing opportunity to continue my education when I was living in absolute uncertainty and when so many doors were closed on me.
It would have been impossible to embark on my PhD journey today if it wasn’t for your great help.
Thank you so much for making my dreams come true.
- Cardiff Met Sanctuary Award Recipient 2017/18
All applicants must meet all of the following criteria to be considered for the Cardiff Met Sanctuary Award:
You are one of the following:
AND
Applicants must meet ALL of these strict eligibility criteria and be in a position to verify their circumstances in order apply.
Applicants who do not meet all the criteria will not be considered for the scholarship.
For 2025 entry, there will be undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships available.
Each scholarship includes:
Please check back in the Spring 2026 for our September 2026 intake.
Please note that this is a competitive process and there are limited scholarships available, consequently not all applications will be successful.
Application deadline for September 2025 applicants is 1st July 2025.
The successful applicants will be notified of their scholarship award by the end of August.
If you would like some advice or clarification on making an application, please do not hesitate to contact us at: sanctuary@cardiffmet.ac.uk or call 02920 416494.
Nasrin Ali Mohammed
"My name is Nasrin Ali Mohammed, I am 35 years old; from the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
I have been living in the UK for nearly eight years.
Before arriving in the UK, I did a Bachelor's degree in Arabic language at the University of Sulaimani.
I worked full-time as a teacher in a secondary school, until November 2007.
In May 2011, I arrived in Britain and settled in Cardiff, as my husband gained a scholarship to study his PhD at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
However, due to several problems such as cultural differences, language, finance, family obligation (as I have two children) and my husband's study, I had no opportunity to study and develop my career.
Among these problems, lack of understanding of English language was my major concern to pursue and develop my career.
I knew that learning English language is not easy but it is necessary.
So, to overcome this barrier, I gradually started doing several short English courses such as ESOL, especially after my husband finished his study.
Although, these courses were not enough to reach my ultimate goal which was studying at university, I took part in some training courses such as Child Psychology, Managing Child Behaviour and, the most recent one, Engendering Change course which were delivered by Cardiff Council.
These courses played a significant role not only to improve my English, but also created a chance to understand the education system here better and shaped the way I saw the world, specifically the way I thought about education, culture….etc.
My children going to school full time, support and encouragement from my husband and knowing new and different people provided invaluable opportunities to find some paid and unpaid jobs.
These jobs allowed me to interact with many different children and adults, of varying ages and cultures across a range of different backgrounds.
Specifically, my understanding of the teaching profession has increased through carrying out work placements at two different primary schools as an assistant teacher and organizer.
I was working as a volunteer at a primary school; all this led to me seeking an academic course to enrich my experience.
Consequently, in mid-2017 I applied to study a Masters in Education at Cardiff Metropolitan University but I was told I would not be given a place until I got at least a 6.0 score in IELTS.
Although, I found it difficult, I was directed to a community centre where Cardiff Metropolitan Widening Access provides training for people who need Academic IELTS training and testing.
At that centre, I met several dedicated teachers and tutors who helped us not only to pass the test but also widened our worldview.
I am pretty sure without their support and encouragement it would not be possible to overcome such obstacles.
As a result, I passed the test and was given an unconditional offer to study Masters in Education at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
I have to admit that the financial difficulty remained problematic at that time.
Fortunately, I found a scholarship called the Sanctuary Award by Cardiff Metropolitan University.
As a result, I applied and won the scholarship.
That was a fantastic chance to go to university and start my Masters.
The Sanctuary Award scholarship waived all the tuition fees plus gave some extra help.
Now I am at the beginning of my study which is Masters in Education.
Finally, I would like to thank everybody who helped me succeed in achieving my goals, I will tell them your support and assistance is unforgettable and undeniable.
I really appreciate your assistance, motivation and encouragement.
I would like to remind those reading this story, please always be positive, realise your potential and never give up.
In short, why wait for the opportunity, create one by yourself!"
(Anonymous)
"I`m so glad that I was accepted to study MSc course under the Sanctuary Scholarship scheme at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
This opportunity helped me a lot from the financial aspect as well as improving and developing more skills such as; technical and soft skills.
My time at the university was fantastic and I feel that it has gone past quick, I will always miss it.
I built great relationship with students and tutors that allowed me to finalize my master's degree smoothly.
MSc in Information Technology Management with Distinction is the degree that I have gained as part of the Sanctuary Scholarship.
As a result, I currently work in cybersecurity field at one of the UK universities, and in the future, I'm looking to expand my knowledge by continuing my studies into a PhD level.
I believe that I wouldn`t be where I`m now without the scholarship opportunity, as it has opened a lot of doors to me, I do really appreciate it.
Overall, I would like to thank Natalie Buckland the Head of Global Student Advisory Service and everyone including tutors and staff at Cardiff Metropolitan University for their enormous help and support that I have received during my studies.
All of them have done an amazing job by making sure that I received all the support that I needed to complete the course successfully."
Omima
"I was forced to move from my country, Sudan to the United Kingdom in September of 2017.
In Sudan I spent many years studying and practicing within the field of biomedical research.
Since I arrived in Cardiff, I have concentrated on acclimatising to the UK and attending English classes.
I explored several options and believed that continuing my education would be the best thing I could do to improve my employment prospects within my existing field.
I chose the Biomedical Science Masters course as it would enable me to use my existing skills, knowledge and background whilst giving me a qualification that is recognised in the UK.
Nevertheless, two obstacles faced me: The financial support to cover the master's fee and the English language requirements.
Fortunately, with the support of my support-worker Simon Murry from Journey 2 work organisation, Cardiff GOV.UK, I joined the free IELTS preparation classes run by Cardiff Metropolitan university, designed for international students.
Also, Simon and I applied for most refugees and asylum seekers scholarships across the UK.
Luckily, I got the Sanctuary award from Cardiff Met, a university in a town that I used to and settled in.
Throughout my studying I had some difficulties as the British educational system varied from the Sudanese system.
However, the Cardiff-Met international office, provided me with the right help.
Moreover, during the lockdown in 2020 I had further ongoing support from Student Services through the chaplaincy.
After I finished my degree Student Services also offered me many webinars and one to one meetings about C.V writing, creating a LinkedIn account, and how to handle jobs interviews.
Completing this course qualified me to fulfil my potential as a competent and experienced laboratory scientist and allowed me to have my current job at PerkinElmer pharmaceutical company.
In summary, the Sanctuary award gave me the opportunity to regain a big part of my identity which I had lost by having to move to the UK."
Kadi Abdul
"I was extremely fortunate, and one of the most wonderful things I received was a sanctuary scholarship from Cardiff Met University in 2020.
This award was a source of encouragement and motivation for me, and I will never forget Mrs.
Natalie's role and support for her attention to detail, constant follow-up on the situation, and continuous assistance and support, whether psychological or mental, in addition to personal support.
If we find someone who assists us in our times of need, we will be able to rediscover our inner strength.
This opportunity inspired me to be enthusiastic about my studies and achieve my academic goals.
I would like to thank Cardiff Met University (my lovely university) for this great opportunity and to support refugees who have been through serious issues that forced them to leave their families and countries to start a new life.
I consider this scholarship as a first step to a bright future in the UK.
I obtained merit in MSc Human Resources Management last year and now I'm planning to study PhD in the coming years."
Bushra
"My name is Bushra and I was awarded scholarship at Cardiff Metropolitan university for Masters of Research in Biomedical Science.
I had a break of 5 years in my studies because of being a full time mom.
After my daughter started full time school I thought of going back to my dream journey of completing my education.
Dreaming about something and actually doing that in practical life are two different things.
I had to think about finances.
During my search for funding I came across Sanctuary awards.
After looking deep into that I figured out that I can apply for that.
So, I started application and I was uncertain if I could ever be successful but there we are!!
I was selected for the award.
It was really great experience and a hope for my next step in my life.
The staff in the university was really helpful, all the teachers were cooperating and helping.
I really enjoyed learning and now I am a graduate in Biomedical Science.
It is great achievement which I could never achieve without this scholarship."

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil:
Gyda hanes rhagorol o safbwynt ymchwil cymhwysol, wedi'i gefnogi gan sylfaen gref o arbenigedd ac ysgolheictod uwch, mae ein hymchwil yn effeithio ar fusnes, diwydiant, yr economi, cymdeithas a'n cymunedau.
Yn ymarfer asesu ymchwil diwethaf Llywodraeth y DU (REF 2021) dangosodd Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd alluoedd ymchwil eithriadol, gyda 70% o’n cyflwyniad cyffredinol wedi’i raddio’n Ardderchog yn Rhyngwladol neu’n Arwain y Byd.
Mae REF 2021 yn diffinio effaith fel effaith, newid neu fudd i’r economi, cymdeithas, diwylliant, polisi neu wasanaethau cyhoeddus, iechyd, yr amgylchedd neu ansawdd bywyd, y tu hwnt i’r byd academaidd.
Canfuwyd bod effaith Met Caerdydd yn 80% yn Rhagorol yn Rhyngwladol neu’n Arwain y Byd.
Cymuned ymchwil ffyniannus wedi'i gynllunio i ysbrydoli arloesedd.
Rydym yn darparu cyfleusterau o'r radd flaenaf, mannau cydweithredol, a chymorth ariannol i rymuso ymchwil sy'n cael effaith.
Datblygwch eich arbenigedd gyda gradd ymchwil ym Met Caerdydd.
Gweithiwch ochr yn ochr ag academyddion blaenllaw ac arbenigwyr yn y diwydiant mewn amgylchedd ymchwil deinamig a chefnogol.
Darganfyddwch sut mae ein hymchwil arloesol yn gyrru effaith go iawn yn y byd.
O arloesiadau iechyd i atebion dylunio creadigol, mae ein prosiectau amlddisgyblaethol yn mynd i'r afael â heriau byd-eang ar gyfer dyfodol gwell.
Cydweithrediad sy'n tanio darganfyddiad ac effaith.
Mae ein canolfannau a'n grwpiau ymchwil arbenigol yn ysgogi cyfnewid gwybodaeth ar draws disgyblaethau, diwydiannau a chymunedau.
Mae ein llwyddiant yn asesiad REF diwethaf Llywodraeth y DU yn amlygu cryfder ein hymchwil, gyda chyfraniadau sylweddol at heriau byd-eang.
Pontio ymchwil a diwydiant er lles effaith yn y byd go iawn.
Rydym yn partneru â busnesau i ddarparu atebion sy'n cael eu gyrru gan ymchwil, cyfnewid gwybodaeth, a strategaethau arloesol.
Datgloi eich potensial gyda gradd ymchwil ym Met Caerdydd.
Gweithiwch ochr yn ochr ag academyddion blaenllaw, partneriaid diwydiant, a llunwyr polisi i ysgogi effaith yn y byd go iawn ar draws meysydd amrywiol.
Lluniwch y dyfodol gydag ymchwil o bwys.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/new-research-on-long-covid-offers-hope-for-patients-living-with-condition.php:
A new clinical study from Cardiff Metropolitan University – in collaboration with Cwm Taf Morgannwg University Health Board (CTM UHB) – has highlighted new biomedical insights into long-COVID and could take existing studies one step closer to finding treatment for patients living with the condition.
Long COVID is a new condition which can affect people who have previously had the COVID-19 virus.
Symptoms can include heart disease, muscle and joint pain, extreme tiredness, coughing, shortness of breath and memory difficulties.
The ‘ Seasonal variation in the associations between self-reported long-COVID symptoms and IL-6 signaling-related factors ’ clinical study from Cardiff Met and CTM UHB included DNA and blood samples taken from 175 participants who had previously had the COVID-19 infection.
The bloods taken measured levels of two proteins, ‘Interleukin-6 (IL-6)’ and ‘Interleukin-6 Receptor (IL-6R)’, while the DNA sample was used to detect which variant of IL-6R gene, known as ‘IL-6R genotype’, was present.
IL-6 and IL-6R are made by the immune system to fight infection.
IL-6R is the receptor that IL-6 attaches to - like a key fitting into a lock.
This connection allows IL-6 to send signals that trigger an immune response.
Craig Greenstock, 63, from Pontypridd took part in the study and was first admitted to hospital in December 2020 at the height of the pandemic after being diagnosed with COVID Pneumonitis.
He was previously fit and healthy.
Craig went on to spend the next nine weeks in hospital, initially placed on a ventilator within the intensive care unit at CTM UHB before being moved to various wards.
He has since been diagnosed with long COVID and suffers with bouts of fatigue, breathlessness, brain fog, PTSD, night terrors and is being treated with three daily pumps for asthma related symptoms.
A nodule was also discovered on Craig’s lung following the infection.
Craig said: “I can safely say that when I was first admitted to hospital and what then developed was the scariest time of my life, both physically and mentally.
“I was extremely unwell for some time, with my family being given 24 hours for my condition to improve.
My symptoms following the virus have been so significant it has resulted in me having to retire from work.”
Participants were also asked to complete a questionnaire sharing their current long COVID symptoms at different times throughout the year to see if the change in seasons affected the condition, and to help get an accurate diagnosis.
The purpose of the study - which was funded through The Cwm Taf Morgannwg University Health Board Collaborative Research Fund - was to better understand how these IL-6-related factors contribute to the risk of long COVID and possibly initiate future strategies for using them as biomarkers predictive of risk.
The results from the participants tested highlighted that long COVID sufferers had elevated levels of IL-6 compared to those who had regained full health.
The results also showed the risk of getting long COVID appeared to be increased in patients with a particular type of IL-6R genotype, known as the ‘AA’ genotype.
Dr Richard Webb, a Principal Lecturer in Biomedical Sciences in the Centre for Cardiovascular Research, Innovation and Development (CURIAD) at Cardiff Metropolitan University is leading on the study.
He said: “While interpretation is complicated by seasonal variations, the findings from the study point towards possible future use of IL-6 and IL-6R genotype as biomarkers predictive of long COVID risk, which may bring advantages regarding the management and treatment of the illness.”
Dr Ceri Lynch is a Consultant in Anaesthetics and Intensive Care Medicine and Critical Care Research Lead at Cwm Taf Morgannwg University Health Board and has worked alongside Cardiff Met on the long COVID symptoms study.
Dr Lynch said: “This collaborative research between Cwm Taf Morgannwg and Cardiff Metropolitan University has shown some interesting and exciting findings with regard to the risk factors for developing long Covid.
We would like to continue this work, with the ultimate aim of identifying an effective drug treatment for the condition.”
Craig added: “I was very fortunate to have a positive attitude to life and fairly healthy, so strong enough, physically and mentally, to be able to fight the virus and ongoing recovery.
“I would be prepared to try any medicine that could improve my standard of life back to anywhere near where it was before I fell ill.”
The team of researchers from Cardiff Met and CTM UHB will now look at how the findings from this study can be integrated into and support The Post-hospitalisation COVID-19 study (PHOSP-COVID) - which includes leading researchers and clinicians from across the UK working together to understand and improve long-term health outcomes for patients who have been in hospital with confirmed or suspected COVID-19.
The full clinical study is published in ScienceDirect: ‘ Seasonal variation in the associations between self-reported long-COVID symptoms and IL-6 signalling-related factors (particularly the rs2228145 variant of the IL-6R gene) ’

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-mets-pro-vice-chancellor-for-research--innovation-appointed-chair-of-ref-2029-sub-panel-for-sport-and-exercise-sciences-leisure-and-tourism.php:
Professor Sheldon Hanton, Cardiff Metropolitan University’s Pro Vice Chancellor of Research and Innovation, has been appointed Chair of the Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism Sub-Panel for the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2029.
The REF is the UK’s national system for assessing the quality of research in higher education institutions.
It informs the allocation of public research funding and ensures accountability for public investment.
The appointment, confirmed by the four UK higher education funding bodies in collaboration with the REF main panel chairs and advisory panel members, places Professor Hanton among the senior academic leaders responsible for guiding the UK’s national assessment of research quality.
As Chair, Professor Hanton will lead the sub-panel through the criteria setting phase, starting later this year, and oversee the unit’s work through to the final assessment of research submissions in 2029.
He will play a key role in shaping how research within his field is evaluated across UK higher education institutions.
Reflecting on his appointment, Professor Hanton said: “I am delighted and honoured to be appointed as Chair of the Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism Sub-Panel for the Research Excellence Framework 2029.
The exercise is a vital and substantial component of our research landscape, and I very much look forward to working closely with colleagues to showcase the outstanding research in the discipline.”
The Pro Vice-Chancellor’s appointment is part of a broader announcement confirming the chairs and deputy chairs for all 34 expert REF sub-panels.
These individuals will lead their respective panels through development and assessment phases, ensuring a process that is fair, robust and reflective of the breadth of research excellence in the UK.
While the majority of sub-panel chairs and sub-chairs have been confirmed, REF is now working to appoint their full panels, ensuring that membership reflects the full range of required expertise.
These appointments will be announced in summer 2025.
REF Director Rebecca Fairbairn said: “I'm delighted to welcome this outstanding group to lead the REF 2029 sub-panels.
Their deep expertise and broad perspectives will be central to building an assessment process that is fair, rigorous, and trusted by the research community.”
The full list of appointed sub-panel chairs and deputy chairs can be found via the Panels page on the REF website .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-mets-pdr-celebrates-double-win-at-2025-if-design-awards.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s design and innovation research institution, PDR, is celebrating a landmark achievement, having won two prestigious accolades at the 2025 iF Design Awards - one of the most internationally recognised honours in the design world.
This year’s winners are Tidal - Personal Prosthetic Design Service in the service design category, and Me.
- Personalised Monitoring Device in the product concept category.
Tidal represents a collaborative project with Swansea Bay University Health Board, focused on transforming how assistive technology is delivered.
The service places users at the heart of the design process, supporting device co-creation alongside healthcare professionals to improve user satisfaction.
By involving both the end-user and healthcare professionals in device co-creation, Tidal enhances satisfaction and reduces premature abandonment of prosthetics - an issue affecting thousands of patients globally.
Me.
is a pioneering personalised monitoring system designed to support women experiencing menopausal symptoms.
Through real-time hormonal monitoring, the device enables users to better understand and manage their health.
This targeted approach not only improves self-care but also informs more accurate treatment decisions, addressing a critical gap in female healthcare.
Jarred Evans, Director at PDR, shared his excitement at adding another two iF Design Awards to the institute’s impressive roster of awards : “I’m absolutely buzzing that PDR has bagged another two iF Awards!
It’s always an honour, but this year feels extra special - one of the awards shines a light on much-needed innovation in overlooked areas of female health.
Plus, we finally landed our first iF Design Award in the service design category for Tidal, which spun out of our researcrh and some solid teamwork with our NHS partners.
Not to brag, but 90 plus major design awards now for what is effectively a small but highly talented and professional team - we are doing something right!"
The iF Design Awards continue to be one of the most sought-after recognitions in the field, with thousands of entries from around the globe judged by an international panel of independent experts.
The accolades reinforce PDR’s status as a global leader in applied design research, having proved itself as the country’s best and consistently named among the top 25 design studios globally since its founding in 1994.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-met-researcher-announced-as-health-and-care-research-wales-senior-research-leader.php:
A professor from Cardiff Metropolitan University has been appointed as one of Health and Care Research Wales’ Senior Research Leaders, providing leadership and acting as an ambassador and advocate for health and care research in Wales over the next three years.
Yvonne Wren is a Professor of Speech and Language Therapy at Cardiff Met and has been appointed alongside 20 individuals from academia and the NHS, all of whom demonstrate research leadership, excellence and impact both in Wales and internationally.
Over the next three years they will play a vital role in developing the health and care research community in Wales.
Health and Care Research Wales’ Senior Research Leaders are among the most prominent and prestigious health and care researchers in the country.
Those selected all have a track record of developing researchers and building Wales’ research capacity and capability, as well as integrating patient and public involvement in research.
Commenting on the appointment, Professor Yvonne Wren said: “It is an honour to be recognised as a Senior Research Leader by Health and Care Research Wales and also to represent Cardiff Metropolitan University amongst this group of prestigious research leaders in health and social care.
“Supporting research in Wales and enabling others to build a research career is a vital part of my role and this appointment will enable me to continue and extend this activity whilst also supporting involvement from those with lived experience of communication disorders, which is key to ensuring our research will lead to impact.”
Managed and supported by the Health and Care Research Wales Faculty, the Senior Research Leaders will continue dedicating time to participate in a range of Faculty’s activities, including funding panels, boards and committees.
Yvonne is also Director of Bristol Speech and Language Therapy Research Unit at North Bristol NHS Trust and Professor of Speech and Communication at the University of Bristol and was elected Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapist (RCSLT) in 2022.
The impact of Yvonne’s work, together with the teams that she leads, includes the development of a diagnostic pathway and core outcome set for children with speech sound disorder.
She has also used data from a large-scale population study to identify risk factors for persistent speech disorder which has been used to guide clinical practice in speech and language therapy in Wales and included in clinical guidance provided by the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.
Yvonne is currently working with Welsh Government to develop a novel bilingual tool for the surveillance of early speech and language development for children growing up in Wales.
Gareth Cross, Deputy Director of Science, Research and Evidence at Welsh Government, said: “The panel was very impressed with the upward trajectory of the Welsh research environment; several of the panel members had sat on previous Senior Research Leader award panels and noted that great strides were being made in this respect.
The breadth of applications was outstanding.
“The Senior Research Leaders’ expertise and dedication will be instrumental in fostering innovation, collaboration, and excellence within our research community, and we look forward to seeing the valuable contributions they will make over the next three years.”
Visit the Health and Care Research Wales website to see the full list of Senior Research Leaders.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/canolfannau-a-grwpiau-ymchwil-ac-arloesi:
Mae gan Met Caerdydd ystod eang o ganolfannau a grwpiau ymchwil yn ganolbwyntiedig ar ymchwil trawiadol ledled y byd, ac yn cwmpasu meysydd pwnc sy'n unol â phob un o'n hysgolion academaidd.
Dysgwch am ein cydweithrediadau a sut rydym yn cyfrannu at Nodau Datblygu Cynaliadwy (SDGs) y Cenhedloedd Unedig.
Gallwch hefyd weld allbynnau ymchwil a chyhoeddiadau, yn ogystal â phroffiliau ymchwilwyr ac aelodaeth canolfannau a grwpiau unigol.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-and-innovation-centres-and-groups/centre-for-international-research-into-leadership-in-education:
The Centre for International Research into Leadership in Education (CIRLE) works with national and international scholars to generate new research-informed knowledge, ideas and practices about leadership in education.
The Centre grounds its research in the real-world challenges facing education leaders globally.
The Centre works with a diverse range of international and national Associates who have expertise in research and practice within the field of leadership in education.
The Centre has also partnered with the International Congress for School Effectiveness and Improvement (ICSEI) and the Educational Leadership Network (ELN) to create new opportunities for disseminating  cutting edge research and collaborative working.
It is also working with the European Leadership Network in Education and the New South Wales School Leadership Institute .
Current research themes include:
The Centre has a range of current research projects and new research applications that involve the following organisations:
Co-Directors
International and national affiliates currently work with Centre colleagues to broaden and enrich the research work undertaken.
These renowned scholars bring a critical, global research perspective to educational leadership and are key partners:
National Affiliates are involved in research-based programmes, projects and publications that help to improve the scholarly knowledge base on educational leadership.
Centre for International Research into Leadership in Education (CIRLE) - Research Explorer
CIRLE is linked to the highly prestigious and impactful journal, School Leadership and Management .
Date : Friday 27 June 2025 Location : Cardiff City Stadium
This invite-only event brings together policy makers, practitioners and researchers from Wales and beyond to share their experiences, knowledge and expertise.
Organised by the Welsh Government , ICSEI and Cardiff Met, the event includes keynote addresses, parallel sessions, poster sessions, as well as a policy forum at the end of the day.
The programme will explore how to repurpose education so that equitable educational outcomes and experiences are available to all children and young people – whatever their situation or background.
To find out more about ICSEI 2025, please email ICSEIWales@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
After the conference, a link to the dissemination pack – which includes videos, papers, posters and information about ICSEI membership and its annual congress – will be added here.
Visit the Centre’s research explorer page to learn more about its members, research outputs, collaborations and how its work contributes to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.
To register your interest in CIRLE, please email Professor Alma Harris at AHarris@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-and-innovation-centres-and-groups/centre-for-cardiovascular-research-innovation-and-development:
​​​​​​​​​​​​​The Centre for Cardiovascular Research, Innovation and Development (CURIAD) works collaboratively with partners across the healthcare and technology sectors, national and international higher education institutions, and third sector partners.
CURIAD’s aims are to undertake high quality fundamental and integrated cardiovascular research and translate this research into practice for patient and public benefit.
CURIAD, led by Professor Barry McDonnell, has an established research and innovation infrastructure that facilitates the delivery of innovative fundamental science, mechanism-oriented physiological science and clinical research trials that provide pathways for research activities for the benefit of the health of the population.
CURIAD is underpinned by three internationally recognised research & innovation groups, including:  ​
Research at the interface between biology and medicine focusing on the pathophysiology of ageing and cardiovascular diseases.
Devoted to understanding the mechanisms of adaptation across the spectrum of health and disease.
Focused on translating our R&I activities into clinical practice and other community settings for patient benefit and public health.
CURIAD has achieved significant success, including securing income from prestigious funding sources (e.g.
NIHR, NIH, BHF, Fulbright, AMS, FPVII, UKRI, Horizon 2020, Stroke Association, Health and Care Research Wales, and Wales Innovation Network).
Strategically, our 51-strong academic faculty are integrated within a large network of external partners, enabling our research groups to nurture high-quality collaborative research and evidence significant international reach.
National Cardiovascular Research Network – This Health and Care Research Wales and British Heart Foundation co-funded network, led by our CURIAD team, has been established to bring researchers, health professionals, patient representatives and others together, to improve the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular disease in Wales and beyond.
Click here for more information on the National Cardiovascular Research Network.
Stroke Hub Wales - Stroke Hub Wales is a collaborative initiative dedicated to enhancing stroke care through research, innovation, and education.
The hub fosters communication, advances evidence-based care, and supports stroke prevention and recovery.
Click here for more information on Stroke Hub Wales.
Find out more about CURIAD , including membership, rese​arch outputs, and our collaborations across the world.
We’ve invested in cardiovascular focused facilities and infrastructure to support research and innovation activity.
Our new patient and public-facing Allied Clinical Health Hub provides state-of-the-art blood pressure and arrhythmia measurement and monitoring systems and cardiovascular risk factor point-of-care tests (e.g., Lipids & HBA1c), all of which are currently available for implementation in public and patient education, awareness, and monitoring initiatives.
The Hub now includes four clinical consulting rooms, a Diabetic foot clinic, Podiatry clinic, and a Speech and Language Therapy clinic.
Our established facility houses dedicated state-of-the-art equipment to measure and assess cardiac and vascular structure and function, respiratory function, cerebrovascular function and beat-to-beat heart rhythm and blood pressure, to better understand cardiovascular regulation.
This facility has also housed BHF-funded clinical Trials (AIM-Hy trial), observational and integrated cardiovascular physiology and cohort studies.
This includes a purpose-built integrated exercise physiology laboratory, which is one of few facilities internationally that can concurrently apply techniques such as state-of-the-art speckle-tracking echocardiography, cerebrovascular duplex ultrasound, and Muscle Sympathetic Neural Activity during exercise.
This facility also houses a dedicated Exercise for Health and Rehabilitation Facility.
Together, these facilities allow the team to embed our integrated exercise physiology research with patient and public engagement.
These specialist laboratories are purpose-built for research and innovation.
They include a tissue culture facility, licenced human tissue freezer bank, chemical analysis suite, and laboratory space for R&I projects.
These provide support for core techniques, with most analyses undertaken in-house, including GC-MS, Flow cytometry, complex histo and microscopy, Nanosight tracking analysis, proteomics and haematology, and blood biochemistry.
Our specialist Health Sciences facilities are designed to support advanced research and innovation, providing cutting-edge resources for practical application and discovery.
Our state-of-the-art sport and academic facilities foster research excellence, offering practical environments for pioneering studies and applied experimentation.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-and-innovation-centres-and-groups/centre-for-speech-hearing-and-communication-research:
Situated within Cardiff Metropolitan University’s School of Sport and Health Sciences, the Centre for Speech, Hearing and Communication Research ( CSHCR ) focuses on three areas of expertise; clinical speech and language therapy research; healthy and impaired hearing; and bilingual and multilingual development.
The Centre works with NHS health boards, funding bodies and clinical networks to deliver research collaborations with national and international institutions, notably in Europe, the USA, China, Japan and Australia.
Working in partnership with the Bristol Speech and Language Therapy Research Unit, the Centre for Speech, Hearing and Communication Research boasts state-of-the-art laboratory facilities with specialised equipment for phonetics and audiology research.
It also runs its own speech research clinic through which participant recruitment for many studies is facilitated, and has strong links with the University’s Allied Clinical Health Hub as well as undergraduate and taught Master’s programmes in speech and language therapy and audiology.
The Centre for Speech, Hearing and Communication Research strives to become a centre of research excellence in the fields of:
The CSHCR has received substantial funding from major funding bodies, such as the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the British Academy/Leverhulme Trust, Welsh Government, the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Discover the Centre for Speech, Hearing and Communication Research’s team by visiting their academics profiles on Pure Research Explorer: Centre for Speech, Hearing, & Communications — Cardiff Metropolitan University Research Explorer
Published research papers can be found on the Centre for Speech, Hearing and Communication Research’s Pure Research Explorer Page: Centre for Speech, Hearing, & Communications – Research Output — Cardiff Metropolitan University Research Explorer
Children aged 3+ and adults* who are presenting with complex and/or persistent Speech Sound Disorder that has been resistant to intervention.
Please see our referral criteria for further details.
Email completed referral form and supporting documents to thespecialistspeechclinic@cardiffmet.ac.uk
* Please note we are unable to accept referrals for Acquired Motor Speech Disorders in adults e.g.
following stroke or progressive neurological conditions.
For further information about our research, please contact us.
For general queries about CSHCR and our research on Bilingual Development:
Dr Robert Mayr (Head of Centre and lead on Bilingual Development): rmayr@cardiffmet.ac.uk
For queries on our Clinical Speech and Language Research:
Prof Yvonne Wren (Deputy Head of Centre and lead for Clinical Speech and Language Research): ywren@cardiffmet.ac.uk
For queries on our research on Healthy and Impaired Hearing:
Prof Fei Zhao (Lead for Healthy and Impaired Hearing): fzhao@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Stay updated on the latest Centre developments by following the CSHCR on

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/busnes/astudiaethau-achos-ymchwil-ac-arloesi:
Ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd, mae ein gweithgareddau ymchwil ac arloesi yn canolbwyntio ar gyflawni effaith yn y byd go iawn sy'n fuddiol i bobl, lleoedd a'r blaned.
Gan weithio mewn partneriaeth â diwydiant, gwasanaethau cyhoeddus a chymunedau, rydym yn troi arbenigedd academaidd yn atebion ymarferol — gan helpu i fynd i'r afael â heriau cymdeithasol, ysgogi datblygiad economaidd cynhwysol, a chefnogi twf cynaliadwy ledled Cymru a thu hwnt.
Mae'r casgliad hwn o astudiaethau achos yn dangos ehangder a dyfnder gweithgareddau ymchwil a chyfnewid gwybodaeth Met Caerdydd.
O arloesi cynnyrch a gweithgynhyrchu uwch i dwf glân, trawsnewid digidol, a datblygu mentrau, mae'r straeon hyn yn tynnu sylw at sut rydym yn llunio dyfodol gwell trwy gydweithio, creadigrwydd, ac effaith sy'n seiliedig ar dystiolaeth.
Ymchwil sy’n llunio dyfodol gwell
Mae ein hastudiaethau achos ymchwil yn dangos sut mae Met Caerdydd yn mynd i'r afael â heriau'r byd go iawn trwy feddwl arloesol, cydweithio traws-sector, ac ymchwil sy'n sbarduno newid cadarnhaol yn lleol ac yn fyd-eang.
Darllen mwy
Cyflawni effaith ranbarthol
Darganfyddwch sut mae Met Caerdydd yn cyflawni effaith ystyrlon ar draws y rhanbarth, o dwf glân ac arloesi digidol i ddatblygu sgiliau a chymorth busnes.
Arloesi wedi'i yrru gan Gyfnewid Gwybodaeth
Archwiliwch sut mae partneriaethau cyfnewid gwybodaeth Met Caerdydd yn helpu busnesau i arloesi, tyfu ac aros ar y blaen mewn marchnad gystadleuol.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/research-and-innovation-case-studies/research-shaping-a-better-future:
At Cardiff Metropolitan University, our research is centred around real-world impact, designed not only to advance knowledge, but to drive meaningful change.
From health and education to sustainability and the creative industries, our researchers are working at the forefront of innovation, tackling society’s most pressing challenges and unlocking new possibilities.
Through collaborative partnerships, bold thinking, and a commitment to impact, we're shaping a better future for communities in Wales and around the world.
Explore our REF-submitted case studies to see how Cardiff Met research is making a real-world difference.
These examples highlight the impact of our work across diverse sectors, showcasing how our research contributes to solving real challenges and creating positive change locally and globally.
Hear some unique and thought-provoking approaches to tackling challenges through research and enterprise with our Lightning Talks , designed for a broad audience, offering a snapshot of the exciting, diverse work taking place across the University.
Discover our areas of research expertise through our Research and Innovation Centres and Groups or dive deeper into our latest publications by visiting our Research Explorer .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/research-and-innovation-case-studies/delivering-regional-impact:
At Cardiff Metropolitan University, we believe in turning ambition into action.
As Wales moves towards a stronger, greener, and digitally connected future in line with the Welsh Government’s Programme for Government, we’re turning our academic expertise into active support for this transformation for Wales — working hand in hand with businesses, communities, and public sector organisations to equip people with the skills and innovation needed to power this much needed change.
Thanks to the UK Government’s Shared Prosperity Fund, the European Social Fund, Cardiff Capital Region and our partner Councils, we’re delivering targeted initiatives in clean growth, digital skills, and business innovation.
These programmes are designed to tackle key challenges—helping Wales achieve net-zero, embrace the digital revolution, and build a resilient economy.
Wales and the wider UK is on a mission to reach net-zero by 2050, but getting there requires practical, immediate action from businesses and communities.
That’s where the Circular Economy Innovation Communities (CEIC) programme, comes in.
We’re helping organisations rethink their business models, adopt sustainable practices, and innovate for a low-carbon future.
Download the CEIC Case Study
In a rapidly developing online world, digital skills aren’t just nice to have - they’re essential.
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s Digital Technology Learning Support Network (DTLSN) is breaking down barriers to digital inclusion by providing hands-on training, tools, and support to individuals, schools, and businesses across Wales.
Download the DTLSN Case Study
Well run businesses are fundamental to strong economies.
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s Business Growth Programme, run by the Creative Leadership and Enterprise Centre (CLEC) , is equipping entrepreneurs and SMEs in the Cardiff Capital Region with the strategic management and people development skills needed for sustainable growth.
Download the CLEC Case Study
ZERO2FIVE Food Industry Centre is part of Cardiff Metropolitan University.
It combines technical expertise, insight and research to help build more innovative, resilient and successful food businesses.
As part of the Welsh Government’s HELIX Programme, ZERO2FIVE works with food and drink companies of all sizes and stages of growth to provide technical support, such as new product development, third party certification, global food standards compliance (including BRCGS and SALSA) and process efficiency.
The state-of-the-art facilities at ZERO2FIVE include a consumer sensory suite, four distinct food processing areas, a development kitchen and a consumer observation kitchen.
ZERO2FIVE Food Industry Centre’s Food and Drink Research Unit has expertise in food and drink industry focused research, consumer food safety research in the domestic setting and food safety related healthcare research.
Each year ZERO2FIVE works with over 100 food and drink companies in the south-east Wales region.
These companies range in stage from start-up to some of the largest food and drink companies in Europe.
Between July 2023 and March 2025 the support provided by ZERO2FIVE and the two other food centres delivering the HELIX Programme, has contributed to the creation of188 new jobs, safeguarding of 6,131 jobs, 533 new products and an overall financial impact of £303m.
Visit the ZERO2FIVE Food Industry Centre web pages to discover more
The DAPTEC project was a collaborative partnership between Cardiff Metropolitan University, Yard and Cardiff Council, transforming complex environmental data from Flat Holm Island into an interactive public installation at Techniquest, engaging communities, schools, and visitors with STEM through creative technology.
Aligned with the Welsh Government’s priorities on climate and nature, stronger communities, and a more equal Wales, the project raised environmental awareness, inspired future talent, and showcased the power of cross-sector collaboration in delivering place-based innovation.
Watch the case study video
The Cardiff Capital Region Academic-Industry Partnerships Programme was an exciting opportunity for high-potential businesses to unlock ambitious new growth opportunities by partnering with Academic expertise.
Led by the University of South Wales, in collaboration with Cardiff University and Cardiff Metropolitan University, the programme facilitated the development of new or improved products, services, technologies, or processes, fostering innovation and economic growth within the region via targeted funding.
More information on the programme and its goals can be found by clicking here .
A range of expertise and intervention support was available across all three academic partner institutions.
Projects were aligned to relevant academic centres and institutions based upon the available resource and capacity to support project delivery at that time.
PDR at Cardiff Met partnered with Ride Adapt to develop a solution via the programme that met their needs.
Click here to view the case study from that programme.
For information on ways your organisation can collaborate with Cardiff Met with a number of funded opportunities explained, please visit our Collaboration & Funding page.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/research-and-innovation-case-studies/innovation-driven-by-knowledge-exchange:
Through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and SMART Partnerships, Cardiff Metropolitan University collaborates directly with businesses to embed academic expertise, accelerate innovation, and drive strategic change.
These projects help companies like Seven Oaks Modular, Zest, and Window Cleaning Warehouse gain a competitive edge by developing new products, streamlining operations, and building long-term research capabilities.
Company partner: Seven Oaks Modular (SO Modular) - a timber-frame modular manufacturer delivering Design, Supply and Erect.
Sector: Construction
Innovation via the KTP: New environmentally friendly, sustainable wall panels developed.
Improvements in efficiencies, the cost and quality of SO Modular products.
Seven Oaks Modular:
Company Partner: Zest Outdoor Living, part of P & A Group of Companies
Sector: Garden furniture manufacturer with a focus on environmental sustainability
Innovation via both projects: New to market, innovative product conceptualisation, design and launch.
Gave Zest the expertise and confidence to become market leader in the garden products sector.
Zest:
Company Partner: Window Cleaning Warehouse (WCW)
Sector: Supplier, innovator and manufacturer of a large range of window cleaning systems and kits globally
Innovation via two KTPs: KTP 1 – implementation and embedding of sector innovative, end user-led product design capability within WCW.
The video highlights how WCW benefitted from the initial KTP.
KTP 2 – support company transition to becoming an Internet of Things hardware / software service provider within the cleaning industry to allow companies to adopt industry 4.0 infrastructures.
Window Cleaning Warehouse:
Company Partner: Yard (part of Koios Consulting)
Sector: Digital data analytics, customer insights, profiling and data consolidation services.
Innovation via two KTPs: KTP 1 - Predictive attribution modelling in machine learning and statistical methods to become a market leader.
KTP 2 – Development of neural network-based method to semantically analyse website content then used as a basis for optimising organic search visibility.
Yard:
Company Partner: Agile Kinetic
Sector: Software company specialising in use of artificial intelligence to digitise movement using accessible devices.
Innovation via the Smart Partnership: Use of AI to gain insight from movement for treatment of medical and health conditions on mobile devices.
Agile:
Whether you're a business looking to innovate, a public sector organisation tackling complex challenges, or a researcher seeking meaningful impact, we’d love to hear from you.
Contact our Research and Innovation team to explore how we can work together at business@cardiffmet.ac.uk or visit our Collaboration & Funding page for more information.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/academiau-byd-eang:
Yma ym Met Caerdydd, rydym wedi ymrwymo i gael effaith gadarnhaol ar y byd o'n cwmpas.
Mae ein hacademïau byd-eang yn dod ag arbenigedd ymchwil ynghyd i fynd i'r afael â rhai o'r heriau mwyaf y mae angen i gymdeithas eu goresgyn.
Maent yn gydweithredol ac yn rhyngddisgyblaethol gan gyfuno ein cryfderau mewn ymchwil, arloesi ac addysgu i fynd i'r afael â materion sy'n effeithio arnom yn lleol, yn genedlaethol ac yn rhyngwladol.
Ein nod yw helpu i wella'r byd o'n cwmpas yn gydweithredol ac yn dosturiol.
Gan gynnig ystod o gyfleoedd dysgu ac ymchwil ôl-raddedig, mae ein Academïau Byd-eang yn rhyngwladol yn eu rhagolwg.
Maent yn ddulliau sy'n seiliedig ar ddatrysiadau i wella'r byd o'n cwmpas ar gyfer cenedlaethau'r dyfodol.
Ein tri Academi Byd-eang yw:
Mae'r Academi hon yn dwyn ynghyd ein harbenigedd mewn lles, iechyd y cyhoedd, gwyddorau biofeddygol, arweinyddiaeth a rheolaeth, chwaraeon, gweithgarwch corfforol, hyfforddi a thechnoleg.
Mae'n cymryd golwg gyfannol ar berfformiad dynol, gyda'r nod o wella unigolion er budd cymdeithas, o gadw'n iach i gyflawni llwyddiant o safon fyd-eang mewn unrhyw faes.
Mae ein Hacademi Fyd-eang Iechyd a Pherfformiad Dynol yn mynd i'r afael â Nodau Cynaliadwyedd y Cenhedloedd Unedig sy'n ymwneud ag iechyd a lles da, gwaith gweddus a thwf economaidd a dinasoedd a chymunedau cynaliadwy.
Mae'r Academi hon yn cyfuno ein harbenigedd mewn cynhyrchu bwyd technegol, gweithredol a masnachol a gwyddorau biofeddygol, ynghyd â maeth, gwyddoniaeth ganfyddiadol a seicoleg.
Gan gael effaith drwy fentrau datblygu cynnyrch newydd, iechyd defnyddwyr, mewnfuddsoddi ac allforio, mae ein Academi Fyd-eang Gwyddor a Diogelwch yn mynd i'r afael â heriau byd-eang sy'n gysylltiedig â gwaith gweddus a thwf economaidd, arloesi diwydiannol a seilwaith, defnydd cyfrifol a chynhyrchu, a dim newyn.
Mae'r Academi hon yn cyd-fynd â'n nod o wella'r byd o'n cwmpas, gan ysgogi creu atebion arloesol i heriau byd-eang.
Mae sefydliadau, cynhyrchion, prosesau a gwasanaethau sy'n gosod yr unigolyn yn eu canol yn darparu atebion effeithiol.
Mae ein Hacademi Fyd-eang Dylunio sy'n Canolbwyntio ar Bobl yn cysylltu arbenigedd mewn dylunio â thechnoleg, celf, pensaernïaeth a pholisi i fynd i'r afael ag ystod amrywiol o heriau byd-eang gan gynnwys gwaith gweddus a thwf economaidd, arloesedd a seilwaith y diwydiant ac effaith penderfyniadau cyrff cyhoeddus ar genedlaethau'r dyfodol.
I gael gwybod mwy am sut y gallwch weithio gyda'n Academïau Byd-eang, cysylltwch â'r Athro Richard Neil (Pennaeth Ymchwil) at rneil@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/fframwaith-rhagoriaeth-ymchwil:
Gyda hanes rhagorol o safbwynt ymchwil cymhwysol, wedi'i gefnogi gan sylfaen gref o arbenigedd ac ysgolheictod uwch, mae cymhwysiad uniongyrchol i ymchwil gan y brifysgol ym maes busnes, diwydiant, y proffesiynau a'r gymuned yn gyffredinol.​​​
Canfu asesiad cenedlaethol annibynnol diwethaf Llywodraeth y DU o ansawdd ymchwil (REF2021) fod 70% o'n cyflwyniad cyffredinol yn Rhagorol yn Rhyngwladol neu'n Arwain yn y Byd.
Yn y cyfamser, cafodd ein hastudiaethau achos effaith (ymchwil sy'n effeithio ar, yn newid neu'n fuddiol i'r economi, cymdeithas, diwylliant, polisi neu wasanaethau cyhoeddus, iechyd yr amgylchedd neu ansawdd bywyd, y tu hwnt i'r byd academaidd) eu graddio'n 80% yn fewnol yn Rhagorol neu'n Arwain y Byd.
Cymhwyso ymchwil dylunio i werth therapiwtig gwrthrychau chwareus.
Effaith ymchwil dylunio ar gystadleurwydd BBaCh.
Gwella defnydd addysgwyr o dechnoleg wrth addysgu ieithoedd ar draws Ewrop ac Ewrasia.
Effaith ymchwil ar uwchsgilio athrawon i drawsnewid y Cwricwlwm newydd yng Nghymru’n sylfaenol.
Effaith ymchwil gwyddor ymarfer corff ar iechyd, lles a goroesiad epaod mawr.
Datblygu ymarfer proffesiynol o ansawdd uchel drwy ymchwil cydweithredol â hyfforddwyr ac ymarferwyr proffesiynol.
Mae ymchwil i allu athletaidd hirdymor plant a phobl ifanc wedi effeithio ar bolisi ac ymarfer cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol.
Effaith ymchwil goruchwyliaeth ar anafiadau ar nodi ac atal anafiadau i’r pen mewn criced a rygbi’r undeb.
Arloesi wedi’i yrru gan ymchwil mewn datblygu cynnyrch heb glwten.
Effaith cyflwyno sgrinio ar gyfer Clefyd Rhedwelïol Ymylol ym Mauritius ar bobl â Diabetes.
Effaith gwaith KITE ar sector gweithgynhyrchu bwyd a diod Cymru.
Effaith hyfforddiant arweinyddiaeth ar sail ymchwil ar berfformiad ac arfer busnes.
Dulliau ymchwil gwerthuso arloesol yn arwain at newidiadau mewn polisi ac ymarfer sefydliadol.
Cymhwyso COMPS mewn lleoliadau busnes a’i effaith gadarnhaol ar berfformiad ac effeithlonrwydd.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/hug:
A £424k AHRC-funded research project resulted in the HUG™, an artefact that improves the life quality of people with advanced dementia.
A six-month £185K Welsh Government funded trial showed 87% improved participant wellbeing.
HUG™ is now prescribed on the NHS , secured the UK Tech4Good Winner of Winners’ award 2020 and, through £105K capital investment from sources such as UK Alzheimer’s Society, a spin-out company was launched to meet national and international demand from Health Boards, care homes and the general public.
Download the Research Excellence Framework Impact Case Study

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/design-ecosystems:
Whicher and Walters’s research significantly impacted policy and practice in Europe through the development of a design ecosystem for innovation.
Via multiple large scale RCUK and EU-funded projects, they contributed to seven policy instruments across six countries, influencing €358,000,000 of structural fund provision and direct government investment of €14,036,796 into c2,600 European SMEs.
In Scotland alone 618 companies benefitted, leading to £134,971,200 of additional sales for a government investment of £3,090,000 – a taxpayer return on investment of over 4,000% .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/technology-in-language-teaching:
Through €804K grant funding, the Interactive Technologies in Language Teaching (ITiLT) project impacted the language teaching and pedagogical practice of over 9,300 educators benefitting c50,000 students across Europe and Eurasia.
Course materials were produced in 6 languages and 1,327 teaching practitioners attended ITiLT workshops.
ITiLT was designated a ‘Success Story’ by Erasmus+, a category reserved for projects distinguished by their impact, contribution to policy making, innovative results or creative approach, and a source of inspiration to others.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/upskilling-teachers-for-cfw:
In 2022, Wales will implement a new curriculum in all schools, affecting 468,383 pupils and allowing 22,000 teachers to design their own curricula within a national framework.
Cardiff Met’s research underpinned the upskilling of teachers in 33 schools to be change managing creative enquirers thereby impacting the professional practice of 1,045 staff and the learning experience of 14,900 pupils.
It’s success led to over 300 additional schools embarking on the programme to facilitate the new curriculum.
Pupils’ work also improved in quality, with the work before the intervention being cross moderated with my Head of Department as level 4, and the work after the intervention as level 5-6.
The work demonstrates that they have a greater understanding of each of the terms through the use of tone on the face, the quality of their presentation in comparison to previous work, and the addition of detail.
- Extract from Undertaking Professional Enquiry: An Introduction for Lead Enquirers

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/international-primate-heart-project:
Drane and Shave worked with European zoos, great ape sanctuaries in Africa and Indonesia, and international veterinary organisations to improve understanding, diagnosis and management of heart disease in critically endangered great apes.
They assessed cardiac health in 543 apes, provided professional development for 200 veterinary professionals from 80 institutions across 35 countries ; assisted animal selection for the World’s largest ever chimpanzee re-introduction programme ; and, produced Pan African Sanctuary Alliance professional veterinary guidelines - collectively contributing to the survival of the species .
The scan and other tests were carried out on Kumbuka, a 15-year-old adult silverback lowland gorilla.
Great apes tend to live longer in zoos, prompting questions about whether their cardiac problems could be linked to a more sedentary lifestyle.
Subtle differences in human and great ape hearts could also help to explain how the human heart may have evolved.
- Extract from BBC News

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/youth-physical-development:
Long-term research into athletic development of children and adolescents has informed policy and practice.
​Nationally, it has underpinned development and delivery of industry-leading coach education and athlete development programmes .
Internationally, it has informed guidelines on youth resistance training and long-term athletic development for the American Academy of Pediatrics and National Strength and Conditioning Association , and the development of the core textbook for the American College of Sports Medicine’s Youth Fitness certification, the largest programme of its kind in the world .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/head-injuries-in-cricket-and-rugby-union:
Moore and Ranson’s research informed policy and practice in identifying and preventing head injuries in cricket and rugby union, nationally and internationally.
This includes a new British Standard for Head Protectors in Cricket , a standard adopted by all nations (n=104); a revised ICC Injury Surveillance Consensus Statement ; a Welsh Rugby Union (WRU) Injury Surveillance System adopted by the British and Irish Lions and Guinness PRO14 Rugby league; and a mandatory WRU Concussion Education Programme for players, coaches, and referees.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/innovation-in-gf-food-products:
Professor Arthur Tatham
The Food Industry Centre (FIC) has been at the forefront of gluten-free (GF) product innovation and reformulation, and food safety standards.
FIC knowledge transfer activities resulted in 10 SMEs achieving a £19.6 million turnover, 30 food quality awards , and 23 accrediting body food safety standard certifications .
Through innovative ingredient and processing solutions, three SMEs brought 47 new GF products to market, providing healthier, safer, more diversified product ranges and improved product quality for individuals with coeliac disease and cereal allergies.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/peripheral-arterial-disease-screening-in-mauritius:
Mauritius has the world’s 2nd highest Diabetes fatality rate.
Lewis’ expertise in the early identification of Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) led to her appointment to establish a national Diabetic foot screening programme in Mauritius that resulted in the training of 78 nurses across 149 centres and 239,888 screenings between 2016 and 2019.
These PAD screenings will contribute to saving at least 2,144 lives by 2029 and led to the Trinidad government requesting a similar programme.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/food-safety-innovation-in-wales:
Project KITE has significantly impacted social, health, environmental, and employment skills in the Welsh food and ​drink industry.
Through its support of Welsh SMEs, KITE contributed over £100 million in increased sales, 700 jobs , and significant growth in: Food safety quality management and certification; product development, innovation and diversification; and, supply chain efficiency.
KITE also led to an additional £11 million being awarded to Project HELIX, which has achieved economic impact of over £110 million .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/20twenty-leadership:
Creative Leadership and Enterprise Centre (CLEC) research has informed regional and national policy and practice of sector stakeholders, leading to significant SME growth and improved business outcomes.
Two CLEC programmes, 20Twenty Leadership and Construction Futures Wales, have delivered SME business growth in excess of £155m , across 900 businesses, safe-guarding and/or creating over 2,000 jobs and creating 25 new businesses.
CLEC has leveraged £7m in grant funding delivering a taxpayer gain of £148m – a 2,000% return-on-investment.
20Twenty Leadership Wales | Become an Empowered Leader

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/evaluation-of-sport-programmes:
Public sector management and strategic planning research significantly impacted Welsh Government sport policy.
The Free Swimming Initiative and Active Young People Programme evaluations resulted in revised schemes, diversion of funds to the £5.4m Healthy and Active Fund, and developments in the Healthy Weight, Healthy Wales National Strategy.
The Calls for Action evaluation employed Theory of Change for the first time in such programmes - influencing future programme development and assessment such as the 60+ Active Leisure Scheme and Sport Resilience Fund.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-excellence-framework/using-comps-in-business:
The Value Flow Centre (VFC) used £100k of competitive research grant funding to develop and apply Contemporary Operations Management Paradigms (COMPS) in aerospace, architectural, automotive, food and medical manufacturing businesses.
This resulted in company savings of £32 million through enhanced business performance, a return on investment of 32,000% .
This was achieved by assisting Make UK (Wales) to improve the business performance strategies of 319 companies , helping them to develop more efficient and collaborative supply chain networks.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/amgylchedd-ymchwil:
Ym Met Caerdydd, ein nod yw gwella ansawdd, cyrhaeddiad ac effaith ein hymchwil yn barhaus, gan hyrwyddo llesiant cymdeithasol, economaidd ac amgylcheddol ar gyfer dyfodol tecach a gwyrddach.
Galluogir hyn trwy Amgylchedd Ymchwil ac Arloesi cefnogol a chynhwysol, sy'n hwyluso datblygiad academaidd a phroffesiynol.
P'un a ydych chi'n Ymchwilydd Doethurol, yn Ymchwilydd Gyrfa Cynnar neu'n Athro profiadol, mae Met Caerdydd yn cynnig cyfoeth o gefnogaeth i'ch galluogi i ddatblygu'ch gyrfa.
Mae’r cymorth hwn yn cynnwys mentora ac ymgysylltu â chymunedau, rhaglenni hyfforddi wedi’u teilwra, a chyllid a buddsoddiad, ynghyd â llwyfannau i arddangos eich ymchwil ac arloesedd.
Rydym yn gweithio i gefnogi pob cam o’ch taith ymchwil ac arloesi, o feithrin syniadau i ddarparu atebion arloesol ac effeithiol – a’r holl gamau rhyngddynt, gan gynnwys cymorth ar gydweithio ag academyddion eraill, diwydiannau a menter.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/research/research-environment/ethics-governance:
​​​​At Cardiff Met, the highest principles of ethics and integrity underpin all research activity.
The University Ethics Committee (UEC) has ultimate responsibility for the maintenance and monitoring of ethics governance at the institution.
This includes ensuring that research involving human participants carried out by staff and students conforms to the highest ethical standards as well as safeguarding the general principles laid down in the Cardiff Metropolitan University Ethics Framework.
The work of the committee is not restricted to ethical issues related to research but can include any issue related to compliance with the University’s Ethics Framework.
UEC is supported by School based ethics committees which report directly to it.
UEC is administered by Research & Innovation Services and any queries regarding the work of the committee should be directed to Kate Jefferies in the first instance.
Applications for ethics approval of a research project are considered by the ethics committee of the School where the lead applicant is based.
Specific queries regarding the ethics approval process should therefore be directed to the appropriate School contact in the first instance.
In cases where the lead applicant is not based in a Cardiff Met School, or in PDR, an application will be referred to the most relevant School committee, or direct to UEC.
Queries related to such cases should be directed to Kate Jefferies in the first instance.
School committees meet on a regular basis although meetings may be less frequent outside term time.
Students should consult their supervisor for meeting dates for the relevant School committees.
The application form and guidance notes can be accessed under the 'Useful Documents' below.
Please ensure that you are using the most recent version of the form before starting your application, to avoid having it returned to you.
In particular, applications submitted using version 7 or earlier of the Ethics Application Form can no longer be accepted as they do not take account of GDPR.
The Human Tissue Act 2004 established the HTA to regulate activities concerning the removal, storage, use and disposal of human tissue.
Staff and students at Cardiff Metropolitan University must conform with the requirements of the Human Tissue Act in all activities involving the storage of human tissue.
In particular, staff and students should be aware of and adhere to the institution's Code of Practice for obtaining Informed Consent.
The HTA Designated Individual at Cardiff Met is Dr Claire Kelly .
Useful Documents

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/amgylchedd-ymchwil/uniondeb-a-llywodraethu:
Mae Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd wedi ymrwymo i gynnal y safonau uchaf o ymddygiad proffesiynol ym mhob gweithgaredd prifysgol ac ymchwil.
Mae Fframwaith Llywodraethu Ymchwil Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yn berthnasol i bob aelod o staff a myfyriwr sy'n ymwneud ag ymchwil boed y gwaith ymchwil yn cael ei wneud o fewn neu y tu allan i Met Caerdydd.
Mae'r Fframwaith hefyd yn berthnasol i unigolion nad ydynt yn aelodau o Met Caerdydd ond a allai fod yn gwneud gwaith ymchwil o fewn adeiladau Met Caerdydd.
Mae'r fframwaith yn cynnwys set o ddisgwyliadau sy'n ei gwneud yn ofynnol i bawb sy'n ymwneud ag ymchwil gynnal safonau rhagorol o ymarfer academaidd a gonestrwydd ym mhob agwedd ar ymchwil trwy ddarllen, deall ac ymgorffori'r egwyddorion a'r arferion a nodir yn y Fframwaith yn eu gwaith bob dydd.
Mae'r Polisi Camymddwyn ym maes Ymchwil Met Caerdydd yn berthnasol i bob unigolyn sy'n ymwneud ag ymchwil ym Met Caerdydd.
Mae unigolion o'r fath yn cynnwys staff, myfyrwyr israddedig ac ôl-raddedig yn ogystal ag unigolion nad ydynt yn aelodau o Met Caerdydd, ond a allai fod yn gwneud gwaith ymchwil o fewn adeiladau Met Caerdydd.
Mae'r polisi'n mynnu bod honiadau o gamymddwyn ymchwil yn cael eu gwneud yn ysgrifenedig i Pennaeth Ymchwil y Brifysgol a fydd yn pennu a oes achos camymddwyn prima facie yn bodoli.
Adolygir y Polisi bob tair mlynedd, ac fe gymeradwywyd y fersiwn gyfredol ym mis Rhagfyr 2024.
Pennaeth Ymchwil y Brifysgol yw'r uwch arweinydd academaidd ar gyfer materion sy'n ymwneud ag uniondeb a llywodraethu ymchwil, gan gynnwys moeseg ymchwil ac fe'i cefnogir gan y Rheolwr Ymchwil, sydd wedi'i leoli yn y Gwasanaethau Ymchwil ac Arloesi (RIS).
Am unrhyw ymholiad yn ymwneud ag Uniondeb Ymchwil a Llywodraethu ym Met Caerdydd, gan gynnwys pryderon sy'n ymwneud â chamymddwyn ymchwil posibl, cysylltwch yn y lle cyntaf gyda:
Kate Jefferies, Rheolwr Ymchwil, ar kajefferies@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/amgylchedd-ymchwil/concordat-datblygu-ymchwilwyr:
Mae'r Concordat yn gytundeb rhanddeiliaid i gefnogi datblygiad gyrfa ymchwilwyr a'r amgylchedd ymchwil y mae'r gyrfaoedd hynny'n cael eu hadeiladu oddi mewn iddo.
Mae rhagor o wybodaeth am y Concordat ar gael yma ​.
Mae'r pedwar grŵp rhanddeiliaid allweddol (Cyllidwyr, Sefydliadau, Ymchwilwyr a Rheolwyr Ymchwilwyr) yn ymrwymo i ystod o ymrwymiadau o dan dair egwyddor glir: Yr Amgylchedd a Diwylliant, Cyflogaeth a Datblygiad Proffesiynol a Gyrfaol, gyda'r nod o gynyddu atyniad a chynaliadwyedd gyrfaoedd ymchwilwyr.
Wedi’i lansio yn 2008, cafodd y Concordat gwreiddiol ei ailwampio'n sylweddol yn 2019 i gynnwys mesurau mwy uchelgeisiol a mwy o atebolrwydd i randdeiliaid
Daeth Met Caerdydd yn llofnodwr yn 2021, gydag arwydd yr IG i'r perwyl hwnnw ar 3 Chwefror.
Gellir gweld copi o'r llythyr hwnnw yma .
Wrth lofnodi'r Concordat, mae'r Brifysgol wedi nodi ei hymrwymiad parhaus i gefnogi gyrfaoedd ein staff ymchwil, ond hefyd i weithio mewn partneriaeth â sefydliadau a chyllidwyr eraill i ddatblygu newidiadau systemig ehangach.
Rheolir gweithredu'r Concordat i Gefnogi Datblygiad Gyrfa'r Ymchwilwyr gan Wasanaethau Ymchwil ac Arloesi, gyda chyfrifoldeb o ddydd i ddydd am weithredu'n disgyn ar Swyddog Datblygu Staff y Brifysgol sy'n eistedd ar y Grŵp Gweithredu Concordat (CIG).
Caiff y CIG ei gadeirio gan Gyfarwyddwr Ymchwil y Brifysgol, ac mae'n cynnwys ymchwilwyr a rheolwyr ymchwil o bob rhan o'r Brifysgol.
Mae'n adrodd cynnydd yn erbyn y Cynllun Gweithredu Concordat i Bwyllgor Ymchwil ac Arloesedd y Brifysgol yn flynyddol.
Mae Met Caerdydd yn parhau i gyflawni ei holl gyfrifoldebau llofnodol.
Ceir tystiolaeth o'n hymrwymiad parhaus i gefnogi ymchwilwyr ar bob cam o'u gyrfaoedd yn ein Hadroddiadau Blynyddol i Fwrdd Llywodraethwyr y Brifysgol (ByLl).
Mae'r adroddiadau hyn wedi'u llofnodi gan Gadeirydd ByLl cyn eu cyflwyno ac mae i'w gweld yma:
Os ydych yn aelod o staff sydd â diddordeb yn y Concordat ac os hoffech gymryd rhan yn y gwaith o gefnogi'r gwaith o'i gyflwyno, cysylltwch ag Orla Govers ogovers@cardiffmet.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/amgylchedd-ymchwil/cyllid-arloesi-ymchwil-cymru:
Mewn ymateb i gylchlythyr CCAUC W20/09HE, gweler isod Strategaeth Cronfa Arloesi Ymchwil Cymru Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd 2023/24 – 2027/28.
Strategaeth Cronfa Arloesi Ymchwil Cymru 2023/24 – 2027/28
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch â Matthew Taylor, Cyfarwyddwr Arloesi trwy e-bostio mtaylor@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/busnes/cydweithio-ac-ariannu:
Mae Met Caerdydd yn cydnabod pwysigrwydd cydweithio.
Mae ein gwybodaeth a'n harbenigedd yn cefnogi sefydliadau a chwmnïau ar draws pob sector yn yr economïau lleol, rhanbarthol, cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol.
Mae gan Brifysgol Met Caerdydd hanes cryf o gyflawni canlyniadau arloesol ar y cyd, a darparu buddion cymdeithasol ac economaidd.
Ewch i weld rhai o'n hastudiaethau achos i gael gwybod mwy neu cysylltwch â'r tîm ar business@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Dyma nifer o ffyrdd y gallech chi weithio gyda ni:
Mae nifer o wasanaethau ar gael i fusnesau trwy Met Caerdydd, gan gynnwys:
Gall cael y cyngor cywir wneud byd o wahaniaeth rhwng llwyddo neu fethu.
Yma ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd mae gennym arbenigedd sy'n cwmpasu lliaws o ddiwydiannau a all eich helpu i ddatblygu eich busnes gyda datrysiadau wedi'u teilwra ar eich cyfer drwy brosiectau ymgynghori a datblygu.
Mae gweithio gyda Met Caerdydd fel gwasanaeth ymgynghori yn ffordd wych o ddatblygu perthynas a gwella'ch prosesau, eich cynhyrchion a'ch gwasanaethau.
Gall ein pobl academaidd ar draws pum ysgol y Brifysgol a'n hunedau masnachol gefnogi busnesau drwy ddefnyddio’r arbenigedd sydd ganddynt i fynd i'r afael ag ystod amrywiol o heriau.
Dim ond un o'r prif lwybrau ar gyfer trosglwyddo gwybodaeth yw ymgynghori – mae’n cyflwyno buddion busnes go iawn sy'n tarddu o'n cryfderau ymchwil.
Ar ôl cymryd yr amser i ddeall eich anghenion, bydd tîm y Gwasanaethau Ymchwil ac Arloesi (RIS) yn nodi arbenigedd academaidd sy'n cyfateb i'ch anghenion.
Mae rhai meysydd y gall RIS a’n hacademyddion eich helpu gyda nhw yn cynnwys:
Os yw eich busnes yn wynebu her sy'n gofyn am wybodaeth nad yw'n bodoli eto, efallai y gall unigolyn academaidd o Met Caerdydd eich helpu i symud ymlaen drwy wneud gwaith ymchwil perthnasol ar eich rhan.
Gall y Gwasanaethau Ymchwil ac Arloesi (RIS) nodi'r arbenigedd academaidd sydd ei angen arnoch a rhoi’r broses ar waith.
Mae Partneriaeth Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth (KTP) yn bartneriaeth a ariennir rhwng cwmni, Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd a graddedig eithriadol (Cydymaith).
Mae tîm y prosiect yn gweithio mewn synergedd i gyflawni prosiect strategol sydd wedi'i gynllunio i ganolbwyntio ar angen y busnes i ddatblygu a thyfu.
Mae Partneriaethau Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth yn mynd i'r afael â bwlch gwybodaeth / gallu o fewn y cwmni drwy gael mynediad at wybodaeth academaidd briodol o'r Brifysgol a'i hymgorffori drwy'r Partner.
Yn 2024, dathlwyd 50 mlynedd o Bartneriaethau Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth ac maent yn gyrru arloesedd a chydweithio rhwng busnesau a phrifysgolion ledled y DU yn gyson.
Mae'r rhaglen arloesol hon wedi cefnogi miloedd o sefydliadau dros y 50 mlynedd i ddatblygu cynhyrchion, prosesau a gwasanaethau newydd trwy eu cysylltu ag arbenigedd academaidd a chefnogi'r broses ymgorffori trwy fframwaith rheoli prosiectau cadarn a phrofedig.
Mae Met Caerdydd wedi chwarae rhan ganolog yn natblygiad Partneriaethau Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth (KTP) yng Nghymru ac i nodi'r garreg filltir 50 mlynedd a ddathlwyd, ochr yn ochr â chymuned Partneriaeth Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth Cymru, yn Adeilad y Pierhead ar 20 Mawrth 2025.
Roedd dau o KTPs Met Caerdydd yn ymddangos yn y ffilm arddangos ar gyfer KTP@50 a grëwyd ar gyfer yr achlysur, ac un ohonynt oedd ein cydweithrediad â Sevenoaks Modular (SOM).
Gwellodd y bartneriaeth hon y prosesau dylunio, gweithgynhyrchu a gosod ar gyfer adeiladau modiwlaidd parod ffrâm bren.
Gwyliwch y ffilm arddangos KTP@50 a gweld y KTP ar waith
Pwy all wneud cais?
Cwmnïau bach a chanolog, elusennau, a chwmnïau mawr.
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth am KTPs dilynwch y ddolen isod:
Cysylltwch â'r tîm i ddarganfod mwy a thrafod eich syniadau at ktp@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Mae Partneriaethau SMART yn cynnig cymorth ariannol gan Lywodraeth Cymru i brosiectau cydweithredol ac arloesol sydd angen cymorth arbenigwyr arnyn nhw i dyfu, i fod yn fwy cynhyrchiol ac yn fwy cystadleuol.
Mae Met Caerdydd wedi cael nifer o brosiectau Partneriaeth SMART llwyddiannus ac mae rhai ohonynt wedi arwain at Bartneriaethau Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth.
I weld rhai astudiaethau achos o'n prosiectau Partneriaeth SMART cliciwch isod:
Astudiaethau Achos Partneriaethau SMART
Nod Partneriaethau SMART yw cefnogi prosiectau cydweithredol, gyda ffocws clir i gynyddu galluedd a galluoedd busnesau Cymru i ddatblygu ymchwil a datblygu.
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth dilynwch y ddolen yma:
Datblygu syniadau ar gyfer busnes, cynhyrchion neu wasanaethau
Gall tîm Swyddfa Ewropeaidd y Gwasanaethau Ymchwil ac Arloesi weithio gyda chi i nodi unrhyw gyllid Ewropeaidd sydd ar gael ar gyfer cydweithio.
I gael gwybod sut y gallwn eich helpu, cysylltwch â business@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Cwmnïau mawr a bach yn dibynnu ar y cyllid.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/zero2five:
ZERO2FIVE Food Industry Centre at Cardiff Metropolitan University combines technical expertise, insight and research to help build more innovative, resilient and sustainable food and drink manufacturing businesses.
Our food and drink industry experts provide a variety of technical and commercial support to companies of all sizes.
This includes support and guidance with food safety compliance, third-party food safety certification (including BRCGS and SALSA), new product development (NPD), process efficiency, waste reduction, considerations for start-ups, bespoke HACCP, factory design, food security, food and labelling legislation, nutrition and market analysis.
Through Project HELIX, we can offer a range of Welsh Government funded technical and commercial support to eligible food and drink manufacturers.
The state-of-the-art facilities within ZERO2FIVE are available for use by businesses.
These include a consumer sensory suite, four pilot sized plants, a development kitchen and a consumer observation kitchen.
Visit our website to find out more.
The ZERO2FIVE Food Industry Centre Food and Drink Research Unit is at the forefront of its field with expertise in food and drink industry-focused research and consumer food safety research in the domestic and healthcare settings.
For more information about the ZERO2FIVE Food and Drink Research Unit and to view the latest publications, conference contributions and news, visit Cardiff Metropolitan University Research Explorer .
If you’d like to find out more about how we can help your business or have any questions about the support we can offer, then please get in touch:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ddoethuriaeth-broffesiynol:
Mae’r Ddoethuriaeth Broffesiynol yn raglen strwythuredig, ond hyblyg, Lefel 8 ar gyfer unigolion sy’n anelu at astudio a gwneud gwahaniaeth i’w gweithle a/neu ymarfer eu hunain.
O ystyried natur y rhaglen, mae ar gael fel opsiwn rhan-amser yn unig.
Mae’r wobr yn addas ar gyfer unigolion yn y gweithle sydd ag uchelgais i ddylanwadu’n gadarnhaol ar y gweithle a/neu eu hymarfer proffesiynol eu hunain.
Byddwch yn symud ymlaen trwy 4 modiwl a gefnogir gan dîm Goruchwylio ac yn cymryd rhan mewn ymarfer myfyriol i werthuso’r newid ymarferol yr ydych wedi’i gynnig trwy eich prosiect.
Mae’r llwybrau sydd ar gael fel a ganlyn:
Hyd a dull astudio: rhan-amser, 4.5-6 blynedd
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth, ac i ddarganfod a oes gennym yr arbenigedd i gefnogi eich maes ymchwil arfaethedig, llenwch y ffurflen hon:
Cofrestru Eich Diddordeb mewn Astudiaethau Ôl-raddedig ac Ymchwil

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/cysylltu-a-ni:
Cyfeiriad Post a Phrif Fanylion Cyswllt
Gwasanaethau Ymchwil ac Arloesi Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd Campws Llandaf 200 Western Avenue​ Caerdydd, CF5 2YB​
​Rhif ffôn: +44 (0) 29 2041 6747
Ar gyfer derbyniadau cyffredinol ac ymholiadau ymgeisio, e-bostiwch askadmissions@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Ar gyfer ymholiadau cyffredinol, e-bostiwch researchadmin@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Ar gyfer ymholiadau myfyrwyr rhyngwladol, e-bostiwch international@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Dewch o hyd i gyfarwyddiadau i'r Prifysgol trwy Google Maps.
Ymunwch â'n rhwydwaith a dilynwch ni ar Linkedin .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/busnes:
Mae Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yn cefnogi busnesau a sefydliadau o bob maint i ysgogi arloesedd, datblygu talent a sgiliau, a chreu effaith barhaol o fewn ystod eang o sectorau.
Drwy ymchwil, arloesi, cyfnewid gwybodaeth a chydweithio, rydym yn cefnogi busnesau’n gyson i ffynnu a thyfu.
Rydym yn darparu mewnwelediad academaidd drwy raglenni a ariennir fel Partneriaethau Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth, yn darparu arbenigedd drwy ymgynghoriaeth, yn cynnig cyfleusterau masnachol neu fynediad at dalent graddedigion sy'n dod i'r amlwg.
P'un a ydych chi'n fusnes newydd, yn fusnes bach a chanolig, yn sefydliad mwy neu o fewn y sector cyhoeddus, rydym yn cynnig cefnogaeth wedi'i theilwra, rhaglenni datblygu arweinyddiaeth a phartneriaethau myfyrwyr/graddedigion i'ch helpu i aros un cam ar y blaen.
Partnerwch gyda ni i gael mynediad at ymchwil, cyfnewid gwybodaeth ac ymgynghoriaeth i ysgogi arloesedd yn eich sefydliad.
Cefnogi ein myfyrwyr, graddedigion, a chyn-fyfyrwyr i ddatblygu sgiliau a syniadau entrepreneuraidd, gydag ariannu ar gael i fusnesau newydd.
Cael mynediad i dalent newydd Met Caerdydd trwy leoliadau gwaith, interniaethau a recriwtio graddedigion.
Archebwch ystafelloedd cynadledda modern, unedau masnachol, a chyfleusterau ar gyfer eich busnes.
Gwella sgiliau arwain a rheoli gyda'n rhaglen datblygiad proffesiynol.
Darganfyddwch sut i weithio gyda Met Caerdydd trwy gyfleoedd caffael a phartneriaethau masnachol.
Darganfyddwch sut y gall Met Caerdydd helpu eich busnes i fynd i'r afael â heriau, ysgogi arloesedd, a chysylltu â thalent.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/transforming-campus-spaces-and-saving-money-and-carbon-at-cardiff-met.php:
An innovative collaboration with a technology start-up has transformed how Cardiff Met manages its campus spaces by harnessing the power of data-driven decision-making to shape sustainable, efficient, and student-focused environments.
AI-powered building analytics software company, SmartViz’s innovative solutions is changing how Cardiff Met manages its campus spaces using cutting-edge technologies, including IoT sensors, occupancy analytics, air quality monitoring, and digital twins.
The approach reveals opportunities within existing buildings at Cardiff Met and enables a data-informed approach to prioritising improvements in the internal environment of the University’s buildings.
Sustainability and student wellbeing at the core
Mapping planning data for actual space needs against a perceived shortage of space, the project’s environmental and occupancy data is informing the development of a strategy that is improving the quality and usage of existing buildings by students and staff in favour of building additional space, putting the quality of space for study at the heart of campus planning.
So far, SmartViz’s solutions have delivered:
Beyond environmental and financial impacts, the project is enhancing student and staff wellbeing through its continued efforts to improve air quality and temperature regulation across campus.
The digital solution gained industry recognition after winning a TechFest Award at the recent Festival of Innovation and Technology.
These awards celebrate projects, teams, and companies that leverage technology to advance construction and civil engineering, attracting entries from some of the UK's largest businesses.
The collaboration was honoured in the ‘Best Use of Technology: Smart Data Collection for Asset Management’ category following SmartViz’s submission of their case study demonstrating how it delivered a sustainable solution that met the needs of the University.
Speaking about the project, President and Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff Metropolitan University, Professor Rachael Langford, said: “SmartViz’s approach was not just about providing rich insights but engaging us in interpreting that data to make well-informed decisions about our campus development.
“The use of their technology has been transformative in challenging our preconceptions about space needs.
The rich data obtained has not only informed our decisions but has also facilitated meaningful discussions across the University community.”
Reflecting on winning the award, founder and CEO of SmartViz, Dr.
Shrikant B.
Sharma said: “Winning this award alongside Cardiff Metropolitan University is a testament to the power of collaboration and innovation.
Together, we’ve demonstrated how data-driven and people-centred decision-making can drive financial and environmental sustainability while creating better environments for students and staff.
“Cardiff Met's forward-thinking leadership has been instrumental to this success, and I’m deeply grateful for their trust.
Winning against industry giants validates our ability to revolutionise how spaces are managed and inspires us to continue empowering organisations with actionable insights to build sustainable, efficient, and people-centred spaces.”
Learn more about SmartViz and our award-winning collaboration here: https://www.smart-viz.com/cardiff-metropolitan-university

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-met-students-and-athletes-to-benefit-from-new-partnership-with-nutrition-x.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University has announced a new partnership with Nutrition X , a leading sports nutrition company recognised for supporting elite athletes and professional sports clubs.
The collaboration aims to enhance the educational and practical opportunities available to students and improve support for performance athletes at the University.
The new partnership will give students access to Nutrition X’s educational portal, featuring resources created by leading scientists and athletes.
These materials will give students a deeper understanding of sports nutrition and its role in optimising athletic performance.
Students on Cardiff Met’s postgraduate Nutrition for Sport and Exercise programmes and the BSc Sport and Exercise Science will also have more opportunities to apply their knowledge in a professional context as a result of the new partnership.
Michael Peacock, Head of Performance Services at Cardiff Met, said: “We are excited to partner with Nutrition X to support our athletes with high-quality nutrition and offer opportunities to learn from and engage with industry leaders.
“We’re aligned in our commitment to education, focusing on a food-first approach, personalised support plans, and empowering individuals to achieve their best.
This partnership strengthens our ability to deliver innovative, real-world learning experiences while ensuring our multi-sport environment continues to thrive.”
The partnership supports Cardiff Met’s holistic approach to athlete development, emphasising person-centred support and fostering an environment where both students and athletes can excel academically and physically.
Performance Sport students will receive a discount code unique to Cardiff Met to purchase hardware and nutrition products.
James Barham, Club Partnerships Manager at Nutrition X, added: “It’s a privilege to partner with Cardiff Metropolitan University, an institution that shares our passion for combining education with performance.
By collaborating with such a forward-thinking university, we aim to equip students with practical insights and tools to support athletes at every level.
This partnership exemplifies how education and sport can come together to create meaningful impact.”

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2024/cardiff-met-receives-two-awards-recognising-ongoing-commitment-to--fairtrade-and-sustainability.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University has been recogised in the Fairtrade University and College Awards 2024 and achieved three stars in the in the Food Made Good Standard.
The University gained Fairtrade status in recognition of its commitment to promoting ethical consumerism and pushing for fairer wages for farmers and workers.
The Fairtrade programme supports institutions to embed ethical and sustainable practices through their curriculums, procurement, research and campaigns.
The Fairtrade University and College Award has been awarded to UK universities and colleges championing Fairtrade since 2003, with 22 universities receiving the award in 2024.
It is jointly delivered by the Fairtrade Foundation and SOS-UK.
In addition to the standard award, institutions can meet optional criteria to achieve additional 'stars' for the award, with Cardiff Met awarded an additional one-star status.
The award will remain valid for two years.
Cardiff Met has also achieved three stars in the Food Made Good Standard - the only 360-degree, holistic sustainability accreditation which evaluates impact across the three pillars of Sourcing, Society and Environment.
The University received exceptional scores with 98% on Society and 95% in Environment and was praised for it's work to improve the health impact of menus, and efforts to create a diverse, inclusive and welcoming workplace.
Rachel Roberts, Sustainability Engagement Manager at Cardiff Metropolitan University, said: “We are delighted to be recognised in the Fairtrade University and College Award 2024 and Food Made Good Standard.
These awards are recognition that the University has embedded ethical and sustainable practices throughout our curriculum, procurement, research and campaigns."
Universities have carried out a range of activities, from increasing the range of Fairtrade products sold on campus to give students greater choice, to influencing and connecting with local campaign groups.
Sarah Brazier, Head of Campaigns at the Fairtrade Foundation, said: “This year marks 30 years of Fairtrade products on shelves in the UK and sees our biggest ever cohort of universities taking part in the Fairtrade Universities scheme.
“We are so excited to continue our work with students across the UK, whether that is the universities that come back to voice their support year after year, or the newcomers to our campaign for change.
We hope even more universities take part next year and continue to engage with and promote Fairtrade on their campuses."
Read more about how Cardiff Met supports Fairtrade each year on the University webpage.
For more information on what Fairtrade is and why Cardiff Met support Fairtrade products, go to the Fairtrade Foundation Website.
Read more about the Food Made Good Standard on their website.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2024/cardiff-met-wins-business-excellence-award-for-exceptional-partnership-results-with-malaysia.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University has been named winner of a prestigious British Excellence Award.
Now in its fifth year, the UK-Malaysia Educational Institutional Partnership Award 2024 is hosted by the British Malaysia Chamber of Commerce.
The award honours a UK higher or further education institution that has partnered with a Malaysian organisation to deliver significant impact, and contributed exceptional results and value creation to the education sector in Malaysia, capitalising on the best of UK and Malaysia expertise.
Cardiff Met's strategic partnership with Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) produced reputational enhancements and significant contributions through successful grant applications and innovative initiatives like a dual PhD programme for STEM engagements.
This collaboration's portfolio included championing gender equity and science communication, and demonstrated a long-lasting partnership that has great potential for progress.
With eight partners from three countries (UK-Malaysia-Indonesia) the Partnership for Innovation in Employability (PIE) set out to establish strategic links between the lead partners in the UK and Malaysia - Cardiff Met and UiTM – along with other partnering organisations, and to create academia and industry partnerships.
Dr Esyin Chew, Reader in Robotics and Educational Technologies at Cardiff Metropolitan University, said: “I am humbled and honoured to have developed the Partnership for Innovation in Employability for Women in STEAM-H programme with UiTM.
This work impacts so many women across universities, hospitals and schools in Wales and Malaysia, especially those in underprivileged communities."
The strategic partnership between Cardiff Met and UiTM has been supported by British Council Catalyst Grants and institutional matched funding from both the PIE Programme for Women in STEM and the PIE Programme II for Women in STEAM-H (Healthcare), with over £185,000 invested.
The global Partnership in Education for Women in STEAM-H (Science, Technology, Engineering, Agriculture, Maths and Healthcare) programme, enhanced international opportunities of ethical robotics and safe AI in teaching and educational related research.
The PIE partnership between UiTM and Cardiff Met has fostered the first dual-PhD programme between two universities, the first satellite lab EUREKA Nexus Lab launched in November 2023 and University guest lectures for Social Media Analytics and postgraduate co-supervision.
Ir.
Dr.
Rozita Jailani, Associate Professor at College of Engineering, Universiti Teknologi MARA, said: "I am deeply grateful for this collaboration, especially with the talented Dr Chew from Cardiff Metropolitan University, which has led to this recognition.
Looking ahead, we are excited about the prospects of securing more joint research grants, which will further enhance our ability to contribute to the global academic community.
This partnership not only strengthens the ties between both institutions but also enriches the educational landscape for our students and university.
Together, we are shaping a future of innovation, excellence, and shared success."
Further information on the Business Excellence Award 2024 can be found on their website.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/busnes/cysylltwch-a-ni:
Gwasanaethau Ymchwil ac Arloesi Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd Campws Llandaf 200 Rhodfa’r Gorllewin Caerdydd CF5 2YB
Rhif Ffô​n: +44 (0) 292 041 6747 ​E-bost: business@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Cael cyfarwyddiadau gan Google Maps
Linkedin Ymunwch â'n Rhwydwaith

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/busnes/recriwtio-ein-graddedigion:
​​​​Mae trosoli gwybodaeth ac arbenigoedd Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yn golygu llawer mwy na recriwtio graddedigion.
Mae yna gyfoeth o gyfleoedd i helpu i fynd i'r afael a'ch anghenion a'ch gofynion busnes.
Gallwn gynnig cyngor a'ch cynorthwyo i nodi'r camau priodol sy'n ofynnol i weithio gyda'n myfyrwyr a llawer mwy!
Gwybodaeth Gwasanaethau Gyrfa i Gyflogwyr
Recriwtio talent a dod â syniadau newydd i'ch sefydliad.
Recriwtio ein Myfyrwyr

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau/cyrsiau-byr/cymorth-i-dyfu-reoli:
Ydych chi’n arweinydd mewn busnes bach neu ganolig?
Ydych chi eisiau tyfu neu wella gwytnwch eich busnes?
Ymunwch â’r miloedd o arweinwyr busnesau bach yn y DU sydd wedi cwblhau Cymorth i Dyfu: Cwrs Reoli.
Wedi’i gyflwyno gan Ysgol Reoli Caerdydd a’i achredu i’r Siarter Busnesau Bach, mae Cymorth i Dyfu: Cwrs Reoli yn cynnwys 50 awr o hyfforddiant manwl, mentora busnes 1:1, a’r cyfle i dyfu eich busnes a gwella gwytnwch eich busnes.
Wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer uwch arweinwyr yn unig, mae’r cwrs yn cynnwys strategaethau ar gyfer twf ac arloesi, arwain timau perfformiad uchel a mabwysiadu digidol, yn ogystal â rheolaeth ariannol ac arferion busnes cyfrifol.
Byddwch yn clywed gan arweinwyr busnes ysbrydoledig ac yn dysgu ochr yn ochr â chymheiriaid lleol, gyda mynediad i rwydwaith cyn-fyfyrwyr cenedlaethol.
Erbyn diwedd y cwrs byddwch yn datblygu cynllun twf busnes wedi’i deilwra i gynyddu cynhyrchiant a thyfu eich refeniw, a helpu i fynd â’ch busnes i’r lefel nesaf.
Diogelu eich busnes ar gyfer y dyfodol heddiw a chofrestru ar gwrs ym Met Caerdydd .
Bydd y rhaglen yn ymdrin â meysydd allweddol o arweinyddiaeth gan gynnwys:
Ar ben hyn, byddwch yn ehangu eich rhwydwaith busnes drwy weithio ochr yn ochr ag arweinwyr busnes eraill sy’n cymryd rhan yn y rhaglen.
I ymuno â Cymorth i Dyfu: Cwrs Reoli , rhaid i’ch busnes:
I ymuno â Cymorth i Dyfu: Cwrs Reoli , rhaid i’r ymgeisydd:
Ar gyfer ymholiadau cwrs-benodol neu i wneud cais, cysylltwch â thîm Cymorth i Dyfu: Reoli ym Met Caerdydd:
E-bost: htgm@cardiffmet.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/busnes/unedau-masnachol:
Mae'n cyflwyno hyfforddiant arweinyddiaeth o'r radd flaenaf i arweinwyr y dyfodol mewn sefydliadau’r sector preifat a'r sector cyhoeddus.
Ymwelwch wefan 20Twenty .
Mae'r Ganolfan yn cynnal amrywiaeth o brosiectau mewn cysylltiad â chyrff allanol i gefnogi eu hanghenion dadansoddol.
Ymwelwch dudalen Pure Dadnsoddiad Perfformiad Chwaraeon .
P’un a ydych chi’n cynnal cynhadledd fawr, cwrs hyfforddi, cyfarfod, arddangosfa neu ddigwyddiad chwaraeon, mae gan Brifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd ystod eang o gyfleusterau a gwasanaethau ar gael, gyda staff cyfeillgar a phrofiadol wrth law i sicrhau bod eich digwyddiad yn llwyddiannus.
Cliciwch ar y dolen i weld beth sydd gan Wasanaethau Cynadledda Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd .
Gweithdy yw FabLab Caerdydd sydd â'r dechnoleg gweithgynhyrchu digidol ddiweddaraf y gellir ei defnyddio gan ddylunwyr, artistiaid a'r cyhoedd, yn ogystal â chwmnïau a sefydliadau eraill.
Wedi'i achredu gan y Rhwydwaith Fab byd-eang, gall defnyddwyr fanteisio ar waith ymchwil ac arbenigedd Ysgol Gelf a Dylunio Caerdydd i wneud bron popeth.
Am ragor o wybodaeth, ewch i wefan FabLab Caerdydd .
Mae hwn yn cefnogi busnesau bwyd yn dechnegol ac yn weithredol, gan eu galluogi i gystadlu'n fwy effeithiol yn y farchnad fyd-eang.
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth, ewch i wefan ZERO2Five .
Y PDR yw un o'r canolfannau ymgynghori ar ddylunio ac ymchwil cymhwysol gorau yn y byd.
Dysgwch fwy am y Ganolfan drwy ymweld â gwefan PDR Design .
Am ragor o wybodaeth, e-bostiwch cshs@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/busnes/gwasanaethau-cynadleddau:
P’un a oes angen i chi logi ystafell gynadledda fawr, ystafell hyfforddi TG, ystafelloedd cyfarfod, canolfan arddangos neu leoliadau chwaraeon, mae gan Brifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd ystod helaeth o gyfleusterau ar gael.
Rydym yn cynnig lleoliadau cynadledda ac ystafelloedd cyfarfod gydag amgylchedd cadarnhaol ac opsiwn gwahanol i westy arferol.
Mae staff cyfeillgar a phrofiadol y ganolfan gynadledda wrth law trwy gydol eich diwrnod i sicrhau digwyddiad llwyddiannus.
Mae dau leoliad i ddewis ohonynt sydd yn agos at Gaerdydd, prifddinas Cymru, ac mae’r ddau yn hawdd eu cyrraedd o'r M4 a chyda pharcio ar y safle.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/conferences-and-events:
Whether you are planning a residential conference, exhibition, meeting or training session, Cardiff Met Conferences have purpose built, contemporary facilities and a friendly and experienced team to ensure a successful event.
Facilities include numerous break-out rooms and tiered lecture theatres , a dedicated conference suite , a self-contained hospitality suite , IT training rooms, and exhibition space.
We have 800+ single bedrooms available during the summer months, which can be booked for individual travellers, groups and conferences.
At Cyncoed Campus we have various catering outlets, extensive indoor and outdoor sports facilities and a licensed bar, making the venue ideal for hosting Residential Conferences and Training Camps.
A variety of B&B, half board and full board packages can be made available to suit all requirements and budgets.
Facilities are located at three locations all close to the city centre, with easy access from the M4 and parking on site.
For further information or to arrange a site visit, please contact us​ .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/hospitality-suite:
A contemporary, purpose built facility located in the School of Management building at Llandaff Campus.
The room has comfortable flexible furniture, natural daylight, built in audio visual equipment.
The Suite has Its own dedicated entrance and lounge area is ideal for hospitality service and networking before or after your event.
​The Suite can be arranged in a boardroom, cabaret or theatre style to suit your event.
A dedicated conference coordinator will welcome you and be on hand during the day.​​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/conference-suite:
​The Conference Suite at Cyncoed Campus has been fully refurbished offering fresh and contemporary meeting rooms in Cardiff.
The conference rooms can accommodate up to 80 people and include free Wi-Fi and large Clevertouch screens for presentation.
All rooms are located on the ground floor and close to the main reception, the Conference Suite is an ideal venue for meetings, training sessions and small to medium sized conferences.
For information about our other meeting rooms, training suites, conference rooms and lecture theatres, click here .
The experienced and friendly Conference Team are close at hand to ensure your event is a great success.
The Conference Suite is comprised of three meeting rooms, two of which can be opened out to provide one large meeting room.
All three rooms provide the same contemporary furnishings, with natural daylight and optimal in-room lighting.
To see full details of room layouts, dimensions and capacities, click here .
You may also be interested in our online Conference and Events ​Brochure .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/conference-suite-capacities:
​The Conference Rooms are located on the ground floor close to the main reception.
They all benefit from natural daylight as well as good in-room lighting.
There are no pillars or obstructions in these rooms and they are equipped with the latest audio-visual equipment.
With flexible seating you can choose from a variety of room lay-outs including Boardroom, Theatre, Cabaret or Classroom Style.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/lecture-theatres-and-seminar-rooms:
The University has a variety of lecture theatres and seminar rooms available for hire.
Whether you're arranging a meeting for a small number of people or arranging a large conference we can accommodate your needs.
All our rooms have full audio visual equipment built in and Wifi is available on site.
For further information and assistance with coordinating your event please do not hesitate to contact us .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/hospitality:
We offer an extensive range of hospitality options; please see our Cardiff Met Hospitality Menu ​.
Food is of a high standard with 'Eat Well' healthy eating options and menus to suit all dietary requirements.
Hospitality charges are listed in the brochure excluding VAT, which is chargeable at the prevailing rate.
There are a variety of contemporary hospitality outlets available on campus, including our Hub Food Court and The Gallery .
Catering at Cardiff Met hold a Gold Award from Cardiff City Council for their healthy options and all our catering outlets have a four star or above food hygiene rating.
Cardiff Met has a strong focus on sustainable catering and has achieved Fairtrade status, helping to reduce the impact and improve environmental standards of events.
Whatever your event and budget, we will create a catering package to meet your needs.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/day-delegate-rates:
Our Day Delegate Packages are all-inclusive, providing everything you need for a successful meeting.
Your event will run smoothly with our hi-tech equipment, dedicated Conference Co-ordinator and award winning, sustainable and fair-trade hospitality.
£35.00 per person (+ VAT)
£39.00 per person (+ VAT)
* Fully interactive touchscreen TV’s in the Conference Rooms
Minimum numbers apply.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/accommodation:
If you are looking for budget accommodation or an alternative to a hostel, guest house or hotel then Cardiff Metropolitan University can provide the ideal solution.
From late June - early September we offer accommodation for families, groups and individual travellers.​ Book now using our Accommodation Booking Form .
En-suite single bedrooms are available from £45.00 per night at Plas Gwyn and Cyncoed Campus, both located close to the city centre with main public transport links and on-site car parking.
All rooms are provided with bed linen and a towel and have use of a shared kitchen with TV and seating area.
Plas Gwyn Campus is located in the Cathedral village of Llandaff with shops, restaurants and pubs very close by.
With the Taff Trail just minutes away you can enjoy a pleasant walk along the river side to reach Cardiff City Centre or a jog or cycle ride to reach Castell Coch.
Cyncoed Campus is located a short walk from the scenic Roath Park lake to the north of the City and a short walk from the Albany Road shopping centre​.
Cyncoed Campus also has a pool and gym for anyone wanting to continue with their exercise regime during their stay.
For larger groups, extended stays and residential conferences please contact the Conference Team for rates and availability.
Click the following links to view a virtual tour of our Cyncoed Campus bedrooms:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/accommodation-booking-form:
To check availability of bedrooms for residential conferences or group bookings, please contact us .
For further information, guest reviews, directions and photos please click on the links below.
Your browser does not appear to support frames.
Please click here to go to the booking system.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/conference-services/contact-us:
Cardiff Met’s modern, flexible facilities are the perfect setting for your next event, meeting, or conference – offering a professional environment with excellent transport links, on-site catering, and dedicated support.
A range of affordable accommodation options is also available, ideal for delegates attending events in the capital city.
To find out more or receive tailored assistance with your enquiry, contact the team via conferenceservices@cardiffmet.ac.uk or fill in the form below.
Thank you for your interest in Cardiff Met Conferencing.
Please note that we are now fully booked for the summer period due to a high volume of external events taking place across our campuses.
It’s an incredibly busy season for us, and we appreciate your patience during this time.
We are still welcoming enquiries for bookings from September 2025 onwards .
However, due to current demand, please allow up to 5 working days for a response to any new booking requests.
We appreciate your understanding and look forward to welcoming you to Cardiff Metropolitan University in the near future.
Thank you for your patience, Cardiff Met Conferencing Team

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/busnes/prosesau-caffael:
Croeso i dudalennau'r adran Gaffael ar gyfer Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd.
Mae'r adran yn darparu gwybodaeth, cyngor a chefnogaeth i holl ysgolion ac adrannau'r brifysgol sy'n ymdrin â phob agwedd ar gaffael.
Mae Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yn cymryd rhan weithredol yng Nghonsortiwm Pwrcasu Addysg Uwch Cymru (HEPCW).
Mae'r brifysgol hefyd yn cefnogi Gwasanaethau Caffael Cenedlaethol Cymru ac yn cefnogi'r cysyniadau o gydweithio yn y sector cyhoeddus ehangach.
Os hoffech ddysgu rhagor am brosesau caffael Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd neu wybod sut i ddod yn gyflenwr i'r brifysgol neu i HEPCW, ewch Gwybodaeth i Ddarparwyr Gyflenwyr .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/procurement/information-for-prospective-suppliers:
This page provides information about supplying goods and services to Cardiff Metropolitan University.​
The majority of goods and servic​es purchased by the university are in accordance with contracts created either by the university itself or through HEPCW or in collaboration with other like-minded public-sector organisations.
Many of the contracts we let as a university are subject to the Public Contracts Regulations.
The university operates a centrally-led procurement structure, with fully devolved ordering.
Whilst our schools and units have reasonable autonomy in their purchases, most of our expenditure falls within the scope of existing supply agreements.
Where such agreements are in place, our schools and units are required to support them.
We also expect prospective suppliers to respect both the agreements that are in place and our end-users support of those contracts.
Consequently, in order to supply to the university, any potential supplier needs to achieve either 'preferred' or 'approved' supplier status.
We aim to ensure all our business is conducted in accordance with our Procurement Business Principles ​ and expect our suppliers to work with the same objectives and ideals.
The university also fully supports the principles set out in the Welsh Government's Procurement Policy Statement .
Preferred suppliers are those who have been successful in bidding for tendered requirements.
These tendered opportunities fall into two broad categories - either above or below the threshold at which the Public Contract Regulations apply.
The Public Contract Regulations apply to all public organisations letting contracts above a certain value, currently £170,781.60 exc.
VAT for goods and services.
Public organisations are obliged to 'advertise' all opportunities worth more than this value threshold in the UK's Find a Tender Service (FTS).
These opportunities can be found by searching either the Find a Tender Service or Sell2Wales .
Please note that we publish all our contract notices through Sell2Wales, so to search opportunities advertised​ by Cardiff Metropolitan University, you only need to be registered on Sell2Wales - you will receive free email notifications of relevant opportunities.
A summary of the requirements of the PCR may be found below under the Public Contract Regulations heading below.
Extensive guidance for businesses, including how to understand and engage with public procurement in Wales may be found on the Sell2Wales website.
Approved suppliers are those who have demonstrated, generally through a competitive quotation or tender exercise, their suitability to supply the university.
As with preferred suppliers, unless PCR thresholds are exceeded, when undertaking quotation exercises we usually invite suppliers who are registered on Sell2Wales.
All of our contracts and Purchase Orders are subject to specific contract terms and conditions arising out of a formal tender process or Purchase Orders.
These are based upon the university's Standard Terms of Contract for Goods and Services or upon the Terms and Conditions for the Purchase and Installation of Goods .
No deviation from these standard terms is permissible unless formally agreed by the procurement team, purchasing@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
The Public Contract Regulations 2015, known as the PCR, govern how public sector procurement should be undertaken.
If the value of a proposed contract exceeds certain thresholds then, as with all public organisations, we are required by law to comply with the rules and procedures contained within the PCR.
Post Brexit, the UK government has adopted and implemented many of the previous rules and regulations of the European Union and these have been transposed into UK legislation.
The PCR requires any contracts where the total value over the term of the contract exceeds specified thresholds (which do vary considerably, but for goods and services are currently £213, 477 including VAT) to be advertised in advance in the UK’s Find a Tender Service (which has now replaced the Official Journal of the European Union).
In Wales contract notices for public sector procurements are advertised on Sell2Wales and if the contract value exceeds the thresholds, the contract notice will be simultaneously posted on the UK’s Find a Tender Service by Sell2Wales.
The contract notice will detail the procurement procedure being utilised and detail any time limits for tender opportunities.
It is recommended that all prospective suppliers register and maintain a current profile on both Sell2Wales and the Find a Tender Service.
Due to the collaborative nature of HEPCW contracts, the combined spend of the participating universities ensures that virtually all HEPCW contracts exceed the PCR thresholds and are let through these processes, with the requirement advertised in FTS.
As HEPCW is not a legal entity in its own right, the member institutions share the contacting activity, and therefore any contract notice or PIN would be in the name of the 'lead' institution for that contract.
Please visit the HEPCW site for more information and a list of the member institutions.
Cardiff Metropolitan University, like a growing number of other public organisations, is utilising electronic trading with our regular, preferred suppliers via the Basware Marketplace .
Electronic trading ('e-trading') can introduce significant process improvements for both the University and its suppliers.
The process links the University and suppliers either through supplier catalogues hosted on the Basware Marketplace or through punch-out catalogues and 'full systems integration', also through this portal.
A 'Frequently Asked Questions' guide for supplier to this e-marketplace can be found here .
Sell2Wales is the Welsh public sector portal that brings together Welsh public sector buyers and the supply market.
There is no charge for suppliers to register on Sell2Wales, and registered suppliers receive email alerts of all relevant contract opportunities posted on Sell2Wales, both above and below the PCR thresholds, as well as have an opportunity to register details about their organisations.
This notification service is reliant upon suppliers registering with the correct Common Procurement Vocabulary (CPV) codes - there is guidance on the Sell2Wales site about CPV codes.​
If you are, or wish to be, registered on Sell2Wales, we strongly recommend that the main contact email address is a 'generic' address, such as sales@ or information@ - we have seen many examples where communication on opportunities has been lost due to the main registered email address belonging to a staff member on holiday, maternity leave or no longer with the company.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/business/procurement/procurement-business-principles:
These Principles are intended to provide an overview of the ethical standards and procedural requirements that Cardiff Metropolitan University strives to adopt in all its procurement business dealings, as well as provide background information into some of our business practices.
Cardiff Metropolitan University strives to conduct all business activities in a professional and ethical manner; to ensure fair and equal opportunities and treatment in both our direct and indirect supply chains; to ensure that business decisions are taken without prejudice or discrimination; that care is taken of the environment; that we operate our business with full regard for health and safety; and that the principles of social value are delivered through our tendering activity and contracts.
The university is accredited by the Living Wage Foundation and all university staff are paid the real living wage as a minimum.
We strongly encourage our suppliers and contractors to make a commitment to Living Wage Foundation and to endorse the principles detailed below.
​This page provides information about supplying goods and services to Cardiff Metropolitan University.
The university attempts to uphold strong ethical standards in all aspects of business.
As a standard for the Procurement department itself, we follow the Professional Code of Ethics of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply.
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 applies to all the activities of the university.
As a supplier/tenderer/partner/customer/agency providing services to the university, you should be aware of the university's obligations and its responsibilities under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 to provide on request access to recorded information held by it.
One of the consequences of those statutory responsibilities is that information which the university holds about your organisation may be subject to disclosure, in response to a request, unless the university decides that one of the various statutory exemptions applies.
If, at any stage of the contracting process, you provide information to the university in the expectation that it will be held in confidence, then you must make it clear in your documentation which elements of the information to which you consider a duty of confidentiality applies.
The use of blanket protective markings such as "commercial in confidence" will no longer be appropriate and a clear indication as to what material is to be considered confidential and why​ should be given.
Whilst the university will use all reasonable endeavours to keep confidential and not disclose any information supplied and marked as 'commercial in confidence', we can only maintain that confidentiality to the limit allowed by the legislation.
The university cannot accept that trivial information or information which by its very nature cannot be regarded as confidential should be subject to any obligation of confidence.
In certain circumstances, and in accordance with the Code of Practice issued under section 45 of the Act, the university may consider it appropriate to ask for your views as to the release of any information before the university makes its decision as to how to respond to a request.
In dealing with requests for information under the Act, the university has to comply with a strict timetable and it would therefore expect a timely response to any such consultation within five working days
In certain circumstances where information has not been provided in confidence, the university may still wish to consult you as to the application of any other exemption such as that relating to disclosure that will prejudice the commercial interests of any party.
However the decision as to what information will be disclosed will be reserved to Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Cardiff Metropolitan University seeks to incorporate Community Benefits into all relevant procurement arrangements.
The University upholds the principles of equality and diversity in all aspects of its procurement operations, including its direct and indirect supply chains, and does so in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Welsh Government’s Ethical Employment in Supply Chains Code of Practice .
These principles and commitments are reflected in the University’s Ethical Supply Chains Policy .
We require our suppliers and contractors to adopt a similar approach to that set out in our Ethical Supply Chains policy so there is a consistent and co-ordinated approach to the identification and eradication of all forms of inequality and modern slavery in these supply chains.
If any person has identified any employment practices in the University’s supply chains that may be considered to be unlawful or unethical, please email your observations to whistleblowing@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
SUSTAIN CODE OF CONDUCT
The University is committed to utilising the Sustain Supply Chain Code of Conduct which has been developed by APUC and collaboratively endorsed by and reviewed by the Sustain Project, members including APUC, LUPC, HEPA, EAUC, various HE/FE institutional Procurement and Sustainability leaders, NUS (and other student associations) and People & Planet.
The SUSTAIN project is a sector wide collaboration to establish a single supply chain code of conduct for use across the HE and FE sectors.
As part of any procurement tendering process, you are required to review the Sustain Code of Conduct which is included in the tender documentation and as a potential Contractor to the University commit to the responsible procurement principles within it.
You will be required to return a signed version of the Sustain Code of Conduct as part of any tender submission.
LIVING WAGE
The University is an accredited Living Wage employer and as such has pledged to ensure that all employees are paid the Living Wage as a minimum.
To ensure equal treatment, in its key out-sourced contracts the University requires out-sourced staff who are directly working on our contracts to also be paid the Living Wage and to receive the wage increase each year, where we are legally able to do so.
Opening Doors Charter
The University has signed up to Welsh Government's " Opening Doors" charter , which recognises the economic and sustainability benefits that can accrue from trading with businesses based in one's local area and ensuring that it is easier for smaller supplier to participate in public sector procurement.
It should be noted that this charter does NOT promote any scenario that introduces any discrimination or favouritism towards local suppliers.
In addition to the above the University has adopted the Welsh Government Procurement Policy Notes 05/21 and 07/21 on SME friendly procurement and applies these policies where appropriate and permissable.
We continue to welcome all business opportunities with SMEs.
Welsh Procurement Policy Statement ('WPPS')
The University endorses the principles of the WPPS .
In the context of small, local and supported business, the University embraces principles 3 and 5.
In practice, this means the University:
includes the use of appropriate 'lotting strategies' in all relevant procurements
utilises the UK's selection questionnaire offering a UK wide consistent approach to pre-qualification
utilises an electronic tendering tool to assist in making all opportunities open and accessible
accepts consortium or joint bids
applies fair payment terms of 30 days from receipt of a correct invoice
only applies 'financial turnover thresholds' where appropriate on a project requirement basis
publishes contract opportunity and contract award notices on Sell2Wales
do not assume that large suppliers deliver better value for money
complies with all procurement legislation especially the principles of non-discrimination, openness, fairness and transparency
adopt a wide-ranging approach of value for money which includes social value and encourage all our suppliers to do the same
continue to invest in the professional qualifications that all the Procurement team currently hold by through continual professional development to ensure we remain up to date with all UK and Welsh Government Procurement Policy guidance.
Further information on the above principles may be found on the supplier section of the Sell2Wales website and support for businesses from Welsh Government may be obtained from Business Wales .
Cardiff Metropolitan University recognises a wide definition of social value which includes sustainability.
Sustainability is based upon engaging in developments that meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
Cardiff Metropolitan University procurement actively seeks to embed sustainability within all aspects of its' procurement activity.
Cardiff Metropolitan University's Sustainable Procurement Policy is approved by Cardiff Metropolitan University's Board of Governors, and is consistent with Cardiff Metropolitan University's organisations ​ Sustainability Policy .​ Further information regarding Cardiff Metropolitan University's engagement with all aspects of sustainability can be found on our sustainability web page .
Payment Terms​
Cardiff Metropolitan University's standard payment terms are 30 days from receipt of invoice.
The University is very conscious of the beneficial impact of on-time payment of creditor invoices.
However, our payment commitment is based on the receipt of correctly presented invoices.
It must be noted that our terms of business dictate that any invoices received without a valid Purchase Order number will be rejected and returned to the supplier for correction and re-presentation.
Unsolicited Goods
Cardiff Metropolitan University does not accept liability or responsibility in any way whatsoever for any unsolicited goods or services.
'Unsolicited goods' means any goods received or services performed where the supplier is not in receipt of a valid instruction to deliver goods or proceed with the performance of services.
In the vast majority of cases, the only method of communicating a 'valid instruction' is the supplier being in receipt of a valid Cardiff Metropolitan University Purchase Order.
In a limited number of cases, other methods of instruction to proceed are utilised, but these methods are only valid if agreed by both parties in writing, and in advance.
Consequently, unless a variation from Purchase Orders is agreed in writing, all delivery and invoice documentation must clearly display a valid Cardiff Metropolitan University Purchase Order number.
Any submitted invoices that are incorrect or incomplete will be automatically returned unpaid for correction and re-submission.
Any invoices submitted where a Purchase Order or valid instruction to proceed has not been received by the supplier will be rejected.​​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met:
Mae chwaraeon yn rhan o'r DNA yma ym Met Caerdydd, lle rydym wedi cefnogi a datblygu ystod eang o athletwyr Olympaidd a Rhyngwladol trwy gydol ein hanes.​​
Mae Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd yn cynnig cyfleusterau chwaraeon rhagorol ac amrywiaeth eang o weithgareddau i ddarparu ar gyfer pawb, o athletwyr elitaidd i fyfyrwyr, staff a'r gymuned ehangach.
Darganfyddwch fwy gan fynd ar daith awyr o'n cyfleusterau chwaraeon o'r radd flaenaf ar Gampws Cyncoed.
Ar y tudalennau hyn fe welwch wybodaeth am raglenni chwaraeon iau a'r gymuned, perfformiad chwaraeon, rhaglenni chwaraeon i fyfyrwyr, cynlluniau aelodaeth iechyd a ffitrwydd, a llawer mwy.​
Mynediad at amserlenni, cyfleusterau a chyfleusterau archebu—i gyd mewn un lle.
Byddwch yn gyfoes â phopeth sy’n ymwneud â Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport:
During term time, over 2,800 children (aged 5 years+) attend a variety of sports programmes organised by Cardiff Met Sport.
We also run sport courses during the school holidays, and during both Easter and summer holidays we operate Sports Camps—a multi-activity camp for children aged 4–18 years.
We also offer sport-specific summer camps, which can be booked through the Cardiff Met Sport App .
In addition to our on-campus programmes, Cardiff Met Community Sport delivers a wide range of sport, physical activity, and wellbeing opportunities across local communities through our Met Community Team.
These programmes include school-club links, community sport hubs, inclusive sport initiatives, and outreach activities that promote lifelong participation in sport and physical activity.
Making full use of our extensive facilities, we encourage children to remain active, develop their skills and interact with friends, giving them a healthy and active approach to life.
Head to our Cardiff Met Sport App FAQ’s section to find the answer.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/volunteer-zambia:
Volunteer Zambia is an international sport programme run by the Wallace Group, a collaboration between leading UK sport universities.
The Wallace Group supports and works with the leading Zambian Sports NGO, Sport in Action.
Together, sport is used to engage, educate, and empower young people in Zambia and the UK.
Working in partnership with Durham, Edinburgh, Loughborough, Northumbria, St Andrews and Stirling universities, Cardiff Met has recruited 6 students and 3 staff members to work and live in Zambia between June – September 2024.
The universities that form the Wallace Group share a commitment to the establishment and sustainable practices of international development and work with our primary partner, the NGO Sport in Action, the Zambian government, and other sport stakeholders to support the delivery of Zambia's sports strategy in relation to young people and sustainable community participation.
To utilise the collective knowledge and experience across the institutions to co-design sustainable sport development programmes that provide pathways for increasing participation and create opportunities for education and leadership, and by doing so enhance the lives of young people in Zambia (and beyond).
Find out more about Volunteer Zambia and Sport in Action .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/events:
The National Indoor Athletics Centre (NIAC) is utilised for a variety of sporting and non-sporting events throughout the year.
Find out about upcoming events in the National Indoor Athletics Centre through the Cardiff Met Sport App .
If you would like to enquire about booking an event at the National Indoor Athletics Centre, please contact sportbookings@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
For information about parking, please view all available car parks at Cardiff Met's Cyncoed Campus .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/contact-us:
Cardiff Metropolitan University Cyncoed Campus Cyncoed Road Cardiff CF23 6XD
Telephone: 029 2041 6777
Email: sport@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Telephone: 029 2041 6743 (Cyncoed) or 029 2041 6779 (Llandaff)
Email: metactive@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Students Union Cyncoed Campus Cyncoed Road Cardiff CF23 6XD
Telephone: 029 2041 6190
Email: auadmin@cardiffmet.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-universities-centre-of-cricketing-excellence-crowned-national-champions-after-historic-win-over-loughborough.php:
Cardiff UCCE have been crowned BUCS National Champions after a dominant victory over Loughborough on Friday at Wormsley, capping off a phenomenal summer for university cricket in south Wales.
Cardiff UCCE is one of only five University Centres of Cricketing Excellence in the UK and is delivered through a unique partnership between Cardiff Metropolitan University, Cardiff University, the University of South Wales (USW), and Glamorgan County Cricket Club.
The programme provides a high-performance environment for student athletes, blending elite sport with academic achievement.
Cardiff UCCE batted first, racking up an impressive 296, led by a brilliant century from Tommy Boorman (Cardiff Met student), who top scored with 124 runs.
He was well supported by skipper Nic Halstead-Cleak (Cardiff University student), who added 55 runs, with the pair sharing a 111-run partnership to put Cardiff in control early.
With the pressure on, the bowling unit delivered.
Cardiff UCCE bowled Loughborough out for 217, sealing the win by 79 runs with 8.4 overs to spare.
Standout performances came from Christopher Cole (Cardiff Met), who took 4-72, and Lewys Luntley, who added three wickets to close out the match.
The result caps off an incredible summer for Cardiff-based university cricket, following both Cardiff Metropolitan University and Cardiff University reaching the BUCS National Trophy final last month, where the Archers overcame Cardiff University by four wickets in a very close encounter.
This latest win further highlights the strength, depth, and ambition of the sport across South Wales.
In the last two years alone, 11 players from the Cardiff Met Cricket programme and nine from Cardiff University have secured professional contracts across the UK, underlining its role as a key talent pipeline for the domestic game.
Ben O’Connell, Director of Sport at Cardiff Met, said: “This is a fantastic example of what can be achieved through genuine collaboration.
The UCCE success shows how committed we all are to creating an elite, supportive environment for student athletes.
Winning a national title is a huge moment for cricket in south Wales.”
Stuart Vanstone, Head of Sport at Cardiff University, said: “The Cardiff UCCE, working alongside Glamorgan CCC has been at the forefront of Higher Education performance cricket since the inception of the programme.
Many of our former players have gone on to have successful county and international careers.
“The squad have had a great season, and their success is a testament to their commitment and hard work.”

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-met-mens-cricket-team-crowned-bucs-national-trophy-champions.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University’s men’s cricket team have been crowned BUCS National Trophy Champions after a thrilling victory over local rivals Cardiff University in the final held in Newport on Wednesday.
In a closely contested match, Cardiff Met sealed the win by 4 wickets, demonstrating resilience and team spirit to bring home their second national title in three years, a huge achievement for the university’s cricket programme and a proud moment for the team.
The BUCS National Trophy win reflects the strength and growth of Cardiff Met’s cricketing provision, which sits at the heart of one of the most comprehensive university cricket programmes in the UK.
Cardiff Met is home to the Cardiff University Centre of Cricketing Excellence (UCCE), one of only five such centres across the UK.
Delivered in partnership with Cardiff University, the University of South Wales (USW), and Glamorgan County Cricket Club, the Centre provides a high-performance environment for student athletes to develop their cricket alongside their academic studies.
The Cardiff Met BUCS cricket programme is one of the largest university cricket programmes in the UK for both men and women, and represents the university’s biggest single sporting provision.
With 11 current players or recent graduates securing professional contracts across the UK in the past two years, the programme provides a strong development pathway for talent at every level.
Gethin Smart, Cardiff Met’s Cricket Programme Manager and Sport Development & Workforce Manager, said: “This is an outstanding achievement by a group of committed, hard-working student athletes.
The BUCS National Trophy win is a testament to the quality of our cricket programme and to the strength of our partnerships across the region.
To beat strong opposition like Cardiff University in a final makes it even more special.
The players have shown real character throughout the competition, and I’m proud of how they’ve performed to such a high standard all season.”
The team will now look to build on this momentum as they continue to develop some of the UK’s most promising university cricketers, combining elite sport with academic excellence.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/news/2025/cardiff-met-coaches-and-students-selected-for-welsh-universities-hockey-squad.php:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is once again proudly represented in the Welsh Universities Hockey programme, with both staff and students playing key roles in the women’s squad ahead of this summer’s Nations Cup fixtures against England Universities.
The representative teams, a long-standing tradition in Welsh student sport, bring together top players from institutions across Wales, offering a unique and memorable experience of international-level competition.
Following a competitive trial process, including sessions held before and after Cardiff Met students' participation in the EuroHockey Club Challenge I in Antalya, Turkey, 13 Cardiff Met representatives have been selected, including 11 players and 2 coaching staff.
Student-athletes named in the squad are: Ella Bradley, Jamie Bulbring, Lucy Crompton, Casey Hillidge, Molly Hulcup, Amelia Lavington, Hannah McShane, Izzy Ricoux, Pip Venner, Tegan Waters, and Megan Watts, who will also serve as Vice Captain.
The coaching team includes Cardiff Met staff members Alf Dinnie (Head Coach and Lecturer in Performance Analysis for Cardiff Met School of Sport and Health Sciences, Dave Robinson and Sam Webster (Assistant Coaches).
“It’s a real honour to be invited back to lead the Welsh Universities Women’s Hockey squad,” said Head Coach Alf Dinnie.
“This programme is a special opportunity for student-athletes to represent their universities and country with pride.
We’ve got a talented and motivated group coming together, and I’m looking forward to building on the momentum from last year when we were the only Welsh team to defeat England, coming out on top in a dramatic shootout after a hard-fought 2–2 draw.”
Last year, Cardiff Met had 16 players and staff involved across the men’s and women’s hockey squads.
The university looks forward to supporting the current cohort as they proudly represent Wales on the university sports stage again this summer.
The 2024 Nations Cup will once again be contested over two legs.
The Away fixture will take place at Nottingham Hockey Centre on Saturday 21st June, with the Home leg hosted in Cardiff at Llanrumney Sports Fields on Thursday 26th June.
Additional friendly fixtures are being to support final preparations.
Cardiff Met continues to lead the way in developing elite student-athletes and staff contributing to representative sport at the highest level.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/cyfleusterau-chwaraeon:
Mae​ cyfleusterau chwaraeon Met Caerdydd ar agor i bawb; pa un a ydych chi'n athletwr elitaidd, yn chwaraewr achlysurol neu heb gym​ryd rhan erioed o'r blaen, mae croeso mawr i chi.
Gallwch archebu ar-lein ac ar Ap Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd .
Darganfyddwch fwy am ein cyfleusterau chwaraeon:
Mae'r Archers Arena ar Gampws Cyncoed ac fe'i cynlluniwyd i ddarparu ar gyfer:
Mae'r Archers Arena yn ffinio â thalcen y Ganolfan Tenis bresennol ac mae'n cynnwys ystafelloedd newid a mynedfa.
Ewch am dro trwy Ganolfan Perfformiad Archers Met Caerdydd newydd.
Mae'r Astro Turf wedi'i leoli ar Gampws Cyncoed ac mae ganddo farciau ar gyfer hoci a phêl-droed.
Mae'n gyflawn gyda dugouts, ardaloedd gwylwyr, bwrdd sgorio electronig a Chamerâ​u IP a ddefnyddir i ddarparu dadansoddiad fideo o ansawdd uchel.
Mae'n gartref i dimau hoci'r myfyrwyr a'r Academi Hoci Iau.
Mae'r Stiwdio Ddawns ar Gampws Cyncoed.
Mae yno lawr pren sbring ac mae drychau ar ran ohono sydd â 360 gradd o olau naturiol sy'n ei wneud yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer dysgu dawns.
Mae Met Heini Cyncoed yn gampfa bwrpasol a ddatblygwyd ar gyfer defnyddwyr abl ac anabl.
Mae'n cynnwys peiriannau cardiofasgwlaidd, gorsafoedd pwysau, ardal rhodian, ardal wattbike ac ardaloedd cynhesu/ymestyn y corff.
Mae'r Ganolfan hefyd yn cynnwys ardal pwysau rhydd gyda 7 rac sgwatio, ardal ymarfer swyddogaethol a phwysau llaw ​1kg - 50kg.​
Gellir archebu sesiynau campfa trwy ein ap.
Mae'r Ganolfan Ffitrwydd hon ar lawr cyntaf y Ganolfan Myfyrwyr yn Llandaf, ac mae yno'r offer hyfforddi cardiofasgwlaidd a chodi pwysau diweddaraf.
Mae'r cyfleuster yn agored i'r holl fyfyrwyr, staff a'r gymuned leol.
Gellir archebu sesiynau campfa trwy ein a​p.
Mae'r Ganolfan Athletau Dan Do Genedlaethol (NIAC) ar Gampws Cyncoed ym Met Caerdydd.Dyma'r trac athletau dan do pwrpasol cyntaf yn y DU.
Gall NIAC hefyd ddarparu ar gyfer chwaraeon eraill gan gynnwys pêl-rwyd, pêl-fasged a phêl foli.
Mae'r cyfleuster wedi'i gyfarparu'n llawn i safon ryngwladol ac mae ganddo seddi i 690 o wylwyr.
Mae'r NIAC yn gartref i'r Clwb Athletau Archers Caerdydd .
Mae gennym dri chae pêl-droed ym Mhrifysgol Fetropolitan Caerdydd.
Cae Pêl-droed 3G - Cyncoed
Ein cae pêl-droed 3G 2 seren FIFA yw cartref timau pêl-droed Academi'r​ Dynion, Academi'r Menywod a'r Academi Iau.
Cae Pêl-droed Glaswellt - Cyncoed
Mae gennym gae pêl-droed glaswellt wedi'i leoli ger ein cae 3G a ddefnyddir yn bennaf ar gyfer hyfforddiant a digwyddiadau BUCS.
Cae Pêl-droed Glaswellt - Llandaf
Mae ein cae pêl-droed yn Llandaf wedi'i leoli yng nghefn y campws ac mae ganddo farciau ar gyfer lacrós​ hefyd.
Mae gennym hefyd ddau gae glaswellt 5 bob ochr ar gampws Llandaf.​
Mae gennym dri chae rygbi ym Mhrifysgol Fetropolitan Caerdydd.
Cae Rygbi 3G - Cyncoed
Agorodd ein cae rygbi 3G yn 2017 ac fe'i defnyddir gan dimau chwaraeon y myfyrwyr ar gyfer hyfforddiant a gemau cystadleuol.
Mae'r cae hwn wedi'i leoli y tu mewn i'r trac athletau 400m awyr agored.
Cae Rygbi Glaswellt - Cyncoed
Mae'r cae rygbi glaswellt wedi'i leoli y tu ôl i'r Archers Arena a'r Ganolfan Tenis.
Fe'i defnyddir yn bennaf ar gyfer gemau BUCS a'r Gynghrair Genedlaethol ac mae'n cynnwys stand gwylwyr mawr a bwrdd sgorio electronig.
Cae Rygbi Glaswellt - Llandaf (yn y llun uchod)
Mae ein cae rygbi glaswellt yn Llandaf wedi'i leoli mewn lleoliad trawiadol yng nghefn y campws ac yn ymyl Eglwys Gadeiriol Llandaf.
Defnyddir y cae hwn yn bennaf ar gyfer digwyddiadau BUCS.​​
Agorodd ein Cyfleuster Athletau Awyr Agored ar ei newydd wedd yn ystod haf 2017 ac mae'n cynnwys trac 6 lôn 400m a mannau ar gyfer amrywiaeth o chwaraeon maes, gan gynnwys:
Gellir archebu sesiynau athletau trwy ein a​p.
Mae'r Neuadd Chwaraeon (sydd wedi'i lleoli ar Gampws Cyncoed) yn gyfleuster amlbwrpas sy'n darparu ar gyfer amrywiaeth o chwaraeon gan gynnwys badminton, pêl-fasged, pêl-rwyd, pêl foli, criced a hyfforddiant cyffredinol.
Wrth ymyl y Neuadd Chwaraeon, mae 2 gwrt sboncen.
Defnyddir y cyrtiau yn bennaf gan dîm sboncen Met Caerdydd at ddibenion hyfforddi, gemau cynghrair cartref a gemau BUCS.
Mae'r cyrtiau hefyd yn cael eu defnyddio gan fyfyrwyr a'r gymuned leol at ddibenion hamdden.
Gellir archebu cyrtiau sboncen trwy ein ap.
Mae stiwdio un yn ofod amlbwrpas lle mae ystod o'n dosbarthiadau ffitrwydd yn cael eu cynnal.
Y Stiwdio Seiclo yw lle mae ein holl ddosbarthiadau seiclo yn cael eu cynnal sy'n cynnwys 15 o'r beiciau seiclo gorau.
Gall ein haelodau ddefnyddio'r ddau le pan nad oes neb yn eu defnyddio.
Gellir archebu sesiynau stiwdio trwy ein a​​​​​​​​p.
Mae'r pwll yn bwll nofio dan do 4 lôn 25 metr, gyda phen bas 1m a phen dwfn 3m.
Mae wedi'i leoli ar Gampws Cyncoed, ac mae'n cael ei ddefnyddio gan fyfyrwyr ar gyrsiau chwaraeon, clybiau nofio Caerdydd, polo dŵr a chanŵio, myfyrwyr at ddefnydd hamdden, a'r cyhoedd.
Gellir archebu sesiynau nofio trwy ein ap.
Mae'r cyfleuster gymnasteg arbenigol hwn wedi'i gyfarparu'n llawn i ddiwallu anghenion addysgol hyfforddwyr a lefelau gallu penodol gymnasteg myfyrwyr yn yr Ysgol Chwaraeon, carfan Gymnasteg Met Caerdydd a'r Academi Gymnasteg Iau.
Lleolir Clwb Tenis Cyncoed yng Nghaerdydd yn y Ganolfan Tenis ar Gampws Cyncoed Met Caerdydd.
Rydym ar agor i'r rai sydd â diddordeb chwarae mewn amgylchedd hwyl a chyfeillgar, a chyfleoedd hefyd i'r rhai sydd yn dymuno chwarae tenis yn gystadleuol.
Gellir archebu cyrtiau tenis trwy ein ap.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/privacy-notice:
Cardiff Metropolitan Sports Facilities (Cardiff Met Sport) is part of Cardiff Metropolitan University .
The following Privacy Notice describes how your data is managed by Cardiff Met Sport in accordance with data protection legislation - the UK General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA18).
Cardiff Metropolitan University is the Data Controller and is committed to protecting the rights of individuals in line with the UK GDPR and the DPA18.
View our full here .
Cardiff Metropolitan University's Information and Data Compliance Officer can be contacted via the following routes (if you have any further queries regarding the processing of your data):
Email: SWeaver@cardiffmet.ac.uk or dataprotection@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
By means of this notice, Cardiff Met Sport wishes to notify you of the following:
(Please note: Special category data is personal data that needs more protection because it is sensitive)
Cardiff Met Sport processes personal information to provide you with its services; Junior Sports Programmes, membership (both internally and externally), and facility bookings.
Administering Appointments and Bookings
Cardiff Met Sport uses a booking system hosted by a third-party company, Gladstone.
Any personal data processed by Gladstone is done so in accordance with the requirements of the DPA18 as well as the University's policies and procedures.
For further information on how Gladstone may process your data, please visit https://offers.gladstonesoftware.co.uk/privacypolicy .
Cardiff Met Sport will not share your data with any third party unless there is a reason permitted by law.​
In order to process your personal and special category data, Cardiff Met Sport must ensure that it is compliant with one of the 'Lawful Bases' for processing under Article 6 and Article 9 of the UK GDPR.
This means that it must have a lawful reason for using/storing personal information for the purposes outlined in the "What Cardiff Met Sport uses your Personal Data for" section of this notice.
Article 6.1(f) - Legitimate Interests
Processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the Controller or by a third party except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the Data Subject which require protection of personal data, in particular where the data subject is a child.
Article 9(a) - Explicit Consent
The data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of those personal data for one or more specified purposes, except where Union or Member State law provide that the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 may not be lifted by the data subject.
Article 9(h) - Health or Social Care
Processing is necessary for the purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, for the assessment of the working capacity of the employee, medical diagnosis, the provision of health or social care or treatment or the management of health or social care systems and services on the basis of Union or Member State law or pursuant to contract with a health professional and subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in paragraph 3.
As the Controller, Cardiff Metropolitan University has implemented technical and organisational measures to ensure personal data processed remains secure, however absolute security cannot be guaranteed.
Should you have a concern about a method of data transmission, the University will take reasonable steps to provide an alternate method.
For more information about IT security at Cardiff Metropolitan University, and keeping your data safe, please click here .
The retention period(s) for your data may vary in line with legislative or financial requirements.
However, no personal data will be kept for any longer than is entirely necessary and will be securely destroyed in accordance with Cardiff Metropolitan University's Records Management Policy.
The lawful basis for processing can affect which Rights are available to individuals.
Using Legitimate Interests as the lawful basis for processing, your Individual Rights include:
Using Consent/Explicit Consent as the lawful basis for processing, your Individual Rights include:
Find more information about these Individual Rights .
Cardiff Metropolitan University has a Data Protection Policy .
Click the following link if you wish to make a complaint about the way your personal data has been processed .
Information Commissioner's Office - Wales 2nd Floor, Churchill House Churchill Way Cardiff CF10 2HH
Telephone: 0330 414 6421
Email: www.ico.org.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport/junior-sports-programmes/athletics:
Athletics Club and Academy for young athletes based at the National Indoor Athletics Centre (NIAC).​​
Cardiff Met Junior Athletics are based at Cardiff Met Sport Facilities.
We offer recreational and competitive programmes, competing across Wales and England for children aged 5 and upwards.
Sessions and courses are booked online or through the Cardiff Met Sport App .​​​​
​ For : Boys / Girls, aged 6+ years​​.
Venue : National Indoor Athletics Centre, Cyncoed Campus.
When : Every weekday between 4:30pm - 6:30pm.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/campws-agored:
Datblygu ymagwedd Gydweithredol at Chwaraeon, Gweithgaredd Corfforol a Darpariaeth Iechyd ar gyfer Rhanbarth Dinas Caerdydd ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd.
​Campws Agored Caerdydd Met yw ffordd gydweithredol o weithio i ddarparu cyfleoedd chwaraeon, gweithgaredd corfforol, chwarae awyr agored, ac iechyd a lles o fewn rhanbarth dinas Caerdydd a thu hwnt.
Mae Campws Agored yn gweld staff a myfyrwyr y brifysgol yn gweithio ar y cyd gyda’r gymuned i gynhyrchu cyfleoedd ar gyfer budd cilyddol gan ddarparu profiadau dysgu dilys trwy chwaraeon, i ddatblygu Caerdydd ymhellach fel Prifddinas chwaraeon, gweithgaredd corfforol ac iechyd.
Rydym yn cydweithio i greu profiadau cadarnhaol i fyfyrwyr a’r gymuned.
Yr hyn sydd yn gwneud Campws Agored yn unigryw ac yn arweinydd y sector yw aliniad y prosiect gyda chwricwlwm y Brifysgol.
Caniateir hwn i ni gynnig gweithgareddau am ddim a gyda thâl i bartneriaid ar ac oddi ar y campws, yn gysylltiedig â chanlyniadau graddau myfyrwyr ac ymchwil academaidd.
Mae partneriaid ar gampws yn darparu gwasanaethau a chyfleoedd i’r gymuned ar gampws ac oddi ar gampws.
Mae partneiriaid ar gampws yn dosbarthu cyfleoedd trwy leoliadau i fyfyrwyr wedi’u cyd-gynllunio rhwng darparwr y lleoliad gwaith ac Ysgol Chwaraeon a Gwyddorau Iechyd Caerdydd.
Trwy’r cydweithio hwn mae’r prifysgol yn gallu cynyddu iechyd a gweithgaredd corfforol y cyhoedd.
Mae partneriaid oddi ar gampws yn darparu gwasanaethau a chyfleoedd i’r gymuned oddi ar y campws.
Mae partneriaid oddi ar gampws yn cyd-ddylunio lleoliadau gwaith i fyfyrwyr gyda chymorth yr Ysgol Chwaraeon a Gwyddorau Iechyd Caerdydd.
Trwy drochiad y gweithle mae myfyrwyr yn datblygu EDGE Met Caerdydd (Sgiliau Moesegol, Digidol, Byd-eang ac Entrepreneuraidd), gwybodaeth, profiad, hyder ac ystwythder.
Caiff myfyrwyr eu cysylltu i brofiadau dysgu dilys trwy ddarpariaeth, gwerthisiad, dadansoddiad a beirniadaeth o brosiectau.
Gall y myfyriwr hefyd ddatblygu syniadau a mentrau newydd i fodloni amcanion y partneriaid.​
Trwy gyfrwng modiwlau, lleoliadau, digwyddiadau, prosiectau, ymchwil neu ddulliau sy'n seiliedig ar arloesi wedi'u cyd-gynllunio, gall Prifysgol Met Caerdydd gyfrannu at ddarparu chwaraeon a gweithgarwch corfforol untro neu flynyddol o safon fyd-eang ar y campws neu yn y ddinas.
Prifddinas-Ranbarth Caerdydd.
Mae myfyrwyr yn tynnu ar eu cyfalaf deallusol ar bob cam o gynllunio, cyflwyno a gwerthuso digwyddiadau gan ddod â gwerth i'r gymuned leol, tra'n elwa o'r profiadau gweithle dilys sy'n hanfodol wrth ddatblygu sgiliau Moesegol, Digidol, Byd-eang ac Entrepreneuraidd.
Os oes gennych ddiddordeb mewn bod yn rhan o'r cwricwlwm, trwy leoliadau neu ddigwyddiadau proffesiynol, cysylltwch â ni ar: opencampus@cardiffmet.ac.uk .​​
Un o fanteision allweddol Campws Agored yw’r cyfle i bobl o gymunedau lleol gymryd rhan mewn chwaraeon a gweithgarwch corfforol ar Gampws prifysgol ac yn rhai o gyfleusterau gorau’r DU.
Guillermo:
Mae Campws Agored yn rhoi cyfle i ni fel myfyrwyr i ymgymryd â hyfforddiant go iawn er mwyn cael profiad ac i ddysgu ohono.
Mae wedi rhoi'r offer i mi fod yn fwy hyblyg a pharod wrth gynllunio a dod i mewn i sesiwn.
Rwyf wedi cyfrannu drwy gymryd rhan yn y sesiynau cymaint â phosibl i siapio fy nysgu a rhoi’r profiad gorau posibl i fyfyrwyr y dyfodol.
Connor:
Mae campws agored wedi bod o fudd i mi gan fy mod yn gallu rhoi’r pethau rwy’n eu dysgu yn y wers ar waith sydd wedi fy ngalluogi i wella fy hyfforddi a rhoi profiad gwerthfawr i blant mewn gwahanol chwaraeon.
Rwy'n mwynhau bod yn rhan o gampws agored gan fy mod yn gweld ei fod yn rhoi lle i ni fel hyfforddwyr allu gwella ein hyfforddi mewn amgylchedd egnïol gyda gwahanol fathau o hyfforddwyr.
Mae hefyd yn rhoi cyfle i ni hyfforddi mewn gwahanol chwaraeon yn hytrach na’n chwaraeon naturiol ni.
Rwy’n teimlo fy mod wedi helpu’r gymuned gan ein bod yn rhoi cyfleoedd i’r plant ddefnyddio cyfleusterau o safon fyd-eang gyda gwahanol fathau o hyfforddwyr sydd â phrofiadau gwahanol sy’n helpu’r plant i syrthio mewn cariad â chwaraeon mewn gwahanol ffyrdd.
Jack:
Rwy’n credu bod campws agored yn brofiad gwych i blant a hyfforddwyr fod yn rhan ohono.
Mae campws agored wedi fy helpu i ddatblygu fy hyder a sgiliau mewn chwaraeon gan fy mod wedi dysgu sgiliau gwerthfawr iawn.
Rwyf wedi cael profiad gwych yn hyfforddi plant o amgylch Caerdydd ac wedi fy helpu i ddatblygu fy mhrofiad hyfforddi sydd wedi bod o fudd i mi ddefnyddio’r profiadau hyn yn fy sesiwn yn y dyfodol ac yn fy rolau hyfforddi yn y dyfodol.
Yma ym Met Caerdydd rydym yn cynnig ystod wych o gyfleoedd chwaraeon newydd cyffrous a chyfleusterau chwaraeon gwych sydd o fudd mawr i ysgolion ddod i gymryd rhan mewn chwaraeon.
Yn fy marn i, mae campws agored yn brofiad llawn hwyl i bawb sy’n cymryd rhan ac rwy’n argymell ysgolion yn fawr i gymryd rhan a dod â’u myfyrwyr am brofiad cyffrous a hwyliog ym Mhrifysgol Met Caerdydd.
Mae’r ffordd y mae Campws Agored Met Caerdydd yn gweithio yn rhan annatod o strategaeth esblygol ymgysylltu â’r gymuned a chyfrifoldeb cymdeithasol y Brifysgol.
Mae’n ymgorfforiad gweithredol o’n dull gweithredu sy’n cael ei yrru gan werthoedd, gan rymuso ein staff a’n myfyrwyr i ymgysylltu â’n cymunedau.
Trwy ddefnyddio ffordd Campws Agored o weithio, bydd ein cymunedau yn gywbod,  drwy greu partneriaethau dibynadwy, byddwn yn gweithio'n galed i sicrhau trawsnewid addysgol, ymchwil ag effaith, twf economaidd cynaliadwy, cydlyniant cymdeithasol ac iechyd a lles.
Yn hanfodol, mae Campws Agored hefyd yn ein galluogi i weithio mewn partneriaeth â’n myfyrwyr i sefydlu EDGE Met Caerdydd (Sgiliau Moesegol, Digidol, Byd-eang ac Entrepreneuraidd) i helpu i ddatblygu hyder, gwytnwch a phrofiadau a fydd yn eu paratoi ar gyfer bywyd ar ôl y brifysgol.
Mae dwy golofn allweddol sy’n sail i unrhyw brosiect Campws Agored:
Mae aliniad y ddau biler hyn yn allweddol i ddatblygu rhaglen a all sicrhau canlyniadau pwysig i Met Caerdydd a'n cymunedau.
Mae enghreifftiau o'r ymrwymiad hwn i'w gweld yn y ffordd o weithio a ddatblygwyd mewn ymgynghoriad â Thîm Rheoli Addysg a Thîm Ysgolion Iach Cyngor Dinas Caerdydd, gan sicrhau bod gweithgareddau wedi'u targedu yn cael eu cynnig i'r rhai sydd â'r angen mwyaf.
Mae ystod o fodiwlau wedi'u nodi lle gellir ymgorffori cyfleoedd i ysgolion a grwpiau cymunedol yn y sesiynau sydd wedi'u hamserlennu.
Bydd y sesiynau hyn i gyd yn digwydd o fewn y slotiau amser 10.00-12.00, 13.00-15.00 neu 15.00-17.00.​
Darperir sesiynau gan Fyfyrwyr Met Caerdydd o dan arweiniad ein staff academaidd a byddant yn rhedeg yn ystod amserlen academaidd Met Caerdydd, sy'n rhedeg o Hydref-Rhagfyr ac Ionawr-Mawrth.
Bydd y gweithgareddau a gynigir yn amrywio ar draws rhaglenni academaidd chwaraeon ac iechyd.
Mae gan fyfyrwyr israddedig ac ôl-raddedig yn Ysgol Chwaraeon a Gwyddorau Iechyd Caerdydd yr opsiwn i ymgymryd â lleoliad dysgu seiliedig ar waith yn ystod eu hastudiaethau.
Gall ein lleoliadau amrywio o ran cwmpas o 80 i 400 awr yn hyblyg dros gyfnod o 12 mis.​
Mae gan fyfyrwyr yr opsiwn i ymgymryd â lleoliadau gwaith lluosog dros flynyddoedd olynol a chyfuno eu lleoliad â chyfleoedd dysgu eraill megis prosiectau estynedig.
Bydd amrywiaeth eang o’n lleoliadau’n cael eu darparu trwy’r ffordd Campws Agored o weithio, gan ddarparu adnoddau pellach i helpu i gefnogi a datblygu cyfleoedd chwaraeon a gweithgaredd corfforol ar y campws neu o fewn eich ysgol neu sefydliad.
Mae digwyddiadau unigryw yn defnyddio gweithgaredd o fewn y cwricwlwm a lleoliadau proffesiynol fel rhai sylfaenol a rhai sydd wedi'u hymgorffori yn natblygiad, darpariaeth ac adolygiad o ddigwyddiadau untro neu flynyddol.
Trwy ddefnyddio adnoddau, seilwaith ac arbenigedd fel rhan o ymagwedd gydweithredol, dinesig tuag at chwaraeon, ymarfer corff, gweithgaredd corfforol, a digwyddiadau iechyd, rydym yn ychwanegu gwerth at gymunedau a phartneriaid lleol, tra'n creu cyfleoedd dysgu dilys i fyfyrwyr.
Nod y ffordd hon o weithio yw cyfrannu at gyflwyno digwyddiadau, yn ogystal â chyflawni canlyniadau dysgu modiwlau neu raglenni trwy gynllunio, cyflwyno ac adolygu digwyddiadau a gynhelir ar y campws neu unrhyw le ym Mhrifddinas-Ranbarth Caerdydd.
Mae'n ofynnol i bob myfyriwr israddedig ac ôl-raddedig ymgymryd â phrosiectau, ymchwil, a gweithgareddau arloesi o fewn y cwricwlwm.
Er enghraifft, dysgu seiliedig ar broblem fel dull addysgol, neu brosiectau ymchwil a menter yn eu blwyddyn olaf o astudio.
Gall myfyrwyr ymgymryd â phrosiectau sy'n seiliedig ar bolisïau cyfredol, materion cymunedol a mentrau sy'n galluogi cyflawniad academaidd ac sy'n cael effaith gadarnhaol ar y gymuned.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/cymdeithion-archers:
Hoffai Met Caerdydd ddiolch ei noddwyr:
Am gyfleoedd noddi, cwblhewch ein Ffurflen Ymholiadau Noddi .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/perfformiad-chwaraeon:
Gan weithio mewn partneriaeth â Chyrff Llywodraethol Cenedlaethol Chwaraeon a Chwaraeon Cymru, rydym yn darparu nifer o raglenni perfformiad sy’n cyd-fynd â llwybrau talent.
Mae Met Caerdydd wedi sefydlu ei hun fel un o’r prifysgolion mwyaf blaenllaw ar gyfer chwaraeon myfyrwyr yn y DU.
Rydym yn cynnig amgylchedd perfformio unigryw, sy’n canolbwyntio ar sicrhau eich bod chi’n cyflawni’ch dyheadau chwaraeon ac academaidd, gan osod y seiliau ar gyfer eich gyrfa yn y dyfodol.
Cyflawni eich potensial academaidd ochr yn ochr â hyfforddi, chwarae a pherfformio ar y lefel uchaf yn eich dewis chwaraeon.
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o ysgoloriaethau chwaraeon i ddarparu cymorth ariannol i fyfyrwyr athletwyr.​
Mae ein timau perfformio ac ysgolheigion unigol yn cystadlu yn eu cystadlaethau a chynghreiriau haen uchaf domestig priodol.
Ein sianel YouTube Chwaraeon bwrpasol.
Dilynwch ein timau mewn gemau BUCS wythnosol, yn ogystal â nodweddion arbennig ar chwaraewyr a hyfforddwyr.​
O gefnogaeth cryfder a chyflyru ymroddedig; clinigau tylino a ffisiotherapi a chymorth dadansoddi perfformiad.
Mae gennym Athletwr Gyrfa Ddeuol a Pherfformiad Polisi Consesiwn Chwaraeon ar waith ar gyfer pob cwrs ym Met Caerdydd.​
Mae ein rhaglenni perfformiad yn cael eu harwain gan aelodau profiadol o staff a hyfforddwyr ac yn cael eu cefnogi gan ein Tîm Gwasanaethau Perfformiad.
Rydym yn cynnig cyfleusterau chwaraeon o safon fyd-eang ar gampws Cyncoed i gefnogi datblygiad academaidd a chwaraeon ein myfyrwyr.​
Darganfyddwch ddigwyddiadau penodol i ddarganfod mwy am chwarae i'n Timau Perfformio.
Sylwch fod y rhain yn wahanol i Ddiwrnodau Agored y Brifysgol.​
Mae gennym dros 30 o glybiau chwaraeon sy'n darparu ystod o gyfleoedd i'n myfyrwyr.
Mae pob clwb chwaraeon yn cael ei lywodraethu gan Undeb Myfyrwyr Met Caerdydd.​
Ar ôl colli allan yn y gemau ail gyfle yn 2017 a 2018, sicrhaodd CPD Met Caerdydd eu lle yn rowndiau ail gyfle Cynghrair Europa 2019 yn dilyn buddugoliaeth yn erbyn Y Bala.
Roedd Met Caerdydd yn enfawr ar gyfer fy natblygiad corfforol.
Mae safon y gêm yn dda iawn.
Mae wedi fy helpu i gyrraedd lle rydw i nawr.
Y tîm pêl-droed mwyaf llwyddiannus yng Nghymru, llwyddodd Clwb Pêl-droed Met Caerdydd i sicrhau eu 6ed teitl mewn wyth mlynedd yn 2019 gan gymhwyso ar gyfer Cynghrair Pencampwyr UEFA i Ferched.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport/performance-sport-at-cardiff-met:
Sport is part of the very DNA at Cardiff Met, where throughout our history we have supported and developed a wide range of Olympic and International level athletes.
We take great pride in our tradition of success across Welsh and British sport and continue to develop our programmes in a constant pursuit of excellence.
In choosing to study at Cardiff Met, you will be following in these footsteps and benefit from a Performance Sport programme that has been designed to create the best possible environment for you to fulfil both your academic and sporting potential.​
Our mission is to continually develop and sustain a high performing environment that creates, good students, good athletes and good people.
We have an unwavering focus on pursuing excellence in everything we do and developing confident, successful and emotionally intelligent student athletes.
- Ben O'Connell, Director of Sport
With personal experience of competing on the international stage and undertaking world-leading research, our academic and Performance Sport staff create a truly unique environment of sporting excellence.
Our integrated model means you can be assured our programmes are informed by the latest in coaching and support services all designed to develop you as an athlete.
Coupled with our key partnerships with a variety of National Governing Bodies our programmes work alongside recognised talent pathways.
Our teams and individual athletes compete at the highest level of BUCS (British University & College Sport) competition across the UK.
We also remain one of only a few universities that support elite level competition in a range of professional and semi-professional leagues.
Including Men’s & Women’s football teams in the Welsh Premier Leagues, Men’s Rugby in the National Championship, Women’s Basketball in the WBBL and Men’s Hockey in the English National League.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport/performance-sport-scholarships:
We pride ourselves on the environment and support services we provide to all our student-athletes in our performance programmes to support them to develop.
Through our performance programmes, student-athletes have access to dedicated coaches, in-house support services and integrated academic staff providing an on-campus support package for each student worth thousands of pounds.
In addition to this we offer sport scholarships to our most talented student-athletes.
We pride ourselves on committing to student athletes through their studies and only offer scholarships to new students (including Cardiff Met Undergraduate progressing to Postgraduate study).
At this point, we offer conditional scholarships for the duration of study.
Scholarships are available up to the following maximum amounts.
Undergraduate – Home student (UK)
Undergraduate – International student
Postgraduate alumni – Home student (UK)
Application process and criteria
We run two approaches to scholarships depending on the sport.
Performance Programmes
We operate Performance Programmes in Athletics, Women’s Basketball, Wheelchair Basketball, Men’s Cricket, Men’s and Women’s Football, Men’s and Women’s Hockey, Netball, Men’s and Women’s Rugby, Tennis and Triathlon.
We do not operate an application process for our performance programmes.
Our coaching and programme staff will identify any potential scholarship students through the recruitment process.
Our awards are aligned to the needs of our teams and squads.
If you have any questions, please contact the relevant Performance Programme.
Non-Performance Programmes
Criteria for these sports is;
If you would like to be considered for a scholarship, please complete the application form.
https://forms.office.com/e/TqaYYDTsHs
We operate a rolling application review and awarding process.
Contact
Ollie Toogood, Head of Sport Systems, otoogood@cardiffmet.ac.uk
For queries relating specifically to Performance Programmes, please contact the staff from the sport.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport/performance-sport-teams:
​​​​In addition to competing at the highest level in the British University and Colleges (BUCS) leagues, our performance teams and individual scholars compete in their respective top tier domestic competitions and leagues.
Welsh Leagues Gwent Leagues
WBBL League
UCCE League Professional County Teams (Scholars)
Welsh Premier League
Welsh Women's Premier League
BUCS Premier South England National League
Cardiff and District League BUCS Premier South
BUCS Super League WRU Championship League
BUCS League

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport/performance-sport-services:
Our performance programmes are provided with inter-discipline support by our in-house Performance Services Team and supported by the Cardiff School of Sport and Health Sciences (CSSHS).
With many full-time staff, academic staff and student placements, our performance programmes are provided with a truly integrated and unique support service.​​
Our team deliver a programme of small group and team sessions with integrated testing throughout the season.
Each programme is designed specifically to benefit the team or individual and encompasses the entire development of the athlete relative to either competition or off-season demands.
Beyond strength and power, a composite of speed, agility, plyometrics, endurance and stability exercise are underpinned within a close, supportive, progressive environment.​
Watch as we take a closer look at the Strength and Conditioning Team at Cardiff Met.
​Our team delivers rehabilitation support and injury reduction strategies as well as providing training and match-day cover.
​​Our athlete lifestyle and personal development support focuses on providing impartial support and opportunities for wholistic development.
​​​Performance analysis is delivered in partnership with CCSHS.
Benefitting from our on-campus analysis lab and cameras integrated into our sports facilities, teams can have their matches and training analysed.
Some of our performance programmes also work closely with academic staff to benefit from the latest delivery, research and testing in areas such as Biomechanics and Physiology.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport/performance-programme-contacts:
Our performance programmes are led by experienced members of staff and coaches and supported by our Performance Services Team.​
Contact details for each sport can be found below:
Stef Collins - Women's Basketball Head Coach
Sarah Wagstaff - Head of Basketball
scollins@cardiffmet.ac.uk
swagstaff@cardiffmet.ac.uk ​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport/performance-sport-events:
These events are for students who wish to find out more about the opportunities to play Sport at an elite level at Cardiff Metropolitan University.
The events are focused on the specific sport, they are not the same as undergraduate or postgraduate Open Days or Applicant Days.
The events are aimed at both potential students (those who have yet to apply) and applicants.
​Dates vary.
Please refer to the individual sections below.
To register your interest in attending, please follow the links below:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport/performance-sport-staff-and-coaches:
At Cardiff Met, we have world-class staff and coaches who will ensure our student athletes excel in their chosen sport.​
UCCE Cricket
michael@glamorgancricket.co.uk
Basketball
Netball
kdavies3@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Wheelchair Basketball
Men's Rugby
igardner2@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Women's Football
kharris@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Hockey
luhawker@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Athletics
​rhawker@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Women's Rugby
lnewton@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Triathlon
lukewatson@welshtriathlon.org

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/performance-sport/recreational-and-internal-sport:
​​We provide an increasing range of opportunities for students to take part in more informal sport and activity.
There are opportunities to simply take part in different sports or for those still looking to have a bit of competition, we host internal competitions and tournaments between Cardiff Met students.
Several of our clubs also offer different recreational focused sessions for members not part of the competitive teams.​
To find out more, visit our Club Sport​ website.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/perfformiad-chwaraeon/perfformiad-chwaraeon-ac-astudio:
Ym Met Caerdydd rydym wedi ymrwymo i gefnogi myfyrwyr i berfformio ar y lefel uchaf o chwaraeon wrth gydbwyso eu hastudiaethau.
Rydym yn gweithredu amgylchedd Gyrfa Ddeuol Achrededig TASS, sy’n sail i’n hymrwymiad i fyfyrwyr gyrfa ddeuol.​
Mae ein polisi yn darparu dwy lefel o gymorth:
Ar gyfer y ddwy haen, gellir cynnig consesiynau academaidd i fyfyrwyr megis cyflwyno’n hwyr, peidio â chyflwyno neu fformatau asesu arall.
Darllennwch ein Canllaw Myfyrwyr i ddeall y broses cyn gwneud cais.
Mae’r ddogfen hon hefyd yn cynnwys dolen i’r polisi llawn.
Cliciwch yma i wneud ​cais.
Am ragor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch â Katie Payne, Rheolwr Ffordd o Fyw ac Addysg Athletwyr, at dcapolicy@cardiffmet.ac.uk​ .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/chwaraeon-myfyrwyr/chwaraeon-glan:
Mae gan bawb sy'n cymryd rhan mewn chwaraeon yr hawl i gystadlu mewn chwaraeon heb gyffuriau (Chwaraeon Glân).
Mae Met Caerdydd wedi ymrwymo i gefnogi safbwynt Gwrth-Gyffuriau'r DU (UKAD) a Gwrth-Gyffuriau'r Byd (WADA) sef bod twyllo, gan gynnwys dopio, mewn chwaraeon yn groes i ysbryd cystadlu.​
Mae Met Caerdydd wedi ymrwymo i’r canlynol:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/student-sport/cardiff-south-wales-ucce:
Welcome to the Cardiff South Wales UCCE website - Home of the Crimson Caps!​​
The Cardiff South Wales UCCE was formed by three universities: Cardiff Metropolitan University, Cardiff University, and the University of South Wales.
The UCCE, which each receive funding each year from the MCC (Marylebone Cricket Club), are aimed at male students with potential to play first class cricket and female students who have played to senior county level.
The aim of the UCCE is to give talented young cricketers the chance to receive top-level coaching and playing opportunities whilst furthering their education.​
​Based in and around the capital city of Wales, there are excellent transport links between the three partner institutions.
The Cardiff South Wales UCCE plays home matches at grounds used by Glamorgan County Cricket Club, including Sophia Gardens.
Cardiff Met is the focal point for the Centre's day to day operations with training also taking place at Cardiff University and the Glamorgan CCC indoor cricket school based at the SWALEC stadium.
Contact michael@glamorgancricket.co.uk for further information.
You can apply to become a member of the Cardiff South Wales UCCE squad by emailing your C.V.
to michael@glamorgancricket.co.uk .
Since the inception of the Cardiff South Wales UCCE, players that have gained professional contracts and played first class cricket include:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/chwaraeon-iau-ar-gymuned/rhaglenni-chwaraeon-iau:
Mae Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd yn cynnig amrywiaeth o academïau chwaraeon i blant 4 oed a hŷn.
Mae pob academi yn rhedeg dros gyfnod o wyth i ddeuddeg wythnos yn ystod y tri thymor ysgol.
Mae pob academi yn cael ei rhedeg o dan gyfarwyddyd ein hyfforddwyr chwaraeon cwbl gymwys (sydd wedi cael archwiliad gan y Gwasanaeth Datgelu a Gwahardd).
​Archebwch a darganfyddwch ragor o wybodaeth ynghylch ein rhaglenni chwaraeon iau ar yr Ap Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd .​
Mae Met Caerdydd yn gweithredu strwythur rhaglen o fewn y chwaraeon unigol.
Mae'r strwythur hwn yn caniatáu datblygiad parhaus o fewn pob camp, o'r lefel sylfaenol hyd at ben elitaidd y sbectrwm.
​​Mae hwn yn canllaw yn unig; gall dyddiadau amrywio ar gyfer gwahanol chwaraeon​:
Gall y maes parcio ar Gampws Cyncoed fod yn brysur iawn.
Rydym yn argymell gadael digon o amser i barcio eich car cyn cyrraedd ar gyfer gweithgaredd.
Os bydd y prif faes parcio yn llawn, cofiwch fod y maes parcio gorlif hefyd ar gael.
Mae cyfarwyddiadau i’r maes parcio gorlif i’w gweld yn y ddolen isod ynghyd â’r llwybr troed dynodedig o’r maes parcio i dderbynfa NIAC.
Sicrhewch eich bod yn talu ac arddangos os ydych wedi parcio am fwy nag ugain munud.
Gellir talu am barcio at y peiriannau neu drwy'r Ap 'PayByPhone' .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport/junior-sports-programmes/gymnastics:
Welcome to Cardiff Met Gymnastics!
We offer a gymnastics programme, open to both boys and girls, that focuses on the learning and development of artistic gymnastics skills in a fun filled environment.
Based in Cardiff, our classes and programmes are tailored to suit a range of abilities, catering for newcomers and those with previous experience.
Please see below for a more detailed overview of the classes that we have on offer.
These classes are organised based on individual ability.
The aim of these classes is to allow our recreational gymnasts to progress through our own levels system that has been developed to aid in the progression of skills and confidence.
This programme is split into 4 classes, increasing in difficulty as the levels progress; Level 1&2 class, Level 3&4 class, Level 5&6 class, Level 7+ class.
Gymnasts are moved up to classes at the coaches’ discretion.
If you are unsure of which level class to book, please contact us.​
This class is for those aged 8+, who are currently training at level 5 or above, and is interested in representing the Academy at competitions.
The training and class structure differs from our Recreational classes, as it aims to prepare routines and skills that allow the gymnasts to compete.
This class will be in addition to the gymnast’s Recreational classes.
Trials can be organised on an individual basis at the coaches’ discretion.
This is our most advanced gymnastics class.
Gymnasts train a minimum of 4 hours a week in a small group environment, allowing for optimal contact time with coaches.
These classes follow a more rigorous training programme across all apparatus to prepare for competitions.
Gymnasts in this group are as young as 6 and attend via coach invitation.
We offer a ‘pay as you go’ class for those who are interested in a more relaxed class structure.
This class allows gymnasts of any ability, be it beginner or experienced, to attend and use our facilities under the supervision of our qualified coaches.
Gymnasts can attend as regularly as they choose, and have the freedom to choose their focus for each class.
Teen Gym is available for those aged between 13 and 17, while Adult Gymnastics caters for those 18+.
As a club, we aspire to provide everyone with an opportunity to experience gymnastics in a safe and fun-filled environment.
We want to provide children with the physical and social building blocks that they can carry with them both in and out of the gym, as well as building confidence and improving health for our older members.
Child safeguarding and welfare is of upmost importance to us.
We work closely with Welsh and British Gymnastics as well as our Welfare Officer to ensure that our policies are up to date and are being carried out correctly, providing a gymnast-orientated environment.
All of our coaches are DBS registered through Cardiff Met University and have attended and achieved a Safeguarding and Welfare award from British and Welsh Gymnastics.
Should you have any welfare concerns or queries, please don’t hesitate to reach out to our Welfare Officer; Emma Williams: ewilliams@cardiffmet.ac.uk​ .
Level 2 General Gymnastics Coach
Level 1 Women’s Artistic Gymnastics Coach
Contact: jhtredinnick@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Level 2 Women's Artistic Gymnastics Coach
Contact: ewilliams@cardiffmet.ac.uk​
Club Judge
Level 1 General Gymnastics Coach

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport/junior-sports-programmes/hockey:
Our junior hockey programme is open to children of all abilities.
Based at Cardiff Met, Cyncoed Campus, we offer a chance for children to develop their hockey skills and tactics within a fun learning environment.
Our Hockey academy enters teams into the South Wales Youth Hockey programme from Under 8s to Under 16s and they play regular festivals and fixtures throughout the season.​​
Cardiff Met Cyncoed Campus – CF23 6XD​
Sunday mornings (10:00 - 13:00) across various locations.
Exciting news!
We have teamed up with One Sports Warehouse​ to receive discount costs on all hockey kits.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport/junior-sports-programmes/swimming:
Junior Learn to Swim sessions currently take place on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays .
Further details can also be found on the Cardiff Met Sport App.
Our Waves Classes are for children who are 4 years and above that have experience with water and pool environments.
Children are taught the necessary swimming and aquatic skills to swim and the vital skills of water competence where they learn how to be safe in and around water, such as swimming in clothes, treading water, and swimming without goggles.
Wave 8 is multi-aquatic and can either be a taster for participation in one of the aquatic sports or where a participant can keep aquatically active and take part in other aquatic activities such as Rookie Lifesaving, Artistic Swimming, Diving, Competitive Swimming and Water Polo.
If your child has attended swimming lessons previously and is in full-time education, we recommend that you book these lessons.
If your child has not attended Swimming Lessons previously but is in full-time education and has experience in a swimming pool environment, then we recommend that you book into Wave 1.
To see which wave your child should be booked into, please refer to our Wave Classes Outcomes Poster .
Cardiff Met Learn to Swim Lessons are £26.50 per month .
Booking a place will require an initial payment of £26.50 .
Upon completion of the initial payment, you will receive a link to set up a monthly Direct Debit or Reoccurring Payment from the following month for the duration of your lessons.
Monthly Direct Debits and Reoccurring Payments must be set up within 2 days of registration to the Learn to Swim Programme.
Failure to do this may result in losing space.
A missed payment will result in the space being lost and offered to a member on our waiting list.
Our lessons are for children only and any other adults, except for staff members, are not permitted in the pool and on the poolside.
Our qualified assistants are in the pool and have the knowledge and ability to aid and assist your child throughout their lessons.
Our Swimming Lessons are split based on ability, not age.
However, we offer Splash classes that are for children aged a minimum 3yrs+ and Wave classes for children in full-time education that are a minimum 4yrs+.
​If you remember which class your child was in prior to the start of the pandemic, then please register for the same level.
Our teachers continuously assess the swimmers weekly and if they feel that children would benefit from moving to another class (either lower or higher) then this will be done as soon as an opportunity arises to do so.​
Cardiff Met Swimming Pool has a shallow end which most of our beginner lessons will be taught in and a deep end too.
Or higher lessons will be taught within lanes to allow for extra swimming distances, however, this will be flexible as our teachers may need to teach other skills that require the use of the whole deep end or shallow end some weeks.
Pool depth is:
In every lesson, up to Wave 4, we will have one assistant in the water with a maximum of six children in the lesson.
Our Assistant is a Level 1 qualified Swim Teacher Assistant that has the ability and knowledge to aid the children in the water.
All our teachers will use equipment including swimming aids that will ensure your child is able to learn to swim safely and build their water confidence.
Cardiff Met pool temperature is 28.5˚C and is monitored regularly by our operational staff.
Cardiff Met Sports Swim School will use Swim Wales Aqua Passport System to monitor and assess our swimmers' progress.
After registration, you will be provided access to Aqua Passport online where you will be able to see your child's progress.
Parents of children in Splash Classes and Wave 1 Classes are allowed to spectate via the viewing area.
We are only able to host one parent per child in the viewing area.
Parents must access the site via the entrance behind the pool and not via the changing rooms.
Unfortunately, to protect the safety of swimmers, parents, teachers, and lifeguards we have limited the number of parents that are allowed to spectate which means we are unable to allow parents of swimmers in Waves 2 and above into the viewing area.
Children under 8 years old can access any changing room with a parent.
Children over 8 years are only permitted to the changing room of their sex.
There is pay and display or app payment parking on campus that is managed by Saba​ .
Peak (weekdays 08:00 – 16:00)
​​Up to 4.5 hours
​£1.00
​Up to 24 hours
​£2.00
Off-Peak (after 16:00 and at weekends)
​£0.50
Extended Periods
​​Weekly Ticket
​£8.00
​Fortnightly Ticket
​£16.00
​Monthly Ticket
​£24.00
We recommend that your child wears tight-fitting costumes/trunks.
Baggy costumes can restrict movement.
We also recommend that all swimmers bring goggles and a water bottle to every lesson.
All our lead teachers have obtained a Level 2 or equivalent in Teaching Aquatics and are DBS checked.
All our Assistant Swimming Teachers have obtained a Level 1 or equivalent in Assisting Teaching Aquatics and are DBS checked.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport/junior-sports-programmes/tennis:
Cardiff Met Tennis runs an extensive programme with youth coaching that covers all age groups.
Combining the LTA Youth coaching programme and research-informed practices, our sessions are designed to challenge all our players no matter their experience.
Next Term Starts?
Find out when the next term starts on the Cardiff Met Sport App.
For Who?
Boys / Girls, aged 6+ years.
Venue: Tennis Centre, Cyncoed Campus and Llandaff Fields.
For more information, visit our Tennis Club website .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/junior-and-community-sport/junior-sports-programmes/trampoline:
Our junior programme aims to give those enrolled the confidence to perform basic skills and dynamic technical skills and routines in a safe and progressive environment.
We also offer a range of competitions for novices and more advanced participants throughout the year.
Sessions can be booked online or through the Cardiff Met Sport App .​​​​
For information about the new term start date, please use the Cardiff Met Sport App.
Boys / Girls, aged 6+ years
If you are interested in joining our trampoline programme or would like further details, please contact us at juniorsport@cardiffmet.ac.uk​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/chwaraeon-iau-ar-gymuned/gwersylloedd-gwyliau-chwaraeon-iau:
Mae Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd yn cynnig amrywiaeth o wersylloedd chwaraeon i blant yn ystod gwyliau ysgol y Pasg a’r haf.
Mae’r gwersylloedd yn darparu gweithgareddau ar gyfer plant o bob oed a gallu.
Bydd yr holl Wersylloedd Gwyliau Iau ar gael i’w harchebu ar-lein neu ar Ap Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd .
Mae Gwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd yn gweithredu gofrestru lle mae’n ofynnol i rieni lofnodi eu ​plentyn/plant i mewn ac allan o’r gwersyll bob dydd.
Os oes unrhyw oedolyn ar wahân i’r oedolyn sy’n llofnodi’r plentyn i’r gwersyll yn casglu, rhaid hysbysu’r staff o hyn pan fydd y plentyn wedi mewngofnodi a rhaid i’r rhiant, y staff ac i’r oedolyn sy’n casglu’r plentyn roi cyfrinair.
Mae’r rheolwr yn cadw’r hawl i gadw plentyn ar y safle os na all uniaethu â’r person sy’n casglu, neu heb unrhyw fath o ganiatâd ysgrifenedig i ryddhau’r plentyn/plant o’r rhaglen.
Yn yr achos hwn, byddwn yn cysylltu â’r rhiant cyn rhyddhau unrhyw blentyn/plant.
Mae’n bwysig bod aelod o staff yn cael gwybod yn y bore os nad ydych yn casglu eich plentyn ar ddiwedd y dydd.
Cofiwch lofnodi’r gofrestr a threfnu i ddefnyddio cyfrinair wrth gasglu.
Gofynnir i rieni/gwarcheidwaid gasglu plant yr amheuir bod ganddynt salwch neu haint cyn gynted â phosibl er mwyn lleihau’r risg o ymlediad drwy’r gwersyll yn ddiogel.
Nid yw Gwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd yn gallu derbyn plentyn ar y rhaglen sydd â salwch (heintus) presennol neu sy’n gwella.
O ran iechyd a lles yr holl blant sy’n mynychu’r gwersyll, cynghorir rhieni i siarad â’r rheolwr datblygu chwaraeon a’r gweithlu cyn archebu lle i’w plentyn/plant.
Gofynnir i rieni plant sy’n mynychu’r gwersyll ag anaf yn barod i roi manylion i’r rheolwr cyn arwyddo i mewn.
Mae Gwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd angen caniatâd ysgrifenedig gan riant/gwarcheidwad cyn derbyn a rhoi unrhyw fath o feddyginiaeth i blentyn.
Gofynnir i rieni ddarparu manylion llawn ar ffurflen feddyginiaeth ar wahân a chydnabod, bob dydd, fel llofnod a dyddiad, bod aelod awdurdodedig o Wersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau wedi dilyn y cyfarwyddiadau gweinyddol a ddarparwyd.
Mae Gwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd a Met Caerdydd yn cynnal polisïau manwl sy’n llywodraethu gweinyddiad a gweithrediad y gwersyll.
Gellir gofyn am gopi llawn o’n polisïau.
Os oes gennych unrhyw bryderon, bydd y rheolwr yn hapus i siarad â chi ar y diwrnod.
Mae staff Gwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd yn ymdrechu i reoli, monitro a rheoli ymddygiad lle bo angen, i sicrhau bod y rhaglen yn rhedeg yn esmwyth ac i amddiffyn yr holl blant eraill sy’n mynychu’r gwersylloedd.
Mae holl staff Gwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd yn dilyn Codau Ymddygiad Hyfforddi’r Corff Llywodraethu Cenedlaethol yn y gamp benodol sy’n cael ei hyfforddi.
Lle mae plant yn torri ein polisi rheoli ymddygiad, cysylltir â rhieni i gasglu eu plant o’r gwersylloedd.
Mae Gwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd yn gwbl ymwybodol o’i gyfrifoldeb tuag at hyrwyddo cyfle cyfartal ac yn cydnabod bod gwahaniaethu yn annerbyniol o unrhyw fath.
Mae Gwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd yn derbyn ei gyfrifoldeb statudol yn llawn ac maent wedi ymrwymo i ymestyn yr egwyddorion a nodir yn y gyfraith i unrhyw unigolyn neu grwpiau sy’n cael eu trin yn annheg.
Darperir yswiriant atebolrwydd cyhoeddus a phersonol ar gyfer pob plentyn sydd wedi ymrestru ar y rhaglen Gwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau, fodd bynnag nid yw eiddo personol wedi’i gynnwys yn yr yswiriant hwn.
Os na all ein staff fynd i’r afael ag ymholiad neu gŵyn gyda chanlyniad boddhaol, gofynnir yn y lle cyntaf i rieni anfon e-bost at juniorsport@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Mae Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd angen caniatâd gan rieni / gwarcheidwaid i’r cyfranogwyr gael lluniau wedi’u tynnu i’w defnyddio wrth farchnata a ffotograffiaeth ein gwersylloedd chwaraeon iau.
Sicrhewch eich bod wedi cwblhau eich dewisiadau yn ein ffurflen gofrestru.
Lle na chaniateir lluniau i blant, bydd ein staff yn dyrannu band arddwrn dim caniatâd i’r cyfranogwr.
Ni ddarperir unrhyw fwyd na diod yng Ngwersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd.
Mae peiriannau diodydd a byrbrydau ar y safle ym Met Caerdydd (ond nid ydynt yn cael eu rheoli gan y Brifysgol).
Mae cyfleusterau ar gael i blant allu cadw eu pecyn cinio.
Mae’n ofynnol i bawb sy’n mynychu unrhyw Wersylloedd Chwaraeon Iau Met Caerdydd wisgo dillad ac esgidiau priodol.
Byddwch yn barod ar gyfer pob tywydd, yn enwedig os yw eich plentyn yn mynychu gwersyll a fydd yn defnyddio cyfleusterau awyr agored.
Mae eitemau fel siaced sy’n dal dŵr, sanau sbâr, eli haul, het haul yn bwysig i’w hystyried.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/chwaraeon-iau-ar-gymuned/mentrau-chwaraeon-ysgol:
Mae Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd wedi sefydlu cysylltiadau cryf ag ysgolion cynradd ac uwchradd yng Nghaerdydd ac yn croesawu llawer o'r ysgolion hyn ac eraill o du allan i'r ardal ar gyfer eu diwrnod chwaraeon ysgol.
Yn ogystal, rydym yn darparu rhaglen nofio i ysgolion lleol ac yn cynnig cyfle i bob ysgol uwchradd ychwanegu at eu cyrsiau Chwaraeon ac Addysg Gorfforol 'Safon Uwch' a 'TGAU' gyda'r bwriad o roi profiad ymarferol o brofion ffitrwydd maes a labordy.
Ydych chi wedi dewis dyddiad ond yn poeni am y tywydd?
Oes gennych chi'r holl offer sydd eu hangen arnoch i sicrhau fod y diwrnod yn rhedeg yn esmwyth?
Wel, efallai y gallwn ni helpu.
Mae'r Ganolfan Athletau Dan Do Genedlaethol yn lleoliad delfrydol gyda thrac 200m 4 lôn, lle syth i sbrintio, ardaloedd taflu a mannau cystadlu ar gyfer yr holl neidiau, ac i'w wneud yn wirioneddol broffesiynol mae gennym system PA ragorol.
Rydym yn cynnig naill ai sesiwn rhwng 9 am-12 canol dydd neu sesiwn rhwng 12.30pm-3.30pm.
Gallwn hefyd gynnig diwrnod llawn.
Er mwyn helpu ysgolion i gyflawni eu gofynion nofio rydym yn cynnig defnydd unigryw o'n pwll nofio dan do.
Ar gael:
Mae Cyfleusterau Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd wedi sicrhau nawdd i gefnogi ein rhaglenni iau, sy'n ehangu.
Mae hyn wedi ein galluogi i ehangu'r cyfle i blant brofi rhai o'n cyrsiau trwy ddarparu hyfforddwyr i gymryd gwers neu ddefnyddio slot amser egwyl i hyrwyddo rhai o'n cyrsiau chwaraeon gan gynnwys athletau, criced, dawns, gymnasteg, pêl-rwyd, rygbi, pêl-droed a sboncen.
Gall ysgolion drefnu ymweliad allgymorth yn ystod y tymor unrhyw bryd trwy gydol y flwyddyn.
Os hoffech chi gymryd rhan yn unrhyw un o'r uchod neu os hoffech chi gael rhagor o wybodaeth, e-bostiwch metcommunity@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/iechyd-a-ffitrwydd:
Mae Met Actif yn cynnig ystod o wahanol raglenni ar gyfer pob gallu.
Mae ein haelodaeth wych yn rhoi mynediad i chi i'r cyfleusterau a'r rhaglenni rhagorol sydd ar gael yma ym Met Caerdydd.​​
Wedi'i lleoli ar gampws Cyncoed a Llandaf, ein nod yw cael effaith ar holl fyfyrwyr a staff Met Caerdydd yn ogystal â'r gymuned yr ydym yn ei gwasanaethu.​
Mae amseroedd agor ein cyfleusterau iechyd a ffitrwydd ar gael ar Ap Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd .
Sylwch y gall amseroedd agor cyfleusterau amrywio oherwydd digwyddiadau arbennig.​​
Heb ymaelodi eto?
Ymunwch a ni âr-lein .
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o ddosbarthiadau iechyd a ffitrwydd.
Dysgwch fwy am ein rhaglen dosbarth iechyd a ffitrwydd.​
Mae ein gweithwyr ffitrwydd proffesiynol cymwys a phrofiadol yn darparu ystod o arbenigedd hyfforddi i'ch helpu gyflawni eich amcanion iechyd a ffitrwydd.
Gellir defnyddio ein cyfleusterau a’n gweithgareddau yn achlysurol.​ Mae’r prisiau ar gael trwy'r Ap Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd.​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/health-and-fitness/join-online:
You can purchase your Sports & Fitness Membership online.
If you experience any difficulties joining online, please email: membership@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Alternatively, you can use our facilities as a 'Pay as You Go' member.
This option is selected once you have entered the first section​ of your details after clicking on 'Join Online' or 'Join Us' on the Cardiff Met Sport App .​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/health-and-fitness/how-to-book:
We only accept bookings online or via the Cardiff Met Sport App ​.
The following need to be pre-booked:
Members can book up to 7 days in advance.​​​
All pay and play bookings are non-refundable and can only be transferred if 48 hours ​notice is given.​​​
All junior sports bookings are to be made online or by accessing the Cardiff Met Sport App ​.
Gym and Fitness bookings can be made online or through the Cardiff Met Sport App .
Any bookings which are unattended or cancelled with less than 24 hours notice will be subject to a £2 cancellation fee.​
Sports facilities can be hired on an hourly basis.​ You can make a booking enquiry using the form linked here: Booking Enquiries

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/met-sport/health-and-fitness/frequently-asked-questions:
Need help with a booking?

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/iechyd-a-ffitrwydd/gwasanaethau-iechyd-a-ffitrwydd:
Mae'​r Tîm Met Heini ym Met Caerdydd yn weithwyr ffitrwydd proffesiynol cymwys a phrofiadol iawn sy'n gallu darparu ystod o arbenigedd hyfforddi i gleientiaid i gyflawni unrhyw nod iechyd a ffitrwydd.
Gallwch archebu trwy'r Ap Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd neu archebu ar-lein .
Gweler isod am ein pecynnau rhaglen hyfforddi.
Rydym nawr yn cynnig sesiynau a rhaglenni hyfforddi personol.
Mae'r sesiynau hyn wedi'u teilwra i'ch anghenion, offer ac amgylchedd hyfforddi.
Er mwyn archebu ymgynghoriad am ddim i weld sut y gallwn eich helpu i gyflawni eich nodau iechyd a ffitrwydd, e-bostiwch metactive@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Byddwn yn casglu data trwy ymgynghoriadau a holiaduron cyn-hyfforddiant i wneud penderfyniad gwybodus ar gynhyrchu eich rhaglen hyfforddi unigol i sicrhau'r ymlyniad a'r cysondeb mwyaf posibl er mwyn cyrraedd eich nod.
Mae'r holl raglenni hyfforddi yn cael eu cynhyrchu o fewn 7 diwrnod gwaith o'r ymgynghoriad cychwynnol ac yn dod gyda sesiynau hyfforddi dan oruchwyliaeth gan un o'n gweithwyr ffitrwydd proffesiynol cymwys a phrofiadol.​​
Holwch heddiw am eich rhaglen hyfforddi trwy ffonio 029 2041 6743 (Canolfan Ffitrwydd Cyncoed) neu 029 2041 6779 (Canolfan Ffitrwydd Llandaf).
Fel arall, anfonwch e-bost at metactive@cardiffmet.ac.uk .​
Cyn defnyddio'r canolfannau ffitrwydd ar gampysau Cyncoed a Llandaf, bydd angen i chi drefnu sesiwn sefydlu.
Mae sesiynau sefydlu yn cymryd tua 20 munud, yn dibynnu ar brofiad, ac maent yn rhad ac am ddim.​

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/iechyd-a-ffitrwydd/dosbarthiadau-iechyd-a-ffitrwydd:
Mae dosbarthiadau yn agored i aelodau a rhai nad ydynt yn aelodau, ac maent yn cael eu harchebu ar-lein neu drwy'r Ap Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd ​​.
Mae amserlenni dosbarthiadau hefyd ar gael trwy'r ap ac ar-lein.​
Ffoniwch 029 2041 6743 (Canolfan Ffitrwydd Cyncoed) neu 029 2041 6779 (Canolfan Ffitrwydd Llandaf) i gael rhagor o wybodaeth.
Fel arall, e-bostiwch metactive@cardiffmet.ac.uk .​
Nod y dosbarth hwn yw datblygu craidd cryf, gwella sefydlogrwydd a chydsymud, a gwella ffitrwydd swyddogaethol cyffredinol, gan ei wneud yn fuddiol i unigolion o bob lefel ffitrwydd ac oedran.
Ymarfer seiclo dan do mewn dilyniant gyda cherddoriaeth ysgogol.
Gall aelodau losgi hyd at 620 o galorïau fesul ymarfer trwy sesiwn hyfforddi a fydd yn caniatáu iddynt ddod yn ffit yn gyflym.
Bydd y dosbarth hwn yn darparu symudiadau seiclo sylfaenol, sefyll i fyny, eistedd i lawr, newid cyflymder, a newid safle llaw.
Ffordd wych i adeiladu ymdeimlad o'ch cyflawniad personol eich hun sydd wedi'i osod ar eich cyflymder eich hun.
Mae'r sesiwn hon yn sesiwn rhedeg sy'n amrywio rhwng cyfnodau o ymarfer dwyster uchel a chyfnodau o adferiad dwyster is.
Nod y sesiynau hyn yw gwella systemau egni aerobig ac anaerobig a gallu ymarfer am gyfnod hirach ac ar lefelau dwysach.
Gall sesiynau ymarfer gynnwys Sesiynau Rhedeg Seibiannol, Bryniau, Trac / Melin Draed a mwy.
Ymunwch â'n Cylchedau Ffitrwydd (ar gyfer Menywod) a grymuso'ch hun trwy hyfforddiant cryfder mewn amgylchedd cefnogol sy'n canolbwyntio ar fenywod.
Mae'r dosbarth hwn wedi'i gynllunio i adeiladu cyhyrau, cynyddu hyder, a gwella ffitrwydd cyffredinol trwy amrywiaeth o ymarferion codi pwysau.
Mae ein hyfforddwyr yn rhoi arweiniad ar ffurf gywir, technegau, a dilyniannau personol wedi'u teilwra i'ch lefel ffitrwydd.
Dosbarth ffitrwydd poblogaidd yw hwn sydd wedi’i gynllunio i dargedu a chryfhau tair rhan benodol o’r corff: y coesau, y penwain, a chyhyrau’r abdomen.
Mae’n ymarfer cynhwysfawr sy’n canolbwyntio ar ymarferion hyfforddi cyflyru cryfder i helpu cerflunio a chryfhau’r meysydd allweddol hyn.
Mae’r dosbarth wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer pob lefel o ffitrwydd a gallu - o’r dechreuwyr i’r rhai mwy profiadol.
Mae'r dosbarth hwn yn cynnig ymarfer corff cynhwysfawr sy'n targedu'r corff cyfan, yn gwella cryfder eich craidd, yn gwella hyblygrwydd, ac yn hyrwyddo cysylltiad meddwl-corff.
Mae ymarferion Pilates yn aml yn canolbwyntio ar y cyhyrau craidd, gan gynnwys y bol, rhan isaf y cefn, y cluniau a chyhyrau’r ffolennau.
Mae’r dosbaeth hwn addas ar gyfer unigolion o bob lefel ffitrwydd a gellir eu haddasu i gwrdd ag anghenion a nodau unigol.
Mae'r dosbarthiadau hyn yn addas ar gyfer pob lefel gallu ac yn cyfuno ystumiau penodol, technegau anadlu ac ymwybyddiaeth ofalgar i annog y corff a'r meddwl i ymlacio.
Mae’r sesiynau hyn yn defnyddio ymarferion sy’n canolbwyntio ar gryfder, hyblygrwydd ac anadlu sy’n sicr o hybu lles corfforol a meddyliol.
Mae’r ymarfer corff llawn hwn yn canolbwyntio ar adeiladu cyhyrau, cynyddu dygnwch, a gwella ffitrwydd cyffredinol drwy ymarferion barbwysau.
Yn addas ar gyfer pob lefel o allu, mae’r dosbarth yn cynnwys cynhesu deinamig a symudiadau cyfansawdd fel cyrcydu, codi pwysau marw, pwyso a rhwyfo, a dadgynhesu trylwyr.
Sesiwn ymarfer corff mewn grwpiau sydd wedi'i chynllunio'n benodol ar gyfer unigolion sy'n newydd i hyfforddiant cryfder neu sydd â phrofiad cyfyngedig o godi pwysau.
Prif ffocws y dosbarth hwn yw cyflwyno ymarferion cryfder sylfaenol a darparu amgylchedd cefnogol ac ysgogol.
Mae’r ymarfer di-offer hwn, yn adeiladu cyhyrau, yn cynyddu dygnwch, ac yn gwella ffitrwydd cyffredinol gan ddefnyddio ymarferion fel gwrthwasgu, cyrcydu, rhagwthio a phlanciau.
Yn berffaith ar gyfer pob lefel o allu, mae ein hyfforddwyr yn eich tywys drwy’r ffordd gywir o ymarfer corff ac yn cynnig addasiadau personol.
Prif ffocws dosbarth ffitrwydd bŵtcamp yw gwella lefelau ffitrwydd cyffredinol, llosgi calorïau, adeiladu cryfder, cynyddu dygnwch, a gwella iechyd cardiofasgwlaidd.
Gall cyfranogwyr ddisgwyl chwysu, herio eu hunain, a chael profiad o ymarfer corff cyfan mewn amgylchedd grŵp cefnogol ac egnïol.
Gall bŵtcamps fod dan do ac yn yr awyr agored a defnyddio amrywiaeth o offer fel clychau tegell, peli ymarfer, bagiau pwnio a rhaffau brwydro.
Mae'r dosbarth hwn yn sesiwn ymarfer corff wedi'i gynllunio'n arbennig ar gyfer anghenion ffitrwydd y teulu cyfan.
Mae'n canolbwyntio ar greu amgylchedd hwyliog a deniadol lle gall aelodau'r teulu ymarfer gyda'i gilydd a chefnogi ei gilydd ar eu taith ffitrwydd.
Math o ymarfer corff sy’n canolbwyntio ar wella cryfder, dygnwch, hyblygrwydd a symudedd cyffredinol drwy ymarferion sy’n dynwared symudiadau bywyd go-iawn yw hwn.
Fe’i cynlluniwyd i wella eich gallu i gyflawni tasgau bob dydd yn effeithlon a gyda llai o risg o anaf.
Mae awyrgylch y dosbarth yn gefnogol a chynhwysol, gan feithrin ymdeimlad o gymuned ymhlith cyfranogwyr.
Ymarfer dwyster uchel sy’n cyfuno hyfforddiant cryfder swyddogaethol gydag ymarferion dygnwch.
Mae’r dosbarth hwn yn cynnwys amrywiaeth o orsafoedd megis rhwyfo, rhedeg, gwthio sled, a symudiadau pwysau corff.
Gwthiwch eich terfynau, adeiladwch gryfder, a chynyddwch eich dygnwch mewn amgylchedd cefnogol ac ysgogol.
Gwella’ch hyblygrwydd a’ch symudiad gyda’n dosbarth Symudedd!
Mae’r sesiwn hon yn canolbwyntio ar ymarferion ac ymestyniadau sydd wedi’u cynllunio i gynyddu eich ystod symudedd, lleihau stiffrwydd cyhyrau ac atal anafiadau.
Yn addas ar gyfer pob lefel ffitrwydd.
Gallwch gael blas ar sesiynau ffitrwydd personol gyda’n Sesiwn Blasu Hyfforddiant Personol unigryw!
Mae’r profiad rhagarweiniol hwn yn cynnig cipolwg ar fyd hyfforddiant un-i-un wedi’i deilwra’n benodol i’ch nodau a’ch anghenion.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeon-met/ap-chwaraeon:
Mae'r Ap Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd yn ap ffô​n am ddim​ i fyfyrwyr, staff a'r gymuned.
Fel arall, chwiliwch am 'Chwaraeon Met Caerdydd' ar y Siop Apiau neu Google Play.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni:
Ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd, rydym wedi ymrwymo i wneud y byd yn lle gwell trwy addysgu a dysgu, ymchwil ac arloesi, a gweithio gyda chymunedau yn lleol ac yn rhyngwladol.
Prifysgol fodern blaenllaw gydag arlwy nodedig ar draws ystod eang o ddisgyblaethau creadigol, chwaraeon, iechyd, addysg, technoleg, gwyddorau cymdeithasol a bywyd, a busnes, rydym yn tynnu ein hysbrydoliaeth o dros 150 mlynedd o ymrwymiad i addysg fel grym er daioni ym Mhrifddinas Rhanbarth Caerdydd a thu hwnt.
Symudwn ymlaen fel cymuned dysgu ac ymchwil dirgrynol gyda ffocws ar lwyddiant myfyrwyr.
Ein huchelgeisiau strategol a chenadaethau trawsbynciol.
Dyswch am strwythur, llywodraethiant a chydymffurfiaeth y Brifysgol.
Dewch o hyd i bopeth sydd angen i chi ei wybod am seremonïau, dyddiau, a manylion digwyddiadau graddio.
Dysgwch am ein hymagwedd at Sicrhau Ansawdd a gwella'r profiad dysgu.
Polisïau allweddol a'r rheolaeth sy'n llywodraethu'r Brifysgol.
Dewch o hyd i ddyddiau calendr academaidd allweddol ar gyfer myfyrwyr a staff.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/sustainability:
Cardiff Metropolitan University recognises the importance of the role it has to play in environmental management of its estate and in promoting principles of sustainability across all activities, including teaching and research.
The University will manage and control its environmental risks in a sustainable manner by complying with relevant legislation and adopting where appropriate best practice.
Cardiff Metropolitan recognises a wide definition of sustainability, based on engaging in development that meet the needs of the present, without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
All sustainability activities are part of the Sustainability​​ Strategy and led by the Chief Officer (Resources).
Environmental Impacts are reviewed each year as part of our Environmental Management System, reported in the Annual Report​ and at Sustainability Group​ meetings.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/strategaeth:
Mae Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yn sefydliad uchelgeisiol a blaengar, prifysgol fodern flaenllaw gyda phroffil nodedig ar gyfer addysgu, dysgu, ymchwil ac arloesi.
Mae ein myfyrwyr a’n staff yn gweithio ochr yn ochr â’n partneriaid i arwain y ffordd wrth wneud gwahaniaeth cadarnhaol i Gymru a’r byd ehangach, gan gyfrannu at economi decach a gwyrddach sydd o fudd i bawb.
Yn dilyn penodiad Llywydd ac Is-Ganghellor newydd, yr Athro Rachael Langford, ym mis Ionawr 2024, mae’r Brifysgol wedi adnewyddu ei Strategaeth 2030.
Mae’r weledigaeth a’r cenadaethau a nodir yn y Strategaeth newydd hon yn rhoi ffocws cryfach fyth ar wella profiad myfyrwyr, cynyddu cynhwysiant, cynyddu effaith ymchwil, meithrin arloesedd, a dyfnhau ymgysylltiad cymunedol.
Byddwn yn darparu profiad rhagorol i fyfyrwyr, gan ehangu mynediad a chynhwysiant drwy ymestyn cyfleoedd dysgu y tu hwnt i’n cynigion israddedig ac ôl-raddedig traddodiadol drwy gyrsiau byr, prentisiaethau gradd a micro-gymwysterau, gan gynnwys drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg a thrwy addysg drawswladol.
Byddwn yn dylunio ein profiadau dysgu ac addysgu, gan gynnwys mannau dysgu, i ddatblygu ymdeimlad o berthyn sy’n cefnogi dysgwyr i gyrraedd eu potensial academaidd a gwneud y gorau o’u canlyniadau graddedigion.
Byddwn yn gwella ein proffil ymchwil ac arloesi drwy amgylchedd ymchwil cryfach a gwell ansawdd, dwyster, cyrhaeddiad ac effaith yn ein hallbwn ymchwil ac arloesi.
Byddwn yn gweithio yng Nghymru a’r DU i gefnogi mentrau sydd o fudd i les cymdeithasol, economaidd, corfforol a meddyliol, gan gyfrannu at economi decach a gwyrddach sydd o fudd i bawb.
Byddwn yn llunio ein partneriaethau addysgol trawswladol o ansawdd uchel, strategol ac oddi ar y campws i ymestyn ein heffaith, cyrhaeddiad ac enw da, ac i gefnogi datblygiad sgiliau a gallu dramor a chyfrannu at les unigolion, economïau a chymdeithasau yn fyd-eang.
Byddwn yn rhagweithiol yn cefnogi ein myfyrwyr rhyngwladol ar y campws i gynyddu llwyddiant, gwella cadw, ymgysylltu a dilyniant, a hyrwyddo manteision ymgysylltu fel aelodau graddedig o rwydweithiau cyn-fyfyrwyr byd-eang gweithredol.
Byddwn yn ymestyn ein gweithgarwch cenhadaeth ddinesig i gyfoethogi lles economaidd, cymdeithasol, amgylcheddol a diwylliannol.
Trwy bartneriaethau a chydweithio, byddwn yn cefnogi cymunedau, busnesau a diwydiannau i ffynnu drwy ehangu mynediad i’n cyfleusterau, ein doniau a’n hadnoddau.
Mae Strategaeth 2030 hefyd yn amlinellu pedair cenhadaeth drawsbynciol, yn galluogi dull cydgysylltiedig o ymdrin â heriau aml-ddimensiwn a fydd yn sicrhau bod safbwyntiau a galluoedd amrywiol yn cael eu dwyn ynghyd i gyflawni ein huchelgeisiau strategol a rennir.
Maent yn gwneud y canlynol:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/cydraddoldeb-ac-amrywiaeth:
​Nod Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yw bod yn lleoliad lle mae holl aelodau ein cymuned yn teimlo bod croeso iddynt a’u bod yn cael eu cynnwys.
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i hyrwyddo cyfleoedd cyfartal i bawb, gan roi cyfle i bob unigolyn gyflawni ei botensial, heb ragfarn a gwahaniaethu.
Byddwn yn defnyddio ein cefndiroedd amrywiol i wella gwybodaeth broffesiynol a dod â her a safbwyntiau newydd i'r hyn a wnawn ar y campws.
Bydd hyn yn ein helpu i feithrin gallu a chefnogi ein myfyrwyr a'n staff.
Mae sefydliadau sy'n cofleidio cydraddoldeb, amrywiaeth a chynhwysiant yn sicrhau canlyniadau gwell, staff mwy brwdfrydig, mwy o gydnabyddiaeth gan eu sefydliadau partner a mwy o arloesi.​
Trwy ein hymrwymiad i gydraddoldeb, amrywiaeth a chynhwysiant byddwn yn parhau i hyrwyddo a hwyluso'r defnydd o'r iaith Gymraeg drwy gefnogi gweithwyr, myfyrwyr a chymunedau Cymraeg eu hiaith.​
I gael rhagor o wybodaeth am gydraddoldeb ac amrywiaeth ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd, cysylltwch â equality@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Mae Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yn sefydliad sy'n cael ei gyrru gan werthoedd lle mae amgylchedd gweithio a dysgu diogel, cefnogol, a chynhwysol yn hanfodol i sicrhau bod myfyrwyr a staff yn cyflawni eu llawn botensial.
Nid yw'r Brifysgol yn caniatáu'r defnydd o Gytundebau Peidio â Datgelu (NDAs) mewn perthynas ag achosion staff neu fyfyrwyr yn ymwneud â thrais rhywiol neu ar sail rhywedd, bygythiadau o drais, aflonyddu, cam-drin, neu achosion o gam-drin ac aflonyddu y'u diffinnir yn ehangach.
Mae'r safbwynt polisi cadarn hwn yn adlewyrchu arfer da ledled y sector addysg uwch ac fe'i hadlewyrchir yn argymhellion Canllawiau Prifysgolion y DU (UUK) ar Gamymddwyn Rhywiol Staff/Myfyrwyr, sef canlyniad Grŵp Cynghori UUK a gadeirir gan yr Athro Cara Aitchison, Is-Ganghellor Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd.
Mae'r Grŵp hwn wedi bod yn datblygu Canllawiau ar gyfer mynd i'r afael â chamymddwyn rhywiol rhwng staff a myfyrwyr yn y sector addysg uwch a chaiff y Canllawiau eu lansio yn gynnar yn 2022.
Adlewyrchir y safbwynt hwn yng Nghod Ymddygiad Proffesiynol y Brifysgol y'i mabwysiadwyd yn 2021 ac mae'n cyd-fynd â Chanllawiau UUK ar Gamymddwyn Rhywiol ac â chanllawiau gan ACAS a'r Comisiwn Cydraddoldeb a Hawliau Dynol.
Mae hefyd yn cefnogi'r adduned i ddod â'r defnydd o gytundebau peidio â datgelu i ben, fe'i lansiwyd gan y Gweinidog dros Brifysgolion yn Lloegr yn Ionawr 2022, fe'i cefnogir gan y NUS, grwpiau ymgyrchu ac ASau ac mae eisoes wedi'i fabwysiadu gan rai prifysgolion yn Lloegr.
Mae'r Brifysgol wedi ymrwymo i raglen o waith ehangach UUK, Newid y Diwylliant, ac i egwyddorion gweithredol 'Can't Buy My Silence'.
Mewn perthynas â chamymddwyn rhywiol yn benodol, mae Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd wedi ymrwymo i:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity/about-us:
Cardiff Metropolitan University through our Equality and Diversity provision aims to create a positive working and learning environment for our staff and students.
We want to foster an environment that is diverse and inclusive and where individuals are free from discrimination.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion lead at Cardiff Metropolitan University is the University Secretary and Clerk to the Board of Governors.
The Equality team is made up of our Equality & Diversity Officer and Equality & Diversity Project Coordinator who engage with both staff, students and the wider community.
The aim of the committee is to drive equality, diversity and inclusion across the University.
The committee brings together key stakeholders from across the University to monitor progress in meeting the Equality Act 2010 general duty and the accompanying specific duties, ensuring the delivery of strategic targets and objectives.
The committee oversees the delivery of the University's Strategic Equality Plan 2020-24.
The committee reports directly into the University Management Board.
Alongside the University's Organisational Development team our Equality team is responsible for the development and implementation of equality and diversity training.
Our Equality team works closely with representatives from across the University to identify, develop and deliver relevant and accessible training for all staff and students.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity/annual-reports-strategies-and-policies:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to ensuring that it has a number of Equality and Diversity plans and reports in order to support its Equality & Diversity agenda to create an inclusive and positive working environment for our staff and students.
If you would like a copy of any of the documents listed below in an alternate format or if you have any queries, please contact the Equality and Diversity Officer at equality@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
View a copy of our Equality, Diversity, & Inclusion Policy .
In line with the statutory duty, Equality and Diversity Annual Reports will be produced on annual basis and published by the 31st March each year.
Promoting equality is more than a statement of how the University will meet statutory requirements: it is an essential and integral part of the University operations, a reflection of what it values, and helps to create improvements for everyone.
Equality supports quality: ensuring equality of opportunity and embracing diversity is necessary if we are to achieve our strategic goals and develop the full potential of all our staff and students.
Our Strategic Equality Plan is composed of four overarching objectives, each of which has a number of associated key aims.
The plan covers the protected characteristics of age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex and sexual orientation.
We aim to work in partnership with our Cardiff Met Student Union in order to drive the plan forward and achieve our aspirations.
Cardiff Metropolitan University collects and monitors anonymised Equality data on all nine protected characteristics as specified in The Equality Act 2010.
The nine protected characteristics are Age, Disability, Race, Sex, Gender Reassignment, Marriage and Civil Partnership, Pregnancy and Maternity, Religion and Belief and Sexual Orientation.
It is also a legal requirement, as part of the Public Sector Equality Duty in Wales , for the University to monitor against all protected characteristics.
More information about the Equality Act 2010 and the Welsh Public Sector Equality Duty in Wales can be found on the Advance HE website .
The University uses equality and diversity data to:
All information collected is stored securely, following strict data protection principles.
Information is only ever published, in reports for example, in an anonymous format.
In order to provide further guidance in relation to equality monitoring, Stonewall Cymru have produced a guide highlighting the ten reasons why monitoring forms should be completed: What's it got to do with you?
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to creating a fair and equitable working and learning environment and like all other public bodies, the University has a legal duty to assess all its proposed policies, practices and procedures for their impact on protected groups as defined in the Equality Act 2010.
An Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) helps to defend against discrimination occurring.
Discrimination is often unintentional, and the EIA process allows us to consider the different ways in which different groups of people are affected by our policies and practices and take any actions to eliminate negative consequences.
When reviewing or implementing new policy and practices, Cardiff Metropolitan University ensures EIAs are completed.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity/equality-charters-and-initiatives:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is an Advance HE Strategic Member and is committed to working with Advance HE to help shape the future of Higher Education, developing a culture which champions equality, diversity and inclusion.
Through our membership, we hope to learn, influence and share best practice with HE Institutions from across Wales and the rest the UK.
As a University, we have committed to understanding and addressing the barriers that exist for our staff and students pertaining to gender inequalities.
We are working toward tackling the challenges and disparities that hinder equal representation, progression and outcomes for all.
Advance HE’s Athena SWAN Charter Mark has been driver for change at the University since we first achieved our Institutional Bronze award in 2016 and again in 2019.
Since then, we have continued to take a whole-institutional approach resulting in all our Academic Schools committing to making individual applications for the Bronze and Silver awards.
We will continue to embed and uphold the Athena SWAN ten key principles into our University and maintain a practical and informed strategy to advance Gender Equality for all.
Current award holders are:
Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter provides a framework through which institutions work to identify and self-reflect on institutional and cultural barriers standing in the way of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff and students.
As Cardiff Metropolitan University, we have made an unwavering commitment to embed racial justice and equality in all parts of our institution.
To realise our vision of Race Equity and directly address inequality at our University, we have become a member of the Race Equality Charter.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to providing help and support to all staff and students experiencing mental health problems.
The University wants to ensure that it provides a welcoming and supportive working environment and as such to further demonstrate our commitment we have joined together to work with Time to Change Wales .
By supporting this national campaign, together with staff and students we aim to help tackle mental health stigma and discrimination in Wales, by improving our provision of support and prioritising learning around mental health and well-being.
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to improving employment opportunities and career development for disabled people, and in recognition of this Cardiff Metropolitan University has been certified as a Level 2 Disability Confident Employer.
The Disability Confident Scheme has replaced the Two Ticks or disability symbol scheme.
Under the Two Ticks scheme employers made five commitments, one of which was to interview all disabled applicants who met the minimum criteria for a job vacancy and consider them on their abilities.
For more information on the Disability Confident employer scheme please visit https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/disability-confident-campaign
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to improving the accessibility of our campuses and is aware that the accessibility needs of our staff, students and visitors are different.
We understand that what's accessible for one person is not always accessible to someone else.
To provide support we have worked with AccessAble to provide a Detailed Access Guide to let people know what access will be like when the visit our University campuses.
The Detailed Access Guide also looks at the route you will use getting and what is available inside.
Our Cardiff Metropolitan University Detailed Access Guide is available here .
The award-winning Technician Commitment group endeavours to ensure visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability for all our technical staff working in education and research.
The group consists of members from each school within Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Click here for more infomarion about the Technician Commitment group.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity/staff-networks-and-forums:
As part of Cardiff Metropolitan University's commitment to engage with our staff, students and the wider community to help create a more inclusive and diverse organisation, we welcome and support the development of staff and student networks.
We recocgnise the importance of staff networks in bringing together people from all Academic Schools and Professional Services that identify with an equality group, or an equality related issue.
Staff networks are run by staff for staff and provide the opportunity for:
In recent years we have established six staff-led Networks here at Cardiff Met, reflecting our commitment to supporting equality, diversity and inclusion.
The six Networks are:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity/pay-gap-information:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to promoting and implementing best practice in Equality and Diversity in order to provide an inclusive working and learning environment for all staff and students.
Although this is not yet a legal requirement, the University has decided to publish our gender, ethnicity and disability pay gaps to illustrate our commitment to pay transparency and equality.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity/contact-us:
​For more information about equality and diversity at Cardiff Metropolitan University please contact our Equality and Diversity Officer at equality@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/yr-uned-gymraeg:
Mae’r Uned Gymraeg yn arwain datblygiad gwasanaethau a darpariaeth Gymraeg Met Caerdydd.
Mae hyn yn cynnwys:
Am fwy o wybodaeth, anfonwch neges at unedgymraeg@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/welsh-language-unit/welsh-language-standards:
The Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011 created the Welsh Language Standards.
These give people the right to receive services from Cardiff Met through the medium of Welsh and make sure that Welsh isn’t treated less favourably than English.
The standards - which apply to our activities in Wales - also:
Here’s a list of the standards that we have to follow .
The Welsh Language Unit has created guidance to help every part of Cardiff Met meet the standards.
More details on how we implement the standards and make sure that Cardiff Met provides the best possible Welsh language services are available in our Welsh Language Policy .
The Welsh Language Unit works with staff across Cardiff Met to monitor how well the University is meeting the standards and to improve our Welsh language services.
Every year, we publish a report which includes information and data relating to the Welsh language at Cardiff Met.
The report also outlines the work we’ve done during the year to improve and promote our Welsh language services and the use of Welsh.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/welsh-language-unit/compliance-with-welsh-language-standards:
We have legislation in Wales to protect, promote and facilitate Welsh.
The Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011 created the Welsh Language Standards .
People should be able to use Welsh as part of their everyday lives.
They should have the same experiences as English speakers.
The Welsh should be just as visible and accessible as the English.
Below is a table created by the Welsh Language Unit to help academic schools and professional services meet the requirements of the standards.
Please ensure that the following actions are being completed by your academic school/professional service.
Objective
Action(s)
Bilingual electronic signatures and out of office messages
Please ensure that all staff have a bilingual version of their electronic signatures and out of office messages.
Full guidance and step-by-step instructions are available on the Help with Welsh page on InSite.
All staff to answer the telephone bilingually
Academic schools and professional services can contact the Welsh Language Unit to arrange training.
Raising awareness of the Welsh Language Standards
Staff in all academic schools and professional services need to be aware of the requirements of the Welsh Language Standards by completing the mandatory e-module on The Welsh Language and Culture at Cardiff Met.
Teams can also contact the Welsh Language Unit to arrange a face-to-face Welsh Language Awareness session.
Creating bilingual forms
All forms available to students, members of the public and external organisations should be bilingual.
This includes forms in both electronic format (e.g.
those on the website and intranet) and hard copies.
Both languages should be equally accessible and visible.
If there are separate Welsh and English versions, the English version must clearly state that a Welsh version is available.
The language toggle can be used to make this clear on electronic forms, but otherwise, please use the bilingual text below:
Mae’r ffurflen hon hefyd ar gael yn Gymraeg / This form is also available in Welsh
Staff forms relating to some areas need to be produced bilingually.
Please see table at the end of this document.
Sending correspondence
Contacting a student or someone external
The first time you correspond with them, (or in the case of a registered student, to two individuals who are members of the same household - for example, the parents) please do that bilingually and ask them whether they’d like to correspond with you in Welsh, English or bilingually.
We should keep a record of their choice and then carry on contacting them in their language(s) of choice.
Since staff change over time, please re-check the language preference from time to time.
You can correspond in English only with Welsh-speaking students when it’s about courses or parts of courses which are delivered in English.
In correspondence, publications and notices that invite responses, we must include the following bilingual statement:
Mae Met Caerdydd yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn Gymraeg a Saesneg a byddwn yn sicrhau ein bod yn cyfathrebu â chi yn eich dewis iaith boed yn Gymraeg, yn Saesneg neu'n ddwyieithog dim ond i chi roi gwybod i ni pa un sydd well gennych.
Ni fydd gohebu yn Gymraeg yn creu unrhyw oedi.
Cardiff Met welcomes correspondence in English and Welsh and we will ensure that we communicate with you in the language of your choice, whether that's English, Welsh or bilingual as long as you let us know which you prefer.
If you receive Welsh correspondence, remember to answer in Welsh -this includes automatic messages as well as the subsequent reply (or replies).
Contacting staff
Only correspondence (e.g.
e-mails and Teams messages) sent to all members of staff across the whole university needs to be bilingual.
The Welsh text should be positioned to the left or above the English text so it’s likely to be read first.
Producing materials displayed in public bilingually
Please ensure that all materials that the University displays in public (including pull-ups, posters and merchandise) are produced bilingually.
Producing publicity and advertising materials bilingually
Please ensure that all publicity and advertising materials (including brochures, leaflets, any marketing, exhibition and advertising campaigns, posters and press releases) displayed or any materials sent to students or externally, are produced bilingually.
Creating bilingual documents
All documents available to students, members of the public and external organisations (including circulars, certificates, licences, procedures, rules and regulations) should be bilingual.
This includes documents in both electronic format (e.g.
those on our website and intranet) and hard copies.
If there are separate Welsh and English versions, the English version must clearly state that a Welsh version is available - please use the bilingual text below:
Mae’r ddogfen hon hefyd ar gael yn Gymraeg / This document is also available in Welsh
Documents relating to academic provision that isn’t available in Welsh can be in English only.
Staff documents relating to some areas need to be produced bilingually.
Bilingual signs and notices
All new signs and notices - including temporary ones - should be displayed bilingually.
This also applies to any signs being reissued or renewed.
Bilingual on-line services
Apps
The MyCardiffMet, Cardiff Met Sport and Met Rewards apps as well as all new apps produced by, or on behalf of the University should be available bilingually and be fully functional in Welsh (everything must work).
Programmes
The University’s Virtual Learning Sites (Moodle, Met Connect and Mahara) should be available bilingually.
This doesn’t include text relating to provision delivered only in English.
Bilingual social media
The University’s corporate level accounts, as well as those operating at an academic school/professional service level must be maintained bilingually.* Any additional accounts established below this level can operate in English only.
* This does not include in any LinkedIn accounts.
Common phrases for social media are available on the Help with Welsh page on InSite.
Bilingual website
All content on the Welsh and English version of the website must be the same (including current, new and amended pages as well as documentation).* Both languages should be updated at the same time, to ensure that the Welsh isn’t being treated less favourably than the English.
The Welsh language content must be fully functional (everything must work).
We should clearly state on the English page that it’s also available in Welsh and provide a direct link to the Welsh page on the corresponding English page.
We should also provide the same interface and menus on every page whether they are in Welsh or English.
* The only exception is information which targets international students only.
Bilingual intranet
The text of each page and all related content for students (MetCentral, MetHub and the Doctoral Academy) should be available bilingually and be fully functional in Welsh, unless specifically targeting only an international audience.
The text of each page and all related content for staff (InSite) should be bilingual.
Unless noted in another standard (e.g.
some specific forms and documents - see table at the end of this document), any content stored behind a firewall, i.e.
which is available to some members of staff rather than all staff, can be in English only.
We should also provide the interface and menus on every page in Welsh.
Maintaining Welsh services
Please ensure that all Welsh language services are treated no less favourably that the English ones by ensuring that:
Monitoring usage of Welsh documentation and services
Please ensure that a record is kept of all those that request documentation or services in Welsh.
These are the staff forms and documents which must be produced bilingually:
Staff Forms
Staff Documents
Staff, students and members of the public who speak Welsh should be able to live their lives through the medium of Welsh, so these services are really important.
Ensuring bilingual services of a high standard is easy as long as you forward plan and consider Welsh from the very beginning.
Remember that help is available from the Translation Team, which also offers a proofreading service.
Guidance is available on the Translation Service’s page on InSite.
Please send content which is seen around the campuses for proofreading after any design work for final checking before the material is produced.
If you have any questions, please contact the Welsh Language Unit .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/welsh-language-unit/welsh-language-policy:
Cardiff Met wants to support students, staff and members of the public so that they can use Welsh as part of their everyday life.
We’re also committed to promoting the Welsh language and culture in our Strategy 2030 .
Our Policy on the Welsh Language and its use in our daily work shows how we implement the Welsh Language Standards .
The document also reflects Cardiff Met’s commitment to the following principles:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/welsh-language-unit/our-students-welsh-language-rights:
The Welsh Language Standards give our students the right to receive the following Welsh language services:
We encourage students to use the language and our Welsh language services.
There are many opportunities for them to engage with Welsh, both academically and socially.
We have a lovely Welsh Community and everyone’s welcome.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/welsh-language-unit/coleg-cymraeg-cenedlaethol-at-cardiff-met:
The Cardiff Met Branch is an association of students and staff who are keen to promote Welsh medium education and opportunities for students and staff who work closely with Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol to ensure this.
Coleg Cymraeg leads the development of Welsh-medium and bilingual education and training in the post-compulsory sector in Wales.
They achieve this by working effectively in partnership with universities, further education institutions and apprenticeship providers to build a first class inclusive Welsh medium education and training system.
Hundreds of students and a significant number of staff across the University are members of the Branch and there is also an opportunity for any students or members of staff to become a member.
For more information about Coleg Cymraeg or to become a member follow the link below:
Memberships | Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol
By becoming a member you get the following:
For more information about the events of the Branch or Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, contact Dr Bedwyr ab Ion Thomas, Coleg Cymraeg Branch Officer at the Met ( metcaerdydd@colegcymraeg.ac.uk ).
Dr Bedwyr ab Ion Thomas Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol Branch Officer Cardiff Metropolitan University, Llandaff Campus, Western Avenue, Cardiff, CF5 2YB
Give our branch Instagram page, Cangen Met Caerdydd , a follow to hear the latest about events and interesting opportunities!

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/cyn-fyfyrwyr:
Fel rhan o’n cymuned fyd-eang o gyn-fyfyrwyr, bydd gennych fynediad at fuddion unigryw, cymorth gyrfa, digwyddiadau rhwydweithio, a chysylltiadau gydol oes.
P’un a ydych am gadw mewn cyswllt, dathlu cyflawniadau, neu roi rhywbeth yn ôl, rydym yma i’ch cefnogi ar bob cam o’ch taith.
Ym Met Caerdydd, rydym yn eich cadw mewn cysylltiad â chymuned y Brifysgol ar ôl graddio.
Boed trwy ddigwyddiadau, rhwydweithiau cyn-fyfyrwyr, neu gefnogaeth gyrfa, rydym yma i gefnogi eich taith a darparu cyfleoedd rhwydweithio proffesiynol.
Mynediad i ostyngiadau unigryw, cymorth gyrfaoedd, ac adnoddau'r Brifysgol.
Mynnwch gyngor CV, cymorth ar gyfer cyfweliadau, a help gyda'ch chwiliad am swydd.
Eich cyfle i ysbrydoli a chyfarwyddo myfyrwyr y dyfodol.
Dysgwch sut mae'r arolwg yn gweithio.
Sicrhewch eich bod yn derbyn diweddariadau am newyddion, digwyddiadau, a'r cyfleoedd diweddaraf ym Met Caerdydd.
Darganfod sut y gallwn eich cefnogi i gynllunio aduniad a thyfu'r rhwydwaith cyn-fyfyrwyr.
Cadw mewn cyswllt a dod o hyd i adnoddau gyrfa ar gyfer graddedigion newydd.
Ymunwch ag ein cymuned llewyrchus o gyn-fyfyrwyr , mynychu digwyddiadau, a gwneud y gorau o fanteision unigryw.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/alumni/alumni-benefits:
​​Take advantage of the services and discounts available to our alumni.
Cardiff Met offers a scheme that allows a 20% reduction in tuition fees for Cardiff Met graduates enrolling onto postgraduate programmes from September 2024.
If you are a graduate of the University or a current student studying at either undergraduate or postgraduate level, you could benefit from this discount for your future postgraduate study at Cardiff Met.
Check if you are eligible and learn how to apply or email scholarship@cardiffmet.ac.uk for more information.
All graduates are entitled to use our Careers Service.
We can help you find your first job, progress in your career, or make a change.
Our dedicated team can help with planning your career, CV and applications advice, job searching and interview practice.
Find out more about our Careers Service , or email careers@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Alumni are able to access all elements of support from the Centre for Entrepreneurship for 2 years after graduation, including workshops and 1 to 1 advice and funding.
For those who would benefit from the Catalyst Mentorship Programme, the support is extended to 5 years after graduation.
Our networking events are often open to all, and we have a growing community of entrepreneurs and freelancers on both Instagram and LinkedIn .
The Centre regularly invite entrepreneurial Alumni back in to talk to students – either to talk about their business and their experience as a founder, or to deliver a workshop or talk about an area of passion or expertise.
Contact us if you would like to help us to help our students.
MetActive Community Membership has returned!
For just £80 for 3 months, alumni get free entry to Cyncoed and Llandaff Fitness Centres, plus entry to all health & fitness classes.
Take a look at the MetActive website to join online or download the app.
Alumni can continue to use the Learning Centre spaces, physical collections and some e-resources.
Community Membership .
Alumni can apply for 'Community Borrower Membership’.
It's free to join and you can borrow up to 5 items at a time.
E-resources
Alumni can also search Cardiff Met's [metsearch.cardiffmet.ac.uk]catalogue and can continue to access a vast collection of academic journals and e-books on campus through the ‘Walk-In Access’ scheme.
To find out more, visit the Library Services website .
Cardiff Met alumni can claim a 20% discount off facilities when booking a meeting or conference at the University.
A wide range of modern facilities are available and a dedicated conference team will be on hand to assist with your event.
Find out more about our conference venues and meeting rooms , or email conferenceservices@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Cardiff Met alumni can access special discounts from many of Cardiff's premier hotels.
Website: The Angel Hotel
Ideally situated in the centre of Cardiff, this Victorian hotel is the perfect place to stay when visiting.
Please quote Cardiff Met Uni when booking to take advantage of the £75 midweek rate.
*rates are Sunday to Thursday, single occupancy Bed & Breakfast (£20 supplement for double /twin room), subject to availability and excludes town and sporting events.
Or use code ‘TEN’ on our website and receive 10% off our best available rate 7 days a week- subject to availability at the time of booking, terms and conditions apply.
Website: The Clayton Hotel, Cardiff
Situ ated right in the heart of the city on St Mary Street, the 4 Star Clayton Hotel Cardiff is one of the most conveniently located hotels in Cardiff City Centre.
Quote Cardiff Met Alumni to get the special rate from £79 B&B – subject to availability at the time of booking .
Website: Park Plaza Hotel
The award winning Park Plaza Hotel in Cardiff is located in the heart of Cardiff city centre, with 129 stylish air-conditioned guestrooms and free Wi-Fi throughout.
Quote University to book a special rate for Cardiff Met Alumni at this luxury hotel for just £99*.
To book for larger groups, weekends and spa deals, please contact Caroline, Director of Sales and Marketing, on csims@parkplazahotels.co.uk .
*rates are Sunday to Thursday, single occupancy Bed & Breakfast, Inc of free wifi and use of the Premier Spa facilities including 20m pool, spa bath and steam room plus 80 station gymnasium.
Website: Voco St.
David's Hotel and Spa
Voco St David's Cardiff is a hotel and award-winning spa with spectacular views across the Cardiff Bay and Penarth Marina.
A striking building with wonderful facilities for all guests.
Use Corporate ID code: 787062756 when booking online to receive a 10% discount off of flexible rates.
The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) programme has been running for over 40 years and is one of the UK’s leading programmes helping companies access expertise and resources available within universities.
The UK-wide programme is part funded by several organisations including Government and research councils.
A KTP is a partnership between a company, university and a graduate (Associate) who work together to deliver a strategic project for the business which the company would be unable to do without the knowledge and expertise provided by the university.
Find out more about these exciting opportunities
Collaborative projects such as the Food Industry Skills Project (FISP) and Strategic Insight Programme (SIP), provide robust solutions for specific business sectors.
If you feel that your business could benefit from working more closely with us, please get in touch with Research and Enterprise Services at business@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/alumni/graduate-outcomes:
The Graduate Outcomes Survey is a national survey sent to all graduates 15 months after they finish a Higher Education course.
It’s the biggest annual social survey in the UK and captures information about graduates’ views, experiences and current activities.
Don’t want to miss out?
Update your details .
The Graduate Outcomes survey is delivered by HESA on behalf of Cardiff Met.
It only takes around 10 minutes to complete, and you can complete it on most devices.
15 months after completing your studies, you’ll be sent a unique survey link by email and/or text, so it’s really important you keep your contact details up to date.
You may also receive text reminders or a phone call from IFF Research (on behalf of Cardiff Met) to help you complete the survey.
We will keep in touch after you graduate, sending timely reminders to let us know if your details have changed for the purposes of the Graduate Outcomes survey.
All Graduate Outcomes specific communication from Cardiff Met will cease once your cohort has commenced surveying.
The survey includes optional and mandatory questions, which focus on:
Visit the HESA website for further information about the survey , including Q&A’s for graduates.
Your valuable response adds to the collective voice of graduates across the UK and will inspire and inform future students.
As a Cardiff Met graduate, your response to the survey is important to us.
Sharing your experiences will help us to:
Your voice counts, so make sure you keep your contact details up to date and look out for your survey invitation to be part of the picture!
Don’t forget that our Careers team are here to support you for up to 3 years after you graduate.
You can still access MetHub , giving you access to further support including events, help with your CV, interview preparation skills and our ‘ask a question’ service.
If you have any questions relating to the Graduate Outcomes survey, please email alumni@cardiffmet.ac.uk or speak with our Careers team .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/alumni/update-your-details:
If you want to hear about the latest Cardiff Met news, access alumni benefits and careers support and find out about new graduate opportunities, simply make sure your contact information is up to date and we’ll do the rest!
If you haven't registered for an alumni account yet and want to update your details, choose 'New user registration' .
Please provide as much information you can, so we can verify your registration and link to your student record details.
Your new account will be set up within 5 working days.
If you have an account and your contact details have changed, (for example, you've got a new phone, new email address, or even a new job), you can login to your account at any time to update your contact details and communication preferences.
Read our alumni and supporter data processing notice to find out how we will handle and use your data.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/alumni/alumni-events:
Are you interested in hosting a reunion with fellow Alumni?
We can help!
The Alumni team can guide you on how to plan your reunion, send invites to old friends and promote your event.
Our database has thousands of Cardiff Met Alumni from a range of year groups that we can pass on your invites to*.
Or we can ask them if they are happy for us to share their contact details with you so you can get in touch with them yourselves!
We can search our database based on:
* Please note we are only able to contact those who have indicated that they are willing to receive communications from Cardiff Met.
We can provide advice on places to eat, or places to visit if you are not familiar with Cardiff and need help deciding what to get up to during your stay.
We can get in touch with your department and help organise departmental tours or visits (where possible) to see what has changed since your university days!
If you would like to host your reunion on campus, you can find out your options by contacting our Conference Services team .
If you are interested in holding your reunion in the SU bar, contact the Students Union .
Cardiff Met alumni can access special discounts from many of Cardiff's premier hotels .
If you are planning a summer reunion and need somewhere to stay, why not consider your old accommodation to add even more nostalgia to your experience?
From late June to early September, Cardiff Met offer accommodation for families, groups and individual travellers.
Or let us know about your reunion and we can find out about the availability for you.
We can share the details of your reunion on our social media and in our quarterly digital newsletters or monthly emails to help find anyone interested in attending.
It is possible that throughout your reunion planning you find Alumni who have not yet joined our community.
We would appreciate it if you would encourage anyone in your group to join so we can make our community even bigger and engage with more Cardiff Met Alumni.
After your reunion has taken place, we would love to hear about how it went and see any images of the occasion.
If you are happy for us to, we can then share these with the whole Alumni community.
If you are interested in planning a reunion and want us to help with any of this, email us at alumni@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/alumni/recent-graduates:
‘Congratulations to our newest Cardiff Met graduates!’
No matter where life takes you after university, we’re here to support you on your journey and help keep you engaged with the Cardiff Met community.
As alumni, you’ll benefit from being a part of the Cardiff Met community for the rest of your life.
We’ll help you:
The Graduate Outcomes Survey is a national survey sent to all graduates.
Find out more about Graduate Outcomes .
An alumni account enables you to keep your contact details and communication preferences up to date.
You can also sign up for our monthly Alumni Newsletters, letting you know about the latest career support, graduate resources and Cardiff Met news!
Register for an alumni account or log in to keep your email address and phone number updated.
For up to 3 years after you graduate, you can access support from our Careers Service.
Our Employability Advisors and Careers Consultants can give you CV writing advice, interview tips, or help with your job search.
Find out more about graduate careers support .
Need a copy of your certificate or transcripts, or to find out about Verification of Awards?
For all enquiries, visit our Academic Registry pages .
Cardiff Met offers a scheme that allows a 20% reduction in tuition fees for Cardiff Met graduates enrolling onto postgraduate programmes.
Find out more about all the benefits you receive as a Cardiff Met alumnus .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/alumni/about-our-alumni:
Cardiff Met is proud of all its alumni and we continue to support you as you embark on life after university.
We provide early career guidance for recent graduates and aim to keep you connected throughout your career.
We also provide opportunities for you to inspire our students by speaking at events or offering work experience opportunities, and this is just the tip of the iceberg!
We love hearing about where life has taken you since graduating and keeping you up to date with all that's going on at Cardiff Met.
Our history traces back to 1865 when the School of Art first opened in the Old Free Library in Cardiff.
Since we developed into a university, we have remained rooted in Wales while providing practice-focused and professionally oriented education to students from around the globe.
The institution has gone through numerous name changes over the years, eventually becoming what we know today​ as Cardiff Metropolitan University:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/alumni/alumni-and-supporter-data-processing:
The Alumni Office helps former students to keep in touch with the University and with fellow alumni, as well as to provide opportunities to support the work of Cardiff Met.
This statement explains how Cardiff Met handles and uses data about its alumni, friends, current and future supporters.
This statement is in addition to the University's Data Protection – Records Management Information .
The Alumni Office holds all former student data.
During the enrolment process as a student and at other times in direct correspondence with the Alumni Office, we tell you how we intend to process your personal data.
We will continue to process your personal data until we no longer have your consent to do so.
All student names, degree and contact details are copied from the University student records system (Ql-x) and are used to create a record on the Alumni Office database (the Raiser’s Edge).
Records of non-alumni supporters, donors and affiliates are also held on the database.
We also obtain personal information through direct contact with individuals including at events, through donations and other University activities.
We may also update your record based on information available in the public domain.
We hold and process this information on the grounds that it is in the ‘legitimate interests’ of the University to do this and is also beneficial to the individuals concerned (Article 6(1)(f) of GDPR).
Personal information in our records includes: name, date of birth, contact details (including email address and mobile number).
The records we hold might also contain education, career and other achievements.
Contact and relationships with the University since graduation and donations are also recorded.
In some cases other information is added; special categories of data you provide for a specific purpose (e.g.
disability or dietary requirements for event management purposes); information about your family and other relationships; financial data; and information about your areas of interest and potential to support the University.
We will retain your data indefinitely in support of your lifelong relationship with Cardiff Metropolitan University or until you request us to do otherwise.
We also collect information by tracking the links you click on in our emails and may use this to personalise digital content to you.
The Cardiff Metropolitan University website uses cookies to retain user preferences and collect website usage information via Google Analytics.
Further information on cookies, and how to disable them if desired can be found on our Cookies and Privacy Statement page.
The records are used by the University for alumni relations and fundraising purposes.
This includes sending publications (hard copy and electronic), alumni surveys, fundraising appeals, invitations to alumni events, information about other services and volunteering opportunities.
Communications may be sent by post, telephone or email.
We occasionally conduct research to help us understand our alumni, supporters and potential supporters.
This may include gathering information from publicly available resources to give an insight into your philanthropic interests and ability to support Cardiff Met.
This is sometimes referred to as 'wealth screening'.
You have the right to opt-out at any time form any or all forms of processing.
From time to time we may also conduct some analysis of our data to help us understand our alumni and supporters.
This is to produce alumni population and engagement reports and to ensure only relevant communications are sent to you.
Any reports which are produced will feature information which renders any person identifiable.
Tools may be used to monitor the effectiveness of our communications with you, including email tracking, which records when an email from us is opened and/or how many links are clicked within the message.
Your personal data will not be passed without your permission to external organisations or individuals other than those acting in a capacity as agents for the University.
Your personal data will never be sold by the University.
Within the University, we undertake regular reviews of who has access to your personal data.
Your information is only accessible by appropriately trained staff.
Your rights in respect of the personal data we hold about you are very important to us.
If you have any queries, wish to restrict data processing including use for marketing and/or fundraising or do not want to be contacted by the University, please contact us or update your preferences online .
If you chose to opt-out of all communications, minimal information is always retained to make sure you are not contacted again inadvertently (e.g.
name, degree, subject of study, year of graduation).
If your personal details change, we really appreciate you taking the time to notify us.
We will only contact you if you have consented to receive communications or if there is a specific need which also complies with data protection rules.
Under GDPR you have the right to object to the use of your data, you may opt-out of receiving particular types of communications from us and have the right to be told what information we hold about you.
Please contact us or our Data Protection Officer for more information.
If you are unhappy with the way in which your personal data has been processed you may complain directly to the Information Commissioner's Office, further information can be found at the Information Commissioner's Office website .
Your feedback is important to us.
If you have a complaint about any of our fundraising activity, you can find our complaints procedure on the Cardiff Met website.
From time to time this notice may be updated.
Any changes will normally only be notified via this webpage.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/registry/transcripts:
Are you a graduate?
Congratulations on your award!
Here is some information on how you can obtain your award documents and/or verify your degree.
The HEAR is an electronic document which contains the same information as your certificate and transcript.
It is free to access and easy to share.
If you have activated your HEAR account, you will be able to share your HEAR with future employers and other organisations via the following link: www.gradintel.com .
There is lots of further information on the HEAR webpage .
Please note HEARs are currently only available to those students who have studied on campus in Cardiff since 2016.
Students at our partner institutions should use the e-store to order documents.
Any student who has a transcript from us can request this is sent to a third party in support of an application using our Application Support Service.
This is highly successful for WES and other third-party organisations.
There is a fee to pay and the service is available via the e-Store .
A number of physical or electronic documents can be requested via the e-Store .
This includes replacement certificates, copies of transcripts, verification of award letters, and programme content documents (course syllabus/handbook).
Cardiff Metropolitan University award documents (both certificates and transcripts) from 1 November 2011 onwards are available at the e-store.
Certificates issued by UWIC (e.g.
BTEC Certificates and Diplomas from June 1996) can also be requested in this way.
Although many certificates/transcripts/letters can be provided directly by us, there are some exceptions.
Here are a few common examples:
Prior to 1 November 2011, UWIC degrees were issued by the University of Wales, who therefore issue replacements when necessary.
Details and an application form can be obtained from the University of Wales website at the University of Wales webpage ​.
Replacement certificates are obtainable from Edexcel at the following link: www.edexcel.org.uk/studying/certificates/vocational/
Replacement certificates are obtainable from City & Guilds at the following link: www.cityandguilds.com/
Please note that Cardiff Metropolitan University used to be called UWIC, and was formerly known as Cardiff Institute of Higher Education and South Glamorgan Institute of Higher Education.
We do not guarantee we hold transcripts or course information from before 1 November 2011.
However, we do hold some records and always do our best to provide support.
Our Verification of Awards team will be in touch with you after you place an order on the e-store to discuss your requirements further if necessary.
Thank you for reaching out to check the authenticity of the documents you have received.
We use the Higher Education Degree Datacheck (HEDD) online verification service for employers and agencies to verify Cardiff Met awards.
To make an enquiry you need to register with Hedd by visiting the www.hedd.ac.uk .
Select ‘Cardiff Metropolitan University’ from the list of UK higher education institutions and choose the option to 'verify a degree award'.
There is a charge of £14 per enquiry.
You will also be required to upload a consent form.
You’ll need the individual’s name, date of birth, course, and qualification.
For graduates, you'll also need their year of graduation and degree result.
If you require dates of attendance, please request this at the time of making the enquiry.
Support is available from heddhelp@prospects.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/alumni/contact-us:
Alumni Relations Team Llandaff Campus Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB
For all enquiries, including queries regarding the University of Wales, visit Transcripts, certificates and verification of awards on our Academic Registry pages.
Read our data processing notice to find out how we use and handle alumni and supporter data.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/graddio:
​Mae graddio yn ddathliad i’w rannu gyda ffrindiau, teulu ac anwyliaid.
Penllanw gwaith caled wrth ennill eich gradd.
Gallwch gofrestru ar gyfer Seremonïau Graddio 20 a 21 Tachwedd 2025 rhwng 1 Medi a 3 Hydref 2025 .
Arweiniad i fyfyrwyr sy'n graddio
Cynhelir ein seremonïau graddio mis Tachwedd rhwng 20-21 Tachwedd 2025.
Darllenwch ein canllaw ymddygiad disgwyliedig.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/graduation/graduation-ceremonies:
Register your intention to attend your Graduation via the link below.
Graduation Portal ​​
Student tickets will be sent via email to your Cardiff Met email address.
The email will arrive one week before the Ceremony.
Please note that Graduation ceremony tickets will only be sent to those students who have successfully passed their Programme of Study and registered to attend their ceremony by the deadline date.
If a student has not paid any outstanding tuition fee debts four weeks prior to the date of their Graduation ceremony they will not be entitled to attend.
Download our Terms & Conditions

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/graduation/graduation-live-stream:
Cardiff School of Technologies and Cardiff School of Management

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/graduation/graduation-merchandise:
The Studio team will be on site daily selling a range of University merchandise, including the graduation bear, scroll holders, and much more.
To avoid the items you want being sold out, or having to carry them around on the day, visit our new e-store to order your items today.
Here you'll find the full range of University merchandise, as well as some online exclusive items for Graduation.
Items can be ordered to collect from Llandaff campus, or for home delivery.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/graduation/venue:
Wales Millennium Centre Bute Place, Cardiff Bay, CF10 SAL
Cardiff Metropolitan University are proud to host its graduation ceremonies at this iconic venue.
We recommend all students and guests visit the Millennium Centre's web page if they have any questions.
For Wales Millennium Centre ticketing/venue assistance, please email graduation@wmc.org.uk and the Wales Millennium Centre team will be able to assist.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/graduation/visa-requests:
Once you have registered your attendance, you will be able to request a visa support letter via the student graduation portal.
If you are experiencing any difficulties with the online form, please direct your enquiry to the email addresses below:
Unfortunately, we are not permitted to confirm the name of your friends or family members on the letter.
If you would like them to join you in the UK, please use your supporting letter (issued by the university) plus your own letter addressed to the British Embassy stating the following to support their visa application:
Please note that your visa support letter does not guarantee that your visa application will be successful.
All applicants must meet the requirements of the UK’s Immigration Rules.
Further information of the visa application procedure and requirements can be found on the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) website .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/graduation/frequently-asked-questions:
Q.
When will my Graduation Ceremony take place?
A.
The date of your ceremony is determined by the award you achieve and the time of your exam board.
The main graduation period is held in July of each year.
Students are not given the choice of which ceremony they wish to attend due to the high numbers of students graduating at each ceremony.
How do I confirm my place at the ceremony?
Students are required to complete the on-line form via the Student Portal to inform Cardiff Met if they wish to attend the ceremony or are unable to attend.
For each ceremony there is a deadline date which must be adhered to, as Cardiff Met will not be able to facilitate any late requests due to consistently high uptakes in request for tickets.
Students only have one opportunity to attend their Graduation.
If you do not book your place by the deadline, you will not be able to attend your ceremony and you will be graduated in absentia.
You will not then be eligible to graduate at any future ceremonies for that award.
Why fill in the form if I do not want to attend the ceremony?
We use the details in the form to ensure that your certificate is sent to the correct correspondence address.
Will this guarantee my place at the ceremony?
Yes, if you successfully pass all elements of the programme that you were originally enrolled on.
On submission of your completed form, you will see a message at the top of your screen on the student portal.
What if I change my mind about attending?
If you have replied saying you do not wish to attend the ceremony then you may not change your mind once the deadline has passed.
If you have replied saying you wish to attend but are unable to do so, please email graduation@cardiffmet.ac.uk to inform us of your decision.
I studied at a Partner College (e.g., London School of Commerce or ICBT) and I or my guests require a letter for visa purposes.
Please use the Partner Student Visa Request Form available on the Graduation web pages.
How many tickets am I entitled to?
We guarantee 2 guest tickets each (this does not include the graduand).
Requests for additional guest tickets is dependent on the capacity of the venue and the response we have from students wishing to attend the ceremony.
Tickets will be emailed to your Cardiff Met student account and personal email address via a Print at Home system.
If any additional tickets are available, details of how to get them will be sent with the tickets.
Please print your tickets and bring them with you to your ceremony.
Will my tickets arrive in time if I live overseas?
Your tickets will be sent to your Cardiff Met student email account and your personal email address via a Print at Home system.
I haven’t received my graduation tickets.
Tickets are not issued until the week before the ceremony, due to examining boards still taking place up until the graduation ceremony.
We ask all graduands to be patient.
What do I do if any of my guests have special seating requirements?
We request all information regarding students and guests who have special seating requirements on the online form – it is important you inform us in advance.
Will my guests be able to sit with me?
Graduands and guests are seated separately and must sit in their assigned seats.
Can I sit anywhere?
You will receive a ticket with your seat number.
The seating arrangements are planned so that you arrive on stage when your name is being called – according to the order that is printed in the programme.
Will there be provision for disabled guests?
There are lifts at all Graduation venues to carry persons with mobility problems.
Can I take children to the ceremony?
Due to the length of the ceremony it is not recommended for children, however any child over the age of 2 years will require a separate guest ticket.
When will I receive my certificate?
If you have not already received your certificate it will be posted approximately 8 weeks after the ceremony.
Please ensure we have the correct address for you.
What if there is a mistake on my certificate?
Please contact graduation@cardiffmet.ac.uk after the ceremony to inform us and return the original certificate.
We are unable to issue a new certificate or transcript until you have returned the old certificate.
Download our Graduation Terms & Conditions .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/-ymweld-a-ni:
Hoffem estyn croeso cynnes i bob ymwelydd i Brifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd.
Fel rhan o'n Cynllun Teithio Cynaliadwy, anogwn bob ymwelydd, myfyrwyr ac aelodau staff i deithio i'r Brifysgol trwy gerdded, seiclo, trafnidiaeth gyhoeddus, neu drwy rannu ceir.
I gael gwybodaeth ar sut i gyrraedd Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd naill ai drwy drafnidiaeth gyhoeddus neu mewn car, gweler tudalennau gwe ein campysau unigol:
Campws Preswyl Plas Gwyn​
Mae Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd wedi ymrwymo i gefnogi teithio cynaliadwy er mwyn lleihau ein heffaith ar yr amgylchedd, gwella iechyd a lles ein myfyrwyr a'n staff, a chwarae'n rhan fel aelod cyfrifol o'r gymuned leol.
Mae'n Cynllun Teithio yn darparu fframwaith cynhwysfawr i adolygu a gwella arferion teithio'r Brifysgol yn barhaus, ac mae'n elfen hanfodol o werthoedd corfforaethol y Brifysgol.
Cydnabuwyd ein dull llwyddiannus o gynllunio teithio â Gwobr Lefel Aur Cynllunio Teithio Cymru yn 2011.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/visit-us/llandaff-campus:
Llandaff Campus Cardiff Metropolitan University Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB
Telephone: 029 2041 6070
Llandaff is the home of the Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences (Llandaff) , Cardiff School of Management , ​​​ Cardiff School of Technologies , and the ​​​ Cardiff School of Art & Design ​.
This is a busy and bustling campus.
With millions of pounds of recent inve​stment, it offers state-of-the art learning facilities for our students.
The campus offers excellent sporting facilities, student union, on-site shop, coffee bars, including Costa and Starbucks, and refectory.
The campus is located approximately two miles from the city centre, surrounded by numerous parks, playing fields and the historic village of Llandaff.
This campus is also conveniently located near our Plas Gwyn residential campus.
All visitors to Cardiff Met campuses are required to Pay & Display at the signed rate.
In addition, visitors to the Llandaff Campus between 08.00am and 4.00pm must report to Reception to collect a temporary parking permit to be displayed alongside their Pay & Display ticket.
Visitor Parking Spaces at Llandaff are severely limited and there is no guarantee of availability of a parking space.
For large events, please discuss parking with the organisers in advance of your visit.
We are pleased to confirm that 12 x EV chargers (22Kwh) are now available on this campus for staff, students and visitors (charges apply).​​
Llandaff Campus is easily accessible using the following Cardiff Bus Services:
For timetables and full route details visit the Cardiff Bus website .
Waun-Gron railway station is approximately 20 minutes walk away from the Llandaff campus, and is on the City Line.
See the National Rail Enquiries for train times.
Cardiff benefits from a network of cycle routes, including many traffic-free cycle paths.
The Llandaff campus is situated right next to the Taff Trail, a popular national cycle route leading from the city centre as far north as Merthyr Tydfil.
There is also a traffic-free bicycle path connecting the Llandaff campus with the Plas Gwyn residential campus, with only a short on-road section between Plas Gwyn and the cycle path entrance on Bridge Road.
As this cycle path is currently not lit, we would advise you take an alternative route when travelling late at night.
To plan your journey by bicycle to Llandaff campus, see Cycle Streets .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/visit-us/cyncoed-campus:
Cyncoed Campus Cardiff Metropolitan University Cyncoed Road Cardiff​ CF23 6XD
Tel: 029 2041 6155​
View in Google Maps​​​
Cyncoed is home to the Cardiff School of Education & Social Policy and the Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences (Cyncoed).
It is a busy campus that offers on-site accommodation and a new purpose-built Campus Centre.
The campus offers excellent sporting facilities, on-site shop, coffee bars and refectory.
The campus also acts as the head office for the Students' and Athletics Union.
Cyncoed Campus is easily accessible using the following Cardiff Bus Services:
For timetables and full route details visit the Cardiff Bus website
Heath High Level and Heath Low Level railway stations are approximately 25 minutes walk from the Cyncoed campus, serving the area from the Rhymney and Coryton lines.
See National Rail Enquiries for train times.
​Cardiff benefits from a network of cycle routes, including many traffic-free cycle paths.
To plan your journey by bicycle to Cyncoed campus, visit Cycle Streets .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/visit-us/plas-gwyn-residential-campus:
Plas Gwyn, is a residential campus with en-suite accommodation.
Please see the maps for Llandaff as these also show the location of Plas Gwyn.​
Address:
Llantrisant Road Llandaff Cardiff CF5 2XJ
The East:
​The West:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/visit-us/managed-car-parking:
​​​​​Management of University car parks is performed on its behalf by Saba Park Services.
The University wishes to preserve a safe, convenient and secure facility for the benefit of all users.
The managed car parking policy provides a fair and equitable system for the administration of car parks.
Please view our Parking Policy ​and Regulations .
Staff may apply for a parking permit in the University.
Complete your parking permit application online .
Salary Deducted Permit
Pay & Display Permit
Staff who are not monthly salaried can purchase daily, weekly, fortnightly and monthly Pay & Display tickets.
For more information, please contact carparkmanagement@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Permits are valid from 1st October until 30th June, of the current academic year.
Permits do not guarantee you to a parking space.
Permits may be issued to students who meet any of the below exceptional circumstances.
The annual cost of a student prepay permit is £180 or you can choose to pay and display at the advertised rate.
Please click here to view and complete the parking permit application form .
Blue Badge holders are exempt from charges at the University car parks.
Please ensure that you park in any of the designated disabled parking bays, with a valid Blue Badge on display.
A time limited permit, to enable parking in a designated accessibility space, is available for those with temporary incapacity or injury affecting mobility.
This pass is only approved alongside a valid pre-pay permit or Pay & Display ticket.
To apply for a temporary disability permit, please email carparkappeals@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
All visitors to Cardiff Met campuses are required to Pay & Display at the correct rate.
Visitors to the Llandaff Campus between 08.00am and 4.00pm must report to Reception to register their vehicle on a temporary, virtual, parking permit alongside their Pay & Display ticket.
Visitor parking at Llandaff is severely limited and there is no guarantee of a parking space.
For event parking, please discuss parking with the organisers in advance of your visit.
Students are not considered visitors when studying at the University.
A permit is required for parking on campus, unless stated otherwise.
Reserved visitor bays are only able to be booked internally.
Schools and Units can book reserved spaces for their visitors for the morning (08:30-13:00 (£1)), the afternoon (13:00 – 17:00 (£1)) or the whole day (08:30 – 17:00 (£2)).
The School / Unit should make their visitor(s) aware of the location and number of their allocated parking bay(s).
On arrival, if you are unsure as to the location of your reserved bay, please visit the reception on site where someone will be able to direct you.
Blue Badge Holders need not apply for a permit and are exempt from charges.
All Llandaff visitors must display a permit on weekdays between 8am and 4pm.
A temporary permit can be collected from Reception.
Tickets can be purchased via any of the Pay & Display machines in the car parks, card payments only, OR you can purchase your tickets remotely via the Saba Parking application, available for download to mobile devices via the Apple App Store and Google Play Store.
Appeal your ticket directly with Saba Parking.
Their contact details are on the reverse of your parking notice.
If you need further assistance with appealing a parking ticket, please get in touch to carparkappeals@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
All appeals will be investigated, but there is no guarantee that your appeal will be successful.
Permit cancellations must be in writing to carparkmanagement@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Email carparkingmanagement@cardiffmet.ac.uk with the details of the new car, and the car which you are replacing on the permit:
Allow 2 working days for the new permit to become active.
You will be notified via email of this once the team have processed the application.
Sign in with Reception until you receive confirmation of the changes, as you may be ticketed otherwise.
If you will be using a different car for just a day, you can sign this in via either of the reception desks on campuses.
If you are based at Alexander House or Plas Gwyn, please contact the Car Park Management team as below.
If you will be using a temporary car for a week or longer, you will need to email in the temporary car’s number plate, plus how long you will be using the different car for.
If you have an enquiry relating to Parking Infringements, Warning Notices, Enforcement, Parking Charge Notice (PCN) or other operational issues please contact:
Saba Park Services UK Limited Business Support Centre Contact Us | Saba Park UK (sabaparking.co.uk) Registered Office: Second Floor, Building 4, Croxley Park, Hatters Lane, Watford, Hertfordshire WD18 8YF
The Customer Support Centre can assist with customer enquiries, please phone 0330 123 5247.
If you have an enquiry relating to permit administration, including applications, please contact:
Car Park Management Llandaff Campus 200 Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB
Email: carparkmanagement@cardiffmet.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/dyddiadau-tymhorau:
Blwyddyn Academaidd 2024/2025
Blwyddyn Academaidd 2025/2026
Blwyddyn Academaidd 2026/2027

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/cysylltu-a-ni:
Ar gyfer ymholiadau cyffredinol ffoniwch : +44 (0)29 2041 6070
Rydym yn croesawu galwadau yn Gymraeg.
​Derbyniadau: holiderbyniadau@metcaerdydd.ac.uk ​
Ymholiadau'r wasg: press@cardiffmet.ac.uk ​ (yn cynnwys ceisiadau am arbenigwyr ac allan o oriau gwaith)
Ysgol Addysg a Pholisi Cymdeithasol Caerdydd
Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd, Campws Cyncoed, Heol Cyncoed, Caerdydd, CF23 6XD
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6771 - Opsiwn 4 Ebost: CSESPLTSE@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Ysgol Chwaraeon a Gwyddorau Iechyd Caerdydd - Cyncoed
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6771 Opsiwn 4 Ebost: CSSHSLTSE@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Ysgol Chwaraeon a Gwyddorau Iechyd Caerdydd - Llandaff
Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd, Campws Llandaf, Rhodfa'r Gorllewin, Caerdydd, CF5 2YB
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2020 5906 Ebost: CSSHSLTSE@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Ysgol Dechnolegau Caerdydd
Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd, Campws Llandaff, Rhodfa'r Gorllewin, Caerdydd, CF5 2YB
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 7191
Ysgol Gelf a Dylunio Caerdydd
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2020 5898 Ebost: csad@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Ysgol Reoli Caerdydd
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6425 Facs: +44 (0)29 2041 6940 Ebost: csm@cardiffmet.ac.uk ​
Gwasanaethau Llety
Rheolwr Gwasanaethau Llety Campws Cyncoed Bloc A Prif Adeilad Heol Cyncoed Caerdydd, CF23 6XD
Ffôn +44 (0)29 2041 6188/6189 Facs: +44 (0)29 2041 6968 Ebost: accomm@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Asesu a Dyfarnu
Campws Llandaf Rhodfa'r Gorllewin Caerdydd, CF5 2YB
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6015 Ebost: verificationofawards@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Am ymholiadau sy'n ymwneud â dogfennau dyfarnu, neu wirio dyfarniadau myfyrwyr, gweler ein gwefan: Trawsgrifiadau | Prifysgol Fetropolitan Caerdydd
Derbyniadau: +44​ (0)29 2041 6010 / holiderbyniadau@metcaerdydd.ac.uk Cyswllt Ysgolion a Diwrnodau Agored: schoolsandcolleges@cardiffmet.ac.uk ac opendays@cardiffmet.ac.uk Tîm Dylunio Corfforaethol: corporatedesignteam@cardiffmet.ac.uk​ Ehangu Mynediad: wideningaccess@cardiffmet.ac.uk Digwyddiadau: corporateevents@cardiffmet.ac.uk Y Wasg a Chysylltiadau Cyhoeddus: +44 (0)29 2041 6042​ / press@cardiffmet.ac.uk​
Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd Campws Llandaf Rhodfa'r Gorllewin Caerdydd, CF5 2YB
Ebost: alumni@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Pennaeth y Swyddfa Rhyngwladol PO Box 377 Campws Llandaf Rhodfa'r Gorllewin Caerdydd, CF5 2SG
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6045 Facs: +44 (0)29 2041 6928 Ebost: international@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Ffôn: +44 (0)20 2041 6747 Ebost: researchadmin@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Ffôn: +44 (0)20 2041 6747 Ebost: business@cardiffmet.ac.uk​​
Rheolwr Cyflysterau Chwaraeon Campws Cyncoed Heol Cyncoed Caerdydd, CF23 6XD
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6777 Ebost: sport@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Cyfarwyddwr Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr Canolfan Myfyrwyr Campws Llandaf Rhodfa'r Gorllewin Caerdydd, CF5 2YB
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6170 Ebost: studentservices@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Swyddfeydd Canolog yr Undeb Campws Cyncoed Heol Cyncoed Caerdydd, CF23 6XD
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6190 Facs: +44 (0)29 2076 5569 Ebost: studentunion@cardiffmet.ac.uk Gwefan: http://www.cardiffmetsu.co.uk/
Rhodfa'r Gorllewin Caerdydd, CF5 2YB&
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6138 Prif Switsfwrdd: +44 (0​)29 2041 6070
Campws Cyncoed Heol Cyncoedi Caerdydd,CF23 6XD
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6155
Ar gyfer ceisiadau prosbectws, cofrestrwch ar-lein yn www.metcaerdydd.ac.uk/prospectus​ .
Os oes angen i chi gysylltu â ni mewn perthynas â'ch cais, cysylltwch a ni ar:
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6010 Ebost: holiderbyniadau@metcaerdydd.ac.uk
Ar gyfer ymholiadau gan fyfyrwyr rhyngwladol, gan gynnwys sit i wneud cais, cysylltech â'n Swyddfa Rhyngwladol ar:
Ffôn: +44 (0)29 2041 6045 Ebost: International@cardiffmet.ac.uk
Cymorth Cofrestru: Ffurflen Gymorth Cofrestru
Cliciwch ar gyfer ceisiadau am wybodaeth o dan y Ddeddf Rhyddid Gwybodaeth a'r Ddeddf Diofelu Data neu ebostiwch freedomofinfo@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Ar gyfer ymholiadau anacademaidd, cysylltwch a'r parth-g.
Neu ymwelwch a'r parth-g:
Dydd Llun 9.00yb - 5.00yh Dydd Mawrth 9.00yb - 5.00yh Dydd Mercher 11.00yb - 5.00yh Dydd Iau 9.00yb - 5.00yh Dydd Gwener 9.00am - 4.30pm
www.metcaerdydd.ac.uk/cwynion

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/freedom-of-information:
​The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) 2000 provides public access to information held by Cardiff Metropolitan University.
It does this in two ways:
The Act covers any recorded information that is held by Cardiff Metropolitan University which includes printed documents, computer files, letters, emails, photographs, and sound or video recordings.
The Act does not give people access to their own personal data.
If you want to see information that the University holds about you, you must make a data protection Subject Access Request .
Cardiff Metropolitan University's FOI Policy is a statement of the University's commitment to the FOIA.
As well as responding to requests for information, the University must publish information proactively.
The Act therefore requires the University to have a Publication Scheme.
A Publication Scheme commits the University to make information available to the public as part of its normal business activities.
Classes of information include:
Cardiff Met's Freedom of Information Publication Scheme .
Anyone can make a FOI request, including organisations such as newspapers.
To make a request for information under the FOIA, you will need to:
You do not need to explain why you want the information you have asked for, although in some circumstances it may help to identify and supply the exact answers to your questions.
Providing a telephone number or an email address is also helpful but not obligatory.
Some of the information that is held by the University will have been obtained from a third party or will include reference to a third party.
When considering any requests for this type of information, the third party will be consulted before supplying the information requested.
If you would like to be informed before this consultation begins, please let us know when you make your request.
If you believe that Cardiff Metropolitan University has failed to comply with the Act, its Publication Scheme, or if you believe that a request you made wasn't properly handled or you are unhappy about the outcome of the consideration given to a request, in the first instance you can request an Internal Review.
An Internal Review is a procedure to handle any disputes or complaints arising from the outcome or handling of a request for information.
Internal Reviews demonstrate the University's commitment to openness and transparency.
For more information about how the University conducts and Internal Review, please see: How to Request Information from Cardiff Metropolitan University.
If you wish to request an Internal Review, please make one in writing to freedomofinfo@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
The FOIA is enforced by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) , which has the power to investigate complaints and, where necessary, order the disclosure of disputed information.
The ICO can also make findings about the extent to which the University has complied with the FOIA's procedural duties and with the statutory duty to advise and assist.
The ICO's contact information is:
www.ico.org.uk
Information Commissioner's Office – Wales
2nd Floor, Churchill House,
Cardiff,
CF10 2HH
Information Commissioner's Office,
Wycliffe House,
Water Lane,
Wilmslow,
Cheshire
SK9 5AF

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/support/registry/complaints:
Cardiff Metropolitan University is committed to providing high quality services and facilities for students, staff and the general public.
Integral to this is monitoring and evaluating those services to enhance quality and to ensure specified standards are met.
We have in place a variety of mechanisms to ensure that students, staff and public have the opportunity to participate fully in the development and improvement of services and it is expected that all parties will take full advantage of these in making their views known.
We recognise that there may be occasions when feedback mechanisms are not sufficient to deal with problems.
It is for this reason that a Complaints Procedure has been established.
The Complaints Procedure should be used when informal attempts to resolve the matter within the School or Unit have not resolved the issue.
Procedural advice is available from the Complaints Officer who can be contacted on email at complaints@cardiffmet.ac.uk , and independent support and advice on submitting a complaint is also available to students from Cardiff Met Students’ Union.
Online Complaints Form

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/llywodraethiant-a-chydymffurfiaeth:
Mae strwythur a llywodraethiant Prifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd yn ein galluogi i gyflawni ein hamcanion strategol a sicrhau ein bod yn cael ein rheoli'n dda ac yn atebol i'n rhanddeiliaid.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/board-of-governors:
Our Board of Governors is made up of both external and internal members, with a lay majority; they have responsibility for the educational character and mission of our university, as well as having oversight of its activities.
Key functions of the Board include considering and approving our strategic plan, which sets our university's aims and objectives, and overseeing the financial, physical, and staffing strategies necessary to achieve this plan.
Details of the work of the Board of Governors and opportunities for membership may be obtained from the University Secretary & Clerk to the Board of Governors.
In the academic year 22/23 the Board of Governors has six committees:
View Key Documents and Minutes here.
Our Independent and Co-opted Members provide specialist skills and experience to the university by providing advice, guidance, and critique on the University's strategy.
Member of: Remuneration Committee, and Strategic Planning & Performance Committee
John began his career in HR before going on to lead companies in the employment, training, economic development sectors.
His leaderships roles include work at the Training and Enterprise Council (South East Wales), the Development Board for Rural Wales, and as Chief Executive of ACAS.
Also having experience as a Non-Executive Director for a range of private, public and not-for-profit organisations, and with a passion for employment, education, and organisational development, John shared his passion further having been on the Board of the University of West London for nine years, as well as the University of Reading and Cardiff and Vale College.
John was appointed Chair from 1 August 2021 and said "The resilience and innovation shown by staff and students at Cardiff Metropolitan during these unprecedented times is nothing short of remarkable and I am looking forward to working with the Vice-Chancellor and her Executive Team as we begin to emerge from the pandemic and face the challenges of a post -Covid world."
Memberships, qualifications, and recognition:
Member of: Audit Committee
As Managing Partner of Hugh James from 1999 to 2011 and Chief Executive of Hugh James Involegal LLP from 2011 to the present day, Matthew has had a notable legal career, building up a significant client base, and transforming the business to become more digital.
Establishing a Hugh James Training Academy, Matthew has developed relationships with various educational institutions in city to provide bespoke training.
Recently appointed to the Cardiff Capital Region Business Council Board, Matthew will represent the business interests of the city whilst the region is being developed.
Matthew likes to achieve consensus where possible, and his legal background will be of significant value as a governor at Cardiff Met.
Memberships, qualifications, and recognition:
Peter was born in Cardiff and his early years were spent in Caerphilly.
His family moved to Penarth in the 1970s where he went to School then onto an apprenticeship in the motor vehicle sector.
He served in the Royal Air Force from 1984 as an Aircraft Technician for 9 years, joining the Civil Service to train Civ​ilian Apprentices upon his discharge
During his initial years with the Civil Service he returned to his studies, on a part time basis, culminating with an MA Ed from The University of Wales.
This was key in Peter's move into the field of Human Resources and appointment to the Senior Civil Service.
Peter has 10 Years Executive experience at Borad level within a Trading Fund Agency of the Ministry of Defence and 20 years with the Welsh Government.
He is currently a Non-Executive Member of the Church in Wales Representative Body and Chairs its Human Resources Committee.
The areas where Peter may be able to help and provide advice are primarily around HR and Estates the changing workplace, and linkages with the UK Government and Devolved Administrations.
Menai has a portfolio career and is an award winning Chief Executive, Non-Executive Director, and Independent Adviser.
She has thirteen years’ experience as a Chief Executive in the voluntary sector and is currently Chief Executive of LATCH Welsh Children’s Cancer Charity.
Prior to this Menai was Chief Executive of a UK-wide award winning charity, The Pituitary Foundation.
Menai is an Independent Adviser to the Senedd Cymru Commission, Trustee of Wales Council for Voluntary Action (WCVA), Chair of the Social Leaders Cymru Project Advisory Group and an Ambassador for IoD Wales.
Previously she has been a Trustee of charities including the Association of Chief Executives of Voluntary Organisations (ACEVO), Race Council Cymru and Daring to Dream and contributed in an advisory capacity to organisations such as Samaritans Cymru.
Menai has more than 20 years of experience across many disciplines, organisations and sectors and has her own consultancy company.
She is a fluent Welsh speaker, an advocate for inclusive leadership and has lived experience of being part of a minoritised community (LGBTQ+).
Holding the belief that higher education makes a fundamentally important difference to individuals, the economy and society, and committed to our values and purpose, Menai is a passionate member of the Board since 2020.
Scott spent most of his career in the hospitality sector, working with businesses such as Bass, Carlsberg, and Century Inns, as well as being the Chief Executive of SA Brain for 17 years, overseeing huge change for the business.
Scott has also sat on various boards, in the past being Chair of CBI for Wales; Wales Commissioner to the UK Commission for Employment and Skills; and has been part of the British Beer & Pub Association.
Having a diverse level of high-profile roles, Scott offers broad and practical knowledge as an Governor.
Member of: Resources Committee, and Governance & Nominations Committee
David is currently a Director of Airbus Endeavr and an owner of an international freight services business, and also brings a background in both the private and public sector, software, and management consultancy.
Whilst in the public sector, David has been in a variety of senior positions within the Welsh Government, as well as creating and leading Digital Wales and then finding and serving as CEO of Innovation Point.
Impressed by Cardiff Met's strength of purpose and potential, David contributes his knowledge and skills as governor, towards our ambitious goals in technology, innovation and entrepreneurship.
Member of: Strategic Planning & Performance Committee
A Senior Management Consultant at Accenture since 2012, Roisin provides strategic direction to c-suites, and will often focus on difficult programmes of work including digital transformation or inclusion, diversity, and behavioural measures to improve and make an organisation more impactful.
Passionate about getting more women into in tech, Roisin regularly speaks at events and schools to advocate the area.
Rosin is eager to lend her expertise as a governor, feeling the vision and values of CMU resonate with her.
Roisin finds enjoyment in helping others and supporting the next generation to drive a sustainable economy.
Karen has a wealth of experience in public sector, currently working at Lewisham Council as Interim Head of Economy and Partnerships, as well as holding previous experience at Croydon Council and past roles such as a governor at a primary school and on business improvement district boards.
With a wealth of experience in community and supporting the local population, Karen has worked with a variety of bodies to innovate and develop city regions.
Karen is particularly interested in Cardiff Met's focus on enterprise, entrepreneurship, and innovation, feeling her own passions and interests would be used well as a governor.
Member of: Governance & Nominations Committee, and Strategic Planning & Performance Committee
Paul is currently the Chief Executive of Monmouthshire County Council, where he has been for over 10 years.
However, Paul's public sector experience doesn't stop there, he's also Innovation and Business Engagement lead for the Cardiff Capital Region, Solace Wales lead for Economy and Digital, and a Board Member of SRS (wales), you can also see more below.
As well as offering his advice and knowledge in the boardroom, Paul also teaches as a visiting Professor at Cardiff University.
Paul brings a breadth of experience in in a variety of settings, from educational to entrepreneurial to public sector.
Member of: Remuneration Committee
With experience in the UK and overseas, Chris has developed a significant skillset in HR within ExxonMobil, Shell, and E.on-Npower.
Leading in change within culture and behaviour, Chris has built relationships on trust and credibility throughout the organisations he's been part of.
Chris has had a number of NED and Executive roles, notably he is currently Chair of the Doctors and Dentists Pay Review Body and Chief HR and People Officer at E.on-Npower.
Chris is keen to be part of a board in a sector that is important to him, hoping to bring his experience in commercial organisations with a focus on HR and change.
These are members of the University's staff who sit on the Board.
BA MA (Oxon), PhD
Professor Rachael Langford is our current President & Vice-Chancellor as well as being a Professor of French Cultural Studies.
Read more about Professor Langford .
M ember of: Governance & Nominations Committee
Charlie joined the University back in 2003 and currently works as Lead Technician Demonstrator: Undergraduate Studies and Digital in Cardiff School of Art & Design.
Her background is in Architecture and spatial design, and she is interested in developing approaches to teaching within technical practice.
Alongside working here at the University, Charlie is a Cardiff Met Unison steward, and joins the Board of Governors as Professional Services Representative.
Charlie has also been involved in live music, comedy and arts events.
Clare joins the ​Board as a representative of the academic staff at the University.
Dr Cathryn Elizabeth Withycombe BSc (Hons), PhD, PGCTHE, FHEA
Cathryn came to Cardiff Metropolitan University (formally University of Wales Institute Cardiff) in 2001 to undertake the BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science programme, following this she completed her PhD where she investigated the immunomodulatory properties of an organic extract of Manuka honey in vitro .
This research predominately involved working with the human cell lines looking at both immunomodulation and molecular regulation of anti and pro-inflammatory markers using organic components from Manuka Honey.
Since completion Cathryn has continued to undertake her research looking into the potential benefits nutraceuticals possess in relation to disease management.
Cathryn became an academic at Cardiff Metropolitan University in 2012, in 2016 took on the role of programme director for BSc Biomedical Science (Health, Exercise & Nutrition) and 2022 became the Principal Lecturer for Employability for Health CSSHS.
In 2014 Cathryn was awarded the Student Led Teaching Fellowship for Cardiff School of Health Sciences.
The President and Vice-President of the Cardiff Met Student's Union are ex officio members of the Board of Governors, and they ensure that the voices of the students at our university are heard.
Dan Flaherty is the 2024-25 Cardiff Met SU president, having joined the university in 2022 to study Business (finance) MBA.
Dan represented the Men’s basketball club for the past two seasons, taking part in the promotion campaign for both the BUCS Men’s 1st team into the Premier Division and the National League Men's side.
As an international student having spent a significant amount of time on both Llandaff and Cyncoed campuses, Dan has developed a comprehensive perspective on the student experience at Cardiff Met.
Dan plans to leverage this stance by promoting change on both campuses led by the collective student voice and is passionate and promoting opportunities for all students, despite their varying interests and priorities.
His key initiatives are to continue building the budget to adequately support SU Sport teams and SU Societies, ease the financial burden of transportation related expenses, and create additional student spaces on both campuses to enhance the social experience.
Rewathi Viswanatham is an MSc International Business student and the SU Vice President Education for 2024/2025 at Cardiff Met.
Having been re-elected after serving as Vice President in 2023/2024, Rewathi is honoured to continue representing the student body.
Her primary focus is ensuring that all Cardiff Met students are heard and their needs are met.
During her first term, she actively worked on initiat​ives in areas such as academic concerns, student activities, transport, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion, housing, and addressing the cost-of-living crisis.
In her current role as an Education Officer, she remains dedicated to building on these efforts, collaborating with student representatives, participating in key committees, and driving initiatives that enhance the student experience.
She is also committed to empowering students, ensuring their time at Cardiff Met is both fulfilling and impactful.
External Co-opted members of the Board are not 'full' members of the Board, and instead provide specific expert advice on matters such as HR or finance.
Lisa is currently Director of Finance and Corporate Services at the Education and Workforce Council, where she is responsible for a range of financial matters, including audit, as well as HR and other areas.
Having previously worked in leading roles at the Office of National Statistics, RSM Tenon, and EY, Lisa has an in-depth knowledge in the financial field.
With significant experience in finance and audit, Lisa is a valuable member of the Audit Committee.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/academic-board:
The Academic Board is a Committee of the Board of Governors and is responsible for advising the Vice-Chancellor and the Board of Governors.
The Academic Board is both the University’s academic authority and its senior decision-making body for resources which support the University at a strategic level.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/university-executive-group:
The University Executive Group (UEG) is the senior leadership team.
The UEG supports the Vice-Chancellor in providing strategic leadership for all Executive portfolios.​
The President & the Vice-Chancellor is the most senior member of executive staff at the University, acting as both the academic and administrative head, overseeing all the activities that take place at Cardiff Met.
The Vice-Chancellor is accountable to the Board of Governors and MEDR and is responsible as line-manager for the other members of the University's Executive Group.
Other key responsibilities include:
Professor Rachael Langford
Read more about Professor Rachael Langford
Professor Katie Thirlaway
Professor David Brooksbank
Professor Sheldon Hanton
Stephen Forster (Interim)
Lowri Williams
Dr Bethan Gordon
Dr Cecilia Hannigan-Davies
Professor Julia Longville
Professor Jon Platts
Dr Huw Wiltshire
Ruth Davies

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/vice-chancellor:
Professor Rachael Langford has been President and Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff Metropolitan University since February 2024, having been the University’s Deputy Vice-Chancellor since 2021.
Rachael is a modern linguist by academic background and holds a BA and MA in French (Oxford University) and a PhD in French Cultural Studies from Cambridge University.
She has researched and taught widely on nineteenth-century French cultural studies and on postcolonial and colonial French-speaking cultures, particularly film and photography.
As Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Rachael was the executive lead for international engagement and for marketing, communications and student recruitment, as well as for the strategic planning, resourcing and oversight of the academic mission of the 5 academic Schools.
Prior to being appointed Deputy Vice-Chancellor in 2021, Rachael was Executive Dean (International Recruitment) of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences at Oxford Brookes University.
Prior to that, Rachael was Head of the School of Modern Languages at Cardiff University for a number of years, having previously been Director of Research and Director of Postgraduate Research Students for Modern Languages, including leading on key aspects of REF2014 submission.
A native-level speaker of French and fluent Welsh speaker, Rachael is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and continues to research and publish in her areas of expertise, as far as her leadership responsibilities permit.
If you would like to contact the Vice-Chancellor, please email vc-office@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Vice-Chancellor’s Office Cardiff Metropolitan University Maritime House Western Avenue Cardiff CF5 2YB

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/chancellor-and-pro-chancellor:
Stephen Wordsworth CMG LVO
The Chancellor is the ceremonial head of Cardiff Metropolitan University.
Prior to becoming the Executive Director of the Council for At Risk Academics (Cara) in 2012, Stephen had a notable career in diplomacy.
First joining the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in 1977, Stephen went on to serve in Moscow, Nigeria, Germany and at NATO, before becoming UK Ambassador to Serbia.
In 1992, Stephen was appointed Lieutenant of the Royal Victoria Order (LVO) by Her Majesty the Queen, for his part in the organisation of the Queen’s first State Visit to the reunited Germany during the same year.
Then, in 2011, Stephen was made a Companion of the Order of St Michael & St George (CMG).
After leaving the Foreign & Commonwealth Office, Stephen joined Cara.
Cara was founded in 1933 in response to the Nazis’ decision to expel, on racial grounds, leading academics from Germany.
Now, the charity, with the support of UK university partners and others, provides sanctuary for academics and their families fleeing persecution and violence in countries such as Syria, Afghanistan, and Ukraine.
You can read about Cardiff Met’s relationship with Cara on our news pages.
Stephen has also held various voluntary positions, such as Vice-Chair of New York-based Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attack, and Trusteeships of the British and Foreign School Society and the Slynn Foundation.
Stephen’s distinguished global career and Welsh roots (having been born in Port Talbot) make him an outstanding addition to, and representative of, Cardiff Metropolitan University.
With Cardiff Met’s values, goals, and cultural relations with our extensive international network, Stephen is well-aligned to be our University Chancellor.
On 1 April 1996 the Board of Governors resolved to appoint a President of the University and to invite the Lord Mayor of the City and County of Cardiff ex officio to be the incumbent of that office.
On 7 July 2015, having resolved to establish the position of Chancellor of the University, the Board of Governors further resolved to appoint the Lord Mayor of the City and County of Cardiff ex officio as Pro-Chancellor and Honorary President.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/key-documents-and-minutes:
This page contains the key documents that regulate the University.
This also includes the terms of reference governing the Board of Governors’ Committees and their annual reports, as well as minutes of the Board of Governors’ meetings.
The Scheme of Delegation records where authority rests within Cardiff Metropolitan University for decisions made in the name of, or on behalf of, the University.
It forms part of the governance documentation that explains how the University operates and the powers of its various decision-making groups.
The Articles of Government and the Instrument of Government are the legal documents which govern the way Cardiff Met must conduct itself and carry out its operation.
These documents set out key responsibilities of the Board of Governors, Vice-Chancellor, and Academic Board, and the basis of which these responsibilities can be delegated, as well as procedural rules.
The Statement of Primary Responsibilities sets out the primary responsibilities of the Board of Governors at Cardiff Met.
The Standing Orders relate to how business is conducted by the Board of Governors and its Committees, such as election and appointment processes, how meetings are conducted, and how emergency matters take place.
The Code of Conduct is a guide for members of the Board of Governors and its Committees.
The Code indicates the standard of conduct expected of them and is to enable Governors to understand and carry out their legal duties.
The Board of Governors and the Executive worked together to develop the Statement of Relationship to clarify the roles of each body, as well as setting out expectations.
This Statement will be reviewed on an annual basis to ensure effective working relationships and understanding between the key leaders and decision-makers at the University.
In 2020/2021 the Board of Governors commissioned the Halpin Partnership to carry out a governance effectiveness review , as recommended in the Committee of University Chairs Higher Education Code of Governance.
Reviewing Board effectiveness on a regular basis is a standard of good practice in governance.
The report was approved by the Board of Governors in February 2021.
Implementation of the recommendations has been overseen by the Governance and Nominations Committee throughout 2021/22.
Terms of Reference set out the Committee's purpose and the limit of its authority in line with the University's Scheme of Delegation.
The Annual Reports of the Committees provide information on the business and decisions made of these Committees during the previous academic year.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/finance:
View the Cardiff Metropolitan University Financial Statements for the last few years:
For more information, please contact financedepartment@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/data-protection:
​The UK General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a UK law which came into effect on the 1st January 2021.
It sets out the key principles, rights, and obligations for most processing of personal data in the UK, except for law enforcement and intelligence agencies.
The UK GDPR is based on the EU GDPR which applied in the UK before the 1st January 2021, with some changes to make it work more effectively in a UK context.
The aims of the UK GDPR are:
The Data Protection Act 2018 ( DPA18 ) is necessary to fill in the gaps where the UK GDPR is silent; to clarify UK law where it is needed, and to deal with circumstances where the GDPR does not apply.
The DPA18 sits alongside and complements the UK GDPR.
We are committed to protecting the rights of individuals in line with the UK GDPR and the DPA18 by protecting them from unwanted or harmful use of their personal data (information about them), by ensuring that we process this information in a responsible and accountable way.
Accountability is a key theme running throughout data protection law.
As a Data Controller (the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which alone or jointly with others determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data) we must show accountability to the law by a) appointing a Data Protection Officer and b) embedding data protection into our operations by implementing internal policies and procedures.
Cardiff Metropolitan University's Data Protection Officer is Mr.
Sean Weaver.
He can be contacted via email at dataprotection@cardiffmet.ac.uk .
Cardiff Metropolitan University's Data Protection and Records Management policies are a statement of the University's commitment to comply with data protection law.
Data protection law also contains several rights for individuals; these rights are fundamental to how data protection works:
The rights available to individuals depend on what personal data is being processed and why:
If after having read this information you would like more information about your rights or want to contact us to assert a right, we would encourage you to get in touch as follows:
You can also download the University's How to Request Information document for further guidance.
The best known and most frequently exercised of all of the individual rights is the right of access, often referred to as the right of 'subject access'.
Individuals have the right:
For more information about the right of access, please see: Right of access
For more information about exercising your Right of Access please read the following document: The Right of Access (Subject Access) – Guidance for the Requester
We will normally ask you for proof of your identity if you contact the University to exercise any of your individual rights.
As a Data Controller, the University is required to pay a fee to the Information Commissioner's Officer (ICO) because it is responsible for the processing of personal data.
The University is thus included on the ICO's register of fee payers .
The University's details include:
The Information Commissioner is the UK's statutory regulator for data protection legislation responsible for:
If the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) is satisfied that a person has failed or is failing to comply with data protection legislation it can impose a higher tier fine of up to 20 million Euros or 4% of total worldwide turnover, or a lower tier fine of up to 10 million Euros or 2% of total worldwide turnover.
If you believe that Cardiff Metropolitan University is failing to comply with data protection legislation, that a request you made wasn't properly handled, or you are unhappy about the outcome of the consideration given to a request, please contact Mr.
Sean Weaver, Data Protection Officer at dataprotection@cardiffmet.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/student-charter:
The Student Charter is a high level partnership document which is applicable to all within Cardiff Metropolitan University’s diverse student body.
It is developed jointly by the University, the Students’ Union and students to deliver a student experience which is consistent with the vision, values and priorities within Strategy 2030 .
The below over-arching expectations, which speak to Cardiff Met’s community values, apply throughout all of the themes and commitments laid out within the Student Charter.
All within the Cardiff Met community should:
The University commits to:
The Students’ Union commits to:
Students commit to:
This Student Charter applies to all students enrolled on a programme of study during academic year 2025/26.
The University will service its contractual obligations to students and comply with its commitments under consumer law as outlined by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA).
In doing so, universities will work to protect the student interest when responding to circumstances such as significant changes to how a course is delivered or course closure.
The University has in place procedures to respond to these circumstances which will mitigate the potential impact on students, and which recognise the different needs of its diverse student body.
For further information regarding this Student Charter please contact:

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/about/governance-and-compliance/whistleblowing:
The University is committed to conducting its business ethically and honestly and we expect all our staff to maintain high standards of behaviour.
However, we also recognise that, like all other organisations, we face the risk of things going wrong on occasion.
The University's Whistleblowing Policy aims to encourage staff to make disclosures relating to actual or potential danger, fraud or other illegal or unethical conduct that is in the public interest.
The Policy has been written to take account of the provisions of the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 and provides protection to employees raising genuine concerns.
If you wish to raise any issues under the Policy or require any additional information, please email whistleblowing@cardiffmet.ac.uk or get in touch with one of the contacts listed in section 11 of the Policy.

New sentences found on https://cardiffmet.ac.uk/cy/ynglyn-a-ni/polisiau:
Croeso i Hyb Polisïau Metropolitan Caerdydd lle byddwch yn dod o hyd i holl ddogfennau polisi'r Brifysgol wedi’u trefnu yn ôl thema:
Mae polisïau'n darparu datganiad o egwyddorion sy'n nodi sut y bydd y Brifysgol yn gweithredu mewn maes gweithredu penodol.
Maent yn darparu cyfeiriad ac arweiniad, yn sefydlu egwyddorion a chyfrifoldebau allweddol, ac yn nodi gofynion sylfaenol.
Mae gweithdrefnau a chanllawiau manylach sy'n pennu sut y gweithredir polisi yn ymarferol ar gael yn gyffredinol drwy gysylltu â'r adran berthnasol.
Mae rheoliadau academaidd a pholisïau a gweithdrefnau cysylltiedig ar gael fel rhan o'r Llawlyfr Academaidd.
Mae'r Llawlyfr yn cynnwys rhai o'r dogfennau polisi pwysig canlynol:
Mae'r wefan hon yn cydymffurfio'n rhannol â Chanllawiau Hygyrchedd Cynnwys y We fersiwn 2.1 fel y manylir yn Natganiad Hygyrchedd Gwefan y Brifysgol .
Efallai na fydd rhai o'r dogfennau polisi sydd ar gael ar y safle hwn yn cwrdd â safonau hygyrchedd.
Wrth inni adolygu a diweddaru'r dogfennau hyn, byddant yn cwrdd â safonau hygyrchedd.
I ofyn am unrhyw ddogfennau polisi mewn fformatau gwahanol, anfonwch e-bost at policies@cardiffmet.ac.uk .