# Site: https://www.derby.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 470
# --------

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk:
All you need to know to choose your course, from foundation to bachelors or integrated masters
Ready for advanced study?
Explore our Postgraduate Courses and Research Degrees
Discover our part-time online courses for study any time, anywhere
Looking to improve your skills or change career?
A short course could be the key
Visit us and see for yourself what it's like to study here.
Chat to our students, meet the teaching team and explore the campus.
Let the adventure begin.
Where could you be living?
Culture, adventure, fun, sport, shopping.
Derby has lots to offer, whatever you love doing
Make friends, learn a skill or share your interests with our varied clubs and societies
How to make the most of your time - on campus and beyond.
Discover how we are pushing the boundaries of innovation and research and learn about our approach
If you have a curious, independent mind then join us.
Explore your options for research degrees
Learn more about our researchers and our research focus
Whether you are from industry or academic, we're always keen to collaborate on research projects
Explore our research case studies and discover how our research is having a real world impact
Find out how we encourage and support research activity at our University
Join us at an Open Event to meet our expert academics and find out more about postgraduate opportunities.
Discover how you can benefit from working with us.
Get in touch with the relevant team to find out how we can make a big difference to your business.
Coral reefs are dying off at an alarming rate.
Our Aquatic Research Facility is carrying out work with organisations across the globe to make corals more resilient in the face of man-made afflictions.
At the University of Derby, you're not just choosing a place to study - you're choosing to transform your future.
There are scientific models that suggest that by 2030, 90% of the coral reefs will be extinct.
Although the University of Derby is not by the coast, Michael Sweet, Professor of Molecular Ecology has developed a pioneering technique which encourages corals to reproduce.
In the wild corals spawn once a year, at night just after a full moon.
These baby corals can then be transferred onto damaged reefs, paving the way for international conservation efforts and ultimately, saving precious marine life, including the beloved turtle.
Our students are at the heart of this project and are working alongside academic researchers to share this important knowledge with other organisations and institutions across the world.
This research will have a game-changing impact on coral reef restoration.
The turtle symbolises our research ethos to build a better future for everyone, and this image acts as a constant reminder that through our work we are making a powerful, direct and measurable impact on the world.
The University of Derby is turning the tide in the world of aquatic research and the story of coral spawning at Derby featured in The Times in January 2024.
Our research is also having an impact in health and long Covid, the arts, criminology, psychology, energy, law, artificial intelligence and many other fields.
The future is you.
Find out more about our world-leading research
In September 2023, the University of Derby received the prestigious Gold rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023, making it one of the top universities in the UK for exceptional student experience and outcomes.
The TEF, administered by the Office for Students, is a national initiative designed to drive improvements and promote excellence in areas most valued by students: teaching quality, learning environment, and the achievement of positive results from their studies.
In addition to achieving an overall Gold rating, the University of Derby excelled in the individual components of the TEF, achieving Gold for student experience and Silver for student outcomes.
Read the full press release.
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to come to an Open Day.
Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Join us at an upcoming on-campus Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Climate change and dying coral reefs pose the greatest threats to our global environment, but with our pioneering research interventions, we are creating sustainable solutions to safeguard the future of our planet.
Begin your business journey at the stunning new Cavendish Building,
            home to our exceptional range of business courses.
We are accelerating small-business growth, breaking down barriers and creating unrivalled opportunities for entrepreneurs to innovate and thrive.
Our Civic University Agreement reaffirms our ongoing commitment to playing our part in the prosperity and wellbeing of Derby and Derbyshire.
Our students and graduates are making an impact in our region and around the world by using their knowledge and skills to drive innovation and change.
Order your compact print version for a quick guide to studying at Derby.
Or opt for our fully digital prospectus, tailored to your interests and delivered directly to your inbox.
Prospective students are being invited to experience university life this summer before making their application decisions.
Posted: 12 August 2025
Posted: 7 August 2025
Sport science students have been given a unique opportunity to take part in preparing Derby County Football Club Men’s first-team for the upcoming season.
From 1 August 2025, the University of Derby’s further education and skills provision will be known as University of Derby – Buxton, marking a new chapter in the institution’s long-standing commitment to delivering life-changing education in the region.
Posted: 1 August 2025
A nursing lecturer at the University of Derby has climbed Mount Everest as part of a personal challenge to summit seven of the world’s highest peaks to showcase the strength of the profession.
Posted: 29 July 2025

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/courses:
Browse A-Z courses
Looking for an undergraduate course at the University of Derby?
Find out which course to study by taking a look through our undergraduate subject areas.
Browse Undergraduate Subjects Browse Undergraduate Subjects
Considering a postgraduate course at the University of Derby?
Discover your ideal programme by exploring our postgraduate subject areas.
Browse Postgraduate Subjects Browse Postgraduate Subjects
Find undergraduate, postgraduate, professional, foundation, part-time and short courses to study in Derby and Chesterfield.
Use our university course finder to get details of foundation , undergraduate , postgraduate , professional , masters and research degrees.
Filter by study option depending on whether you want to study full-time, part-time or online.
Search for undergraduate degree courses including BA, BSc, and BEng, and postgraduate degree courses including MA, MSc, and MBA.
If you're interested in studying for a PhD or MPhil, find out more about research degrees .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study:
A university relevant today and focused on tomorrow.
Recognised for teaching excellence and strength in applied research.
An ambitious university of respected professors, active practitioners and leading professionals.
Search our range of degrees and courses to find the perfect one for you: undergraduate , foundation , postgraduate , online , short courses or research .
View our exciting range of undergraduate degrees or if you’re not quite ready for that, consider a foundation course.
A variety of further study options, including masters degrees, teacher training and professionally-accredited qualifications.
Browse our CPD modules and short courses.
Learn about some of the newest and most pressing issues of today.
Find out about studying with the University of Derby Online Learning, a leader in online education for almost two decades.
Be curious.
Make a real and positive impact on our world by undertaking an applied research degree (PhDs and MPhils).
We deliver higher and degree apprenticeships in collaboration with employers.
Find out more.
How can your degree set you up for career success?
At the University of Derby, our students dive straight into real world environments, from state-of-the-art labs to creative studios and mock hospital wards.
Hear from our staff and students about how our industry-standard facilities and connections help you build confidence and practical skills.
And discover how internships, personal support, and innovative assessments bring your learning to life.
View Beyond the classroom: What makes learning and teaching at university different video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life:
For many of our students, we’re much more than a place to learn.
We’re a home from home, a place to make new friends, enjoy new experiences and grow as a person.
Life at university is not just about the course, it's a chance for you to get involved in extracurricular activities, from sports clubs and societies to volunteering and discovering the world beyond the campus.
Take a look at what Derby has to offer and if you like what you see, why not book your place at an Open Day .
It will give you the chance to explore our campus, talk to our expert academics about your course and chat with our current students.
View Student social life video transcript
Find out about our campus and facilities.
See inside all of our halls.
We are an ambitious, modern university and a much-loved second home to 1,700 international students from 100 countries.
Find out how the Union can make your student life better.
Learn about sports opportunities and facilities.
Discover what it’s like to live in Derbyshire.
Our university celebrates diversity and recognises the challenges of being human and the significance and impact of inclusion within an organisation.
We want to give everyone the support they need to thrive so we offer a range of services that can help you during your application and once you get here.
With the fast rise in the cost of living, it's more challenging to balance spending.
Learning how to be clever with your money has become necessary, so here are several ways that the University of Derby can support you.
Whether you’re looking to remain connected to home life, balance your studies with other commitments or save costs, commuting could be a great choice.
This video was designed and filmed by students, for students.
Let them tell you what it feels like to be part of the University of Derby.
View "The University of Derby makes me feel..." video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students:
Welcome to the University of Derby, an applied university located in the heart of the UK.
We are proud to welcome more than 2,000 international students from over 100 countries studying at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Start your UK adventure at Derby and discover your dream course.
We are a Top 15 UK university (Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025).
All the information you need to know about fees for University of Derby courses and the different ways you can fund your studies.
Find out which qualifications you need to study your dream course.
Find details of the scholarships, bursaries and discounts available to international students which can be used together to reduce your tuition fees.
Find out how you can apply and begin your Derby journey.
Our award-winning accommodation gives international students a safe, welcoming home away from home.
We have 3 offers available across 7 halls, depending on your budget.
When you choose to apply here, you’re choosing much more than a course.
You’re choosing to be part of our student community, you’re choosing Derbyshire as a place to live.
We have a team of recruitment officers, representatives and agents who can help you with your application and help answer any questions you have about studying and living in Derby.
Originally from the USA, Tyra, Senior Ministerial Visit and Events Manager for the Department for Work and Pensions, always aspired to live and study in the UK.
If you are already an applicant, you can find out information about visa and welfare support, fees and finance, travelling here, accommodation and welcome events.
The International Foundation Programme is an introduction to university level study and to the UK.
The programme will develop your academic writing, reading, listening and speaking skills, and give you a recognised English language qualification so you can progress onto your chosen degree.
We’re excited that you’re considering studying at the University of Derby; a much-loved second home to more than 2,000 international students from over 100 countries.
At the University of Derby, we are powering the next generation of industry thought leaders, policy makers and creative talents with one simple promise in mind - to make a positive impact.
You will be taught by leading academics who specialise in research areas that are of critical importance now and for the future, including zero carbon, climate change and artificial intelligence.
You will graduate with in-demand skills, practical experience and valuable industry contacts that are needed to embark on a life-changing career.
Your story starts in Derby, but your success will take you on a worldwide adventure.
As part of our commitment to our international student family, we are delighted to offer the Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship for courses starting September 2025.
Subject to conditions, you could be eligible for the award of £2,000, which will be deducted from your first-year tuition fee.
This £2,000 scholarship is in addition to our existing Full Payment Discount whereby students who pay their annual tuition fee in full ahead of enrolment benefit from a £1,000 discount.
V isit our scholarships webpage to check if you are eligible.
Derby is a diverse and welcoming city.
The Purple Flag awarded the city of Derby as a safe and inclusive place where international students can immerse themselves in British culture and enjoy once-in-a-lifetime experiences.
So what are you waiting for?
Find your dream course, apply now and begin your Derby adventure in September!
Derby is a compact but versatile city, the ideal size.
Located in the Midlands, it’s in the heart of the UK, so you can explore the rest of the country.
Just get in the car, jump on the bus or take the train to start your new adventure.
Studying in the UK is good value for money; the average cost is lower than studying in the USA or Australia.
While living expenses are set by lifestyle, spending habits and accommodation, it has been estimated that students spend a minimum of £1,136 a month.
Discover more information about the entry requirements, scholarships available, student stories and how to contact our representatives in your region.
Welcome to students from Africa.
Find out more about scholarships and fees, entry requirements and what it's like to live and study in Derby.
Welcome to students from China.
Welcome to students from Europe.
Welcome to students from India.
Welcome to students from the Middle East.
Welcome to students from Pakistan.
Welcome to students from South East Asia.
Welcome to students from the USA.
Can’t make it to our Open Day in person?
Don’t worry, our virtual tour is the next best thing.
Explore the University of Derby from wherever you are in the world and catch a glimpse of your new student life.
View Where is Derby?
video transcript
Our dedicated enquiry team can help to answer any questions you have about studying with us and can offer guidance and support with your application.
At Derby, we offer a warm welcome, lots of support and interesting places to discover – from bright, busy cities to peaceful countryside.
If you need support – either with your course or with life as an international student – we’ll make sure you get it.
Our highly-rated international support services will be here for you.
If English isn't your first language you will need an English language qualification to study at Derby.
Derby English Language Centre (DELC) offers you the opportunity to develop your English language skills at one of the UK’s top performing universities for fair access.
Your degree is only part of your story.
Work experience, placements, CV and job search advice, workshops and events - there’s plenty of help at hand.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research:
Innovation and research is critical to delivering excellence and opportunities.
It enables us to advance knowledge, improve our learning and teaching, contribute to our research-informed curriculum, prepare our learners for the future, and help organisations in the region innovate and thrive.
To develop the most innovative solutions to real-world problems, we collaborate across six academic themes.
Aligned to some of the local and global challenges we face, our interdisciplinary approach brings our experts together to deliver the greatest impact.
Explore our six academic themes Explore our six academic themes
The University of Derby’s Innovation and Research Strategy reflects our aims to be an internationally recognised leader in high-quality research.
Our four organisational values sit at the heart of this strategy and guide our approach.
Discover our Innovation and Research Strategy Discover our Innovation and Research Strategy
Discover PhDs, MPhils and Professional Doctorates that are available and our research community.
Whether you're from industry or academia, we're always keen to collaborate on research projects.
Find out about our research and academic vacancies and how we support our staff.
Find out how we encourage and support research activity at our University.
Browse through staff and student researchers, discover their expertise and make contact.
Find out more about our research leadership, strategy and management.
Inaugural lectures are a significant milestone in any academic's career, recognising their promotion to Professor.
This series provides an opportunity for our new professorial colleagues to showcase their research with a broad audience, including members of the public, family, friends and colleagues
Stay up to date with everything innovation and research: the latest news stories, events and articles from the blog.
Ever wondered how students, technicians, and lecturers contribute to groundbreaking university research?
We hear about the experiences of four individuals who are making a difference every day.
Discover the vital roles they play in advancing knowledge and shaping the future through their careers in research.
View Making a difference: Inside the minds of University of Derby Researchers video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services:
Accelerating small-business growth, breaking down barriers and creating unrivalled opportunities for entrepreneurs to innovate and thrive.
Here at the University of Derby, we are closing the gap between research and impact to make a real difference.
We are right at the heart of the issues and challenges that matter - to our city, our region, to business, industry and our communities and society in general.
Investing in our future, partnering with sector-leading businesses to drive innovation and create a collaborative environment where research has real impact and graduate talent can flourish.
Whether you're exploring collaboration, training, or support, or looking to navigate our business services, partnerships, and opportunities, get in touch via our enquiry form to speak to our team.
Enquiry form 0800 001 5500
Subscribe to receive our e-newsletter Follow us on X @Derbyunibis Follow us on LinkedIn
If you already know what service you want, choose from one of the following options.
Find funding for your projects or see if you're eligible for our fully funded business support and training.
Access expertise and funding to help accelerate your company's R&D.
Invest in your people with our apprenticeships, short courses, funded training and bespoke programmes.
Work with our talented students and graduates through internships, placements, projects and mentoring.
Hire our facilities - from co-working spaces and start-up units to conference rooms and specialist labs.
Advance your knowledge and grow your network: these are our upcoming events for business people, most of which are free to attend.
They include conferences and networking events, business advice works...
Learn more about what enterprise support is available for your business
If you have an idea for a new business or are in the early stages of establishing yourself, see how we can help.
If you're ready to grow your business, see what support and funding we can offer.
Even if your business is well-established, there are plenty of ways we can add value.
We are supporting growth and prosperity across our region by working with our industry and academic partners to champion employee wellbeing, nurture new enterprise and provide industry-specific expertise.
This is establishing our region's profile and reputation as a centre for business and innovation both nationally and internationally.
We have supported businesses at the beginning of their journey, such as Goldbox , as well as established businesses, including Sure Screen and E.ON .
Over the past year, the University of Derby has celebrated excellent achievements.
Read our Annual Impact Report to explore the highlights of our 2023/24 academic year.
We're building a new home for Derby International Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence.
The new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Businesses across Derby and Derbyshire are being encouraged to put themselves forward for The King’s Awards for Enterprise, as a University of Derby alumnus shares the transformative impact the prestigious recognition had on him.
Ahead of starting university in September, prospective students had the chance to step into the world of professional football during a VIP experience event at Derby County Football Club.
An innovative project exploring the use of hydrogen fuel cell technology in the rail freight industry.
An innovative, three-year project aimed at revolutionising the railway industry using artificial intelligence has been launched by the University of Derby and Sperry Rail.
Influential business leaders from Derby and Derbyshire were granted an exclusive preview of The Cavendish Building, which is set to be home to the Derby Business School in 2025.
Read our Business Services Charter , which sets out the quality of service you can expect from us.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni:
Congratulations on completing your studies at the University of Derby!
As a member of our alumni community, you now enjoy various benefits, support, exclusive discounts, and career support for up to three years.
We want to stay connected with you, no matter when you graduate from the University of Derby.
Make sure you update your details to hear about benefits and opportunities.
As a member of our University of Derby Alumni community, you have access to exclusive benefits that can assist you in your career - and help you make the most of your leisure time.
For three years after you graduate, you have full access to the University’s Careers and Employment Service.
Our alumni have achieved great things following their studies with us.
Find out more about their success stories.
The Graduate Outcomes Survey will be crucial in helping us to evaluate and promote our courses, in turn assisting current and future University of Derby students to make informed choices.
What happens to your university account after you leave?
You will have access to your university account for three months after your programme is formally completed.
We can provide services and documents to help you verify your higher education achievements.
Browse through our upcoming events aimed at graduates or soon-to-be graduates, including graduation ceremonies, reunions, recruitment fairs and careers workshops.
We firmly believe in the transformational nature of education and impactful applied research.
As a champion of social mobility, we strive to inspire and create opportunities for all across our region.
Order your University of Derby alumni merchandise.
Calling all University of Derby alumni!
We want to know how studying at the University of Derby opened doors for you, and whether you can open doors for others.
Through online study, our students worldwide are gaining new knowledge and newfound confidence, developing their skills, making new contacts and connections and excelling in their careers whilst juggling work and family life
Explore your digital postgraduate prospectus and find out what you need to know about studying with us.
When you sign up, tell us what you're interested in and we'll send you a link to information put together just for you.
A selective group of distinguished alumni, partners and donors of the University of Derby gathered for an exclusive event to hear about its latest projects and plans.
A practising criminal barrister and TV crime adviser who studied at the University of Derby has been telling guests at a parliamentary reception how studying for a degree transformed her life.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate:
Study your undergraduate degree with us and we will stretch, challenge and support you to achieve your ambitions and make a difference.
Want to experience what Derby has to offer?
Join us at our next Open Day
We know there’s a lot to consider when choosing a university.
This is going to be a place where you’ll spend the next three or four years of your life, so it’s really important to find somewhere you’ll feel happy and at home.
Here’s a glimpse of what you can expect as a University of Derby student.
Learn from the best:
We offer an exciting range of undergraduate courses in a variety of subjects, with options to study full-time, part-time, on-campus, joint honours or online .
And as an undergraduate student, you’ll have access to our most advanced equipment and specialist learning facilities, giving you valuable hands-on experience from day one.
Find out which course to study by taking a look through our undergraduate subject areas from Accounting to Fashion and Textiles to Journ...
Our undergraduate prospectus provides you with the perfect introduction to life as a student here at the University of Derby.
Want to know more about what it's like to be a student at the University of Derby?
Chat to our student ambassadors now.
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day.
With real-world projects built into over 70 courses, you get to experience hands-on learning, tackle real challenges, and prepare for the world of business.
Business Management
Business Management and Entrepreneurship
Business Management and Finance
International Business and AI in collaboration with Rolls-Royce
Business Management and Human Resource Management
Business Management and Marketing
Finance and Technology
International Business Management
Do you need help with applying ?
Or have questions about fees and finance ?
Our dedicated pages will help.
Parents and guardians , we've created a section just for you, full of information to help you guide your son or daughter through this important time in their life.
And you can find out guidance and advice specifically for mature students .
Our students and graduates are people just like you.
And they are making an impact in our region and around the world by using their knowledge and skills to drive innovation and change.
You can be part of that story.
Let our students and graduates tell you theirs.
Choose Derby and receive a world-class education delivered by expert academics.
Be a gamechanger, business leader, digital pioneer, groundbreaker, trailblazer, creative innovator, lifesaver or moviemaker.
Be whatever you want to be.
View Teaching Excellence video transcript
New analysis from Universities UK of government LEO (Longitudinal Education Outcomes) data reveals that individuals who choose to attend university earn substantially more over their lifetimes compared to those who do not, regardless of the region they are from.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate:
Whether you want to become an expert in your field, gain new skills to take a new direction or pursue your passion for the subject you love, you can transform your future with postgraduate study at Derby.
Join us at our next on-campus Postgraduate Open Event
A postgraduate qualification is a positive investment in your future.
It is your opportunity to become more specialised in your chosen area, developing in-depth knowledge and expertise that can set you apart.
We offer a wide range of postgraduate courses and flexible study options, including part-time and online.
You will be taught by world-leading academics who are at the forefront of groundbreaking research in areas of critical importance for the future.
Our partnerships, collaboration with industry and accreditations by professional bodies provide the opportunity to develop your skills and knowledge in real-world settings.
Invest in you with a postgraduate qualification at the University of Derby to further your prospects and transform your future.
Looking for a postgraduate course?
Explore the wide range of subjects we offer.
Find out about costs and funding options as well as the scholarships, bursaries and alumni discounts available to eligible students.
Advice and guidance on applying for your postgraduate taught or research degree.
Next Open Event: Wednesday 10 September 2025, 4pm - 7pm
You can choose to study full-time or part-time on-campus for many courses.
Both our online and on-campus courses are developed in partnership with professional bodies and employers, and we have more professionally accredited courses than any other online provider in the UK.
At the University of Derby, everything we do is driven by delivering excellence and opportunities for our students, staff and region.
Innovation and research is critical to this.
It enables us to continuously advance knowledge, improve our learning and teaching, contribute to our research-informed curriculum, prepare our learners for the future, and help organisations in the region innovate and thrive.
View Innovation and Research at the Univesity of Derby video transcript
Need to know more about where you might live?
Want to learn more about our research impact?
Or do you have a burning question for us?
Find out more here.
Explore your options for postgraduate accommodation.
Learn how our research is influencing the future, not just for our students and region, but at a national and international level.
Your most frequently asked questions about postgraduate study, all in one handy place.
Discover how our postgraduate students are using their passion, skills and determination to make a difference.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online:
We have been delivering online programmes for over two decades and have become a leading UK University for online education.
With a wide range of part-time courses specially designed for online study, we can help you to achieve more and be more, in your professional and personal life.
Join us on our next Online Learning webinar
Discover a flexible and career-focused way to learn online with the University of Derby.
Explore our online courses , designed to give you the chance to gain qualifications that fit around your life.
Whether you're looking to upskill, change career, or unlock new opportunities, your journey starts here.
Our online students are thriving, gaining fresh knowledge, building confidence, and achieving real progress in their careers, all while balancing work and family life.
Apply today to start this September and take the next step toward your goals.
Most courses are open for applications until 19 September 2025.
View the full range of subject areas that you can study online - from Accountancy to Psychology.
See our list of upcoming webinars.
Some give you an overview of online learning while others delve deeper into a specific course.
Find out about the benefits of studying online and what you can expect.
We offer a growing range of short courses to further your professional development, including CPD-accredited courses and free massive open online courses (MOOCs) to credit bearing module courses.
See our application deadlines and find out how to apply.
Find out how much online courses cost and what help there is to pay for them.
Find out more about the University of Derby Online Learning, who we are, what we do and our track record.
See answers to the questions we get asked the most.
Meet some of our students and graduates, as they share stories of their journey throughout their studies, their goals and motivations and what impact the course is making on their lives.
Our research is influencing the future, not just for our students and region, but at a national and international level.
We are at the forefront of discoveries.
Our online courses are created and taught by experts.
The content is engaging and interactive, and meets high academic and professional standards.
We offer everything from standalone modules which are available as short credit bearing courses, and non-credit bearing courses for CPD (continuing professional development) to apprenticeships and full undergraduate and postgraduate online degrees.
We help both individuals and employers and are proud to be inclusive and diverse.
As long as you have the ambition, desire and potential to succeed, you will be welcome here.
Our online courses have to meet the same strict academic standards as all UK university courses.
They are just as high quality and are worth the same.
If you would like to attend a graduation ceremony at the end of your course, you can do!
It will be held in England and it's a truly special day - a chance to celebrate your achievement.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd:
Our cutting-edge short courses and CPD courses could be the key.
Browse A-Z short courses
This is a university that’s relevant today and focused on tomorrow.
A university that never stands still and is never complacent – just like you.
We care about your continuing professional development (CPD) so as well as part-time degrees, we run innovative and enlightening short courses – both on-campus and online.
We offer CPD modules and short courses on the most cutting-edge issues, including new legislation – for instance IFRS 16 Leases (an International Financial Reporting Standard) – as well as some of the pressing issues of our time, such as Child and Adolescent Mental Health.
Browse our up-to-date short courses that range from designing and making to updating your knowledge on social media photography.
Professional qualifications for accountants, those working in human resources or purchasing and supply.
Short courses for educators.
Covering key themes such as teacher inquiry, attachment theory, primary mathematics and autism.
Discover our range of Engineering courses accredited by the Institute of Acoustics.
Learn with us and take advantage of our academic team who have excellent research and teaching credentials, as well as experience of working in applied settings.
CPD modules for nurses, occupational therapists, hand therapists, radiographers, psychotherapists, psychologists, and complementary therapy professionals.
Expand your subject knowledge and learn the practical skills you need to stand out in the food and drink industry.
Expand your knowledge and understanding of law to keep up-to-date with best practice and develop in your career.
Enhance your sporting performance with our up-to-date short courses and assessments from industry experts.
We offer a wide range of innovative and enlightening short courses - both on-campus and online.
Browse our full offer of short courses in our A-Z listing.
Online short university credit bearing courses that you can use to support your CPD requirements or to upskill.
Our free online MOOCs (massive open online courses) make higher education accessible for everyone and allow you to experience how online learning works.
We offer a growing range of online short courses to help you in your personal development.
CPD accredited courses, part funded by the European Social Fund, supporting SME businesses to respond to current business challenges and future opportunities.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees:
Undertaking a research degree such as an MPhil, PhD, or Professional Doctorate is an intellectual challenge like no other.
It’s an opportunity to immerse yourself in the subject you are passionate about, set your own work goals, and make an important contribution to your field.
Find out how we support our researchers
For a PhD (Doctor of Philosophy) you will undertake independent research that makes a substantial original contribution to knowledge in your chosen field.
A PhD usually takes three years full-time and up to six years part-time for students to complete their research and submit their thesis for examination, and you will be assigned at least two academic supervisors who will support you.
If you already have a body of research, you may be able to take a shorter route: a ‘ PhD by Published Works’ .
An MPhil/PhD by Published Works is a shorter, alternative route for those that already have a published body of work, which could include creative works.
It usually takes one year full-time or two years part-time to submit the critical appraisal for examination.
This route is designed to provide doctoral recognition for your previous research achievements.
You need to provide a critical appraisal of these works, similar to the thesis requirements for a traditional MPhil/PhD.
The MPhil (Master of Philosophy) is a postgraduate research masters, which is essentially a smaller-scale PhD.
It can be part of a PhD or a step toward one, but you can also study it as a standalone qualification.
It usually takes a maximum of two years full-time or three years part-time for students to complete their research and submit their thesis for examination.
If your project isn’t extensive enough for a PhD, or you want a shorter qualification, an MPhil is a good option.
Find out how MPhils/PhDs work
Our studentships provide funding and financial support for exceptional students looking to study a PhD at the University of Derby.
Dependent on the individual studentship, successful applicants may be...
Our self-funded PhDs give you the chance to work with our established research academics in an area we have identified as a priority for research.
If you are applying for either a funded (studentship) or self-funded MPhil/PhD, follow our guidance on how to write a research proposal .
Our professional doctorates are more structured, work-based programmes of study that include traditional learning and teaching through face-to-face (or online) seminars and tutorials.
You will focus on developing an independent research thesis that should make a unique contribution to your profession.
They can take between four to eight years of part-time study to complete.
Aimed at highly capable and motivated education professionals, our part-time doctoral programme will put you at the forefront of your area of practice and transform your career development prospects.
Achieving a Doctorate in Health and Social Care Practice will demonstrate your ability as an expert in your field.
You’ll grow as an authority and thought leader, leading academic discussion and...
Aimed at high-achieving professionals, our part-time Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA) provides an exciting practice-based route to a research degree.
Our exciting new Doctorate in Professional Practice (Sport and Exercise) focuses on supporting practitioners in undertaking applied research whilst continuing to practice.
It has been specifically des...
At the University of Derby there are five phases leading to the creation of your thesis and award of your PhD.
We will support you through each phase to help you recognise your potential and achieve y...
We are looking for ambitious and talented students to join our dedicated research community where we will support you on your own research journey through to graduation.
These pages give you all the i...
Discover your eligibility to transfer as a research student to the University of Derby and learn more about the process and next steps.
Find out what the tuition fees are for PhDs and MPhils at Derby, as well as what sources of funding there are to help pay for them.
We have invested £200 million in the last ten years to ensure that we have some of the best facilities in the UK.
Our industry-standard facilities include a fantastic new sports centre, forensic house...
Find answers for questions including who to contact, enrolment dates, and how and when to pay fees.
Callum is part of a small team utilising a groundbreaking method that could play a crucial role in safeguarding the critically-endangered West African chimpanzee from escalating threats and the risk of extinction.
Find out about some of our postgraduate research students and the projects they are working on.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/part-time:
Many of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses can be studied part-time, providing you with the opportunity to broaden your skills and knowledge in a way that works for you.
The flexibility of part-time study allows you to fit your degree into your current lifestyle, enabling you to balance your degree with your existing commitments.
You may also have the option to study your chosen subject online .
The modern workplace is competitive so stand out from the crowd and gain a professional qualification whilst working.
Improve your career prospects or pursue a passion and develop skills in a new area to open up new opportunities.
Our expert teaching team will challenge your thinking, encourage you to develop new perspectives and push you to achieve your goals.
You'll also benefit from the high academic standards, quest for knowledge and expanding horizons created by our ambitious approach to research.
With a focus on advancing your skills, we'll prepare you to take the next step in your career.
Part-time fees are charged by module and, if you’re paying for yourself, we make it easier for you by automatically spreading the cost of your course over equal payments across the academic year.
Government loans to cover tuition fees are available for eligible undergraduate and postgraduate part-time students, whether you are studying on campus or online.
As a part-time student, you can currently apply for a tuition fee loan if you are a UK national or have 'settled status' and normally live in England.
You can apply for a tuition fee loan as long as you will complete at least 25% of the credits needed for a full-time course, whether you are studying on campus or online.
This percentage is known as course intensity and, if you’re not sure what your course intensity is, check with your course leader ( listed on the course page ).
If you are studying on campus, you can also apply for a loan for living costs.
The amount you get depends on your household income, where you live while studying and your course intensity.
Find out more about loans for part-time study
If you normally live in England and are under 60 when you start your course, you may be eligible for a Postgraduate Master’s Loan to study at masters level.
This loan is available whether you are studying full-time, part-time or online.
You can use this loan to pay for your tuition fees or living costs while you are studying a taught or research-based postgraduate course at masters level, eg MA, MSc, MBA, LLM, MRes or MPhil.
You have to meet certain eligibility criteria.
Check the Postgraduate Master's Loan information on the gov.uk website.
If you are under 60 when you start your course, you may be able eligible for a Doctoral Loan to study a doctoral level course, eg PhD and EdD.
This loan is available whether you are studying full-time or part-time.
You can use this loan to pay for your tuition fees or living costs.
Check the Postgraduate Doctoral Loan information on the gov.uk website .
We are recognised for the quality of our teaching.
At Derby, you’ll meet passionate and committed lecturers who harness the very latest thinking, from their professional lives and ground-breaking rese...
Our focus on employability, state-of-the-art facilities, expert teaching and vibrant city are just some of the benefits of choosing to study at the University of Derby.
Going to university is a real investment in your future.
Here’s our detailed guide to what studying at the University of Derby costs and the help that’s available to pay for it.
Explore your options for funding your postgraduate study at Derby.
Find out about all of the support available to our students.
We offer a range of services that can help you during your application and once you get here.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/training-development/apprenticeships:
Our apprenticeships combine on-the-job training with academic learning to produce capable and competent employees.
Whether you're an employer looking to upskill your workforce and drive business growth and innovation, or you're an employee interested in gaining a recognised qualification and specialist skills to support your career progression, our apprenticeship programmes will prepare you for a successful future.
At the University of Derby, we're passionate about providing real world learning opportunities and offer a wide range of apprenticeships in various subjects from Level 2 - 7, in partnership with Buxton and Leek College.
We combine academic excellence with practical training and work with leading businesses including Rolls Royce, the NHS and the Institute of Quarrying.
Our apprentices will not only gain a recognised qualification, but the knowledge and experience to improve business services and make a positive impact in our region.
Get paid to train for a qualification with our apprenticeship programmes.
Whether you’re embarking on a new career or want to progress in your existing role, you’ll divide your time between on-the-job training and academic study.
Get paid to train with our apprenticeships Get paid to train with our apprenticeships
Apprenticeships are a great way of embedding new skills and growing talent within your workplace.
They combine practical on-the-job training with academic learning that's relevant to your apprentice's specific role.
Upskill your workforce with an apprenticeship Upskill your workforce with an apprenticeship
View What you need to know about apprenticeships with Andy Dowling video transcript
Last chance to access funded leadership training!
Don’t miss your chance to futureproof your organisation with our Senior Leadership Apprenticeship.
View National Apprenticeship Week 2025: Our biggest event yet video transcript
The Nuclear Skills Academy has the funding to provide 200 apprentices each year for at least the next ten years.
In partnership with Rolls-Royce, our courses deliver a future-focused nuclear education.
"The ODP Degree Apprenticeship has provided us with a fantastic opportunity to be able to support and develop our current staff.Our Bands 2 to 4 staff now have a career development pathway which enables them to both complete a degree funded through the apprenticeship levy and also to gain Band 5 Registered Professional status as an ODP which opens up many more career opportunities for their future".
— Leanne Stevens, Chesterfield Royal Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Operating Theatre Education Lead
"The courses educate candidates in a range of competencies and prepare them for the next step in management progression" — Representative from Aggregate Industries Europe

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities:
We are continually investing in your campus to help you get the most from your studies.
Industry-standard classroom facilities ensure you're learning the latest techniques and skills, while social, sports and study areas provide everything you'll need for your daily student life.
Whether you are studying in Derby or Chesterfield you will have access to excellent facilities.
Kedleston Road in Derby is home to our fantastic Sports Centre , four-storey library , and spacious study areas.
You'll also find plenty of places to eat and socialise with your friends, including Starbucks, Subway, our Union of Students' café and bar, and much more.
Our Derby Campus is home to the majority of our courses and it is made up of four sites.
Our Derby Campus Our Derby Campus
The University of Derby at Chesterfield offers high-tech teaching facilities and an established reputation for educating nurses, combine to provide you with the best possible start to your career in health.
Our Chesterfield Campus Our Chesterfield Campus
Transform your ideas into reality in our state-of-the-art facilities.
Discover how our spaces can elevate your projects.
Learn more about our facilities Learn more about our facilities
Gain practical, hands-on experience in our real world learning facilities.
You will develop new skills and knowledge in your subject, supported by our expert teaching team.
This will help you to prepare for the world of work and graduate with the combination of practical skills and knowledge expected in your industry.
Our students have a rare and exceptional learning experience at Derby Theatre.
We are one of the only universities in the country to own and run a professional producing and receiving theatre.
The Digital Design Hub is based at Markeaton Street and allows students to get hands on experience of using industry standard equipment.
Our Chandos Pole Street building contains new specialist facilities for Fashion and Textiles.
These include light and airy studio spaces as well industry-standard equipment and design facilities.
A student-led workshop where students can turn their ideas into prototypes using a range of equipment
Our Markeaton Street site has a dedicated film and television studio space for teaching and student projects - and experienced technicians who provide support.
Britannia Mill Studios are well equipped for students from Art and Design, Fashion and Therapeutic Arts courses.
The Media Loan Hub is our equipment centre and you can use it to book out cameras, lighting and sound equipment.
The music studios at our Markeaton Street site include sound technology labs, surround-sound testing rooms and electronic labs.
The Institute of Education has a Forest School Practitioner who offers Forest School sessions across all programmes of Education.
The Photography lab at Markeaton Street has outstanding facilities that are the envy of many experienced professional photographers.
Our Kedleston Road dance studio is housed within the Kirtley Building and comes with floor to ceiling mirrors and also a sprung floor.
Our students can gain hands-on experience using the same information and technology relied on by financial professionals all over the world, in our Financial Markets Lab.
Our Crown courtroom is now located at One Friar Gate Square, a modern and iconic building which houses state-of-the-art facilities including Crown Court, labs and interview rooms.
Our law, criminology, policing, social and political science students are based here and its specialist facilities include a Crown Court, criminology lab and interview rooms.
Designed to replicate the facilities that you would find in a modern-day police station, our Custody Suite features a booking-in desk, a cell and interview rooms.
The Community Justice Hub in Derby city centre allows students from our School of Law and Social Sciences to work collaboratively with the police and council to tackle crime across the city.
The Student Legal Advice Centre is run by our LLB (Hons) students and provides members of the public with free legal advice on a wide range of areas of law.
Our dedicated Architecture studio is a creative space used for lectures and seminars, one-to-one sessions, group work and presentations to employers.
Students on our Entertainment Engineering courses get to practise their developing skills using industry-standard equipment.
All labs contain dual-screen, multiprocessor computers equipped with a variety of industry-standard commercial and open source software, and there are dedicated technicians to provide support.
We have specialist electronics laboratories dedicated to the Electrical and Electronic Engineering degrees taught at our Markeaton Street site in Derby.
The engineering workshops at Markeaton Street include a motorsport workshop, mechanical and manufacturing engineering workshop, wood workshop, metal workshop and crafts workshop.
Our 4,200m² extension provides additional computer studios and specialist facilities for engineering, technology and computing students.
Opening in 2025, our state-of-the-art Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab will transform learning and research for students, staff, and researchers.
Our Aquatic Research Facility offers our students a unique opportunity to participate in high level research and work with some of the world leaders in the field of aquarium and zoo research.
Our state of the art Crime Scene House is dedicated to supporting your studies, offering a stimulating learning environment for you to explore the dynamic world of Forensic Science.
Our suite of forensic facilities, situated at the top of the North Tower, house specialist equipment allowing you to perform a range of molecular techniques from chromatography to heavy metal analysis...
Our glass house is used for keeping plants from a diverse range of habitats from deserts to tropics.
Our insectary houses many different species of insects for you to examine and learn about.
Our scanning electron microscope (SEM) can magnify objects up to 20-30,000 times and can play a key role in developments in technology, industry and research.
Housed within the Kirtley Building are our specialist laboratories, with facilities to undertake physiological and biomechanical assessment.
Students on Strength and Conditioning modules have access to this space at the Sports Centre as part of their studies.
The Human Performance Unit has been established to provide expert sport science services to sports clubs and individual athletes from beginners to elite performers.
Our performance analysis suite is fully equipped with 20 dual screen iMac computers.
Students will use this facility within teaching and practical sessions.
Providing realistic medical training, our Clinical Skills Suite has a number of high quality artificial patients from individual limbs to technically advanced simulation dolls.
The Fujifilm Advanced Visionary X-ray Suite, the first of its kind to be installed in a university in the UK.
The Image Reporting Suite enables our pre-registration students to gain valuable image interpretation skills.
The development of reporting radiographers is an initiative that ultimately mean...
Our students can gain experience using our Immersive Interactive Simulation Suite which combines innovative technology, virtual reality, interactive 3D graphics and audio content to provide you with a...
The hospital ward is complete with teaching facilities, a nurses station and simulated learning patients to provide a lifelike taste of working in a modern hospital.
These suites combine observation rooms equipped with two-way mirrors and DVD recording equipment.
The suite includes state-of the-art Medaphor ScanTrainer Ultrasound simulators, enabling student sonographers to gain vital experience in scanning prior to entering into the clinical environment.
Our students can gain experience in a clinical setting in our mock labour room which can be set up in our ward area.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/fees-finance:
We understand that going to university is a big investment and for some students, cost can be a concern.
It's important to remember that in most circumstances, your fees don't need to be paid upfront and there are lots of financial support options available.
We have a number of funding opportunities available to students.
Recent graduates of the University of Derby can receive up to 25% discount on our postgraduate study fees.
Find out more about scholarships, bursaries and discounts available to international students and how to apply.
Information for international students on paying their fees, including deposits, instalments and discounts.
We offer a number of ways to reduce your costs with our discounts or spread them out with one of our payment plans so they are more manageable.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support:
Life as a student is exciting and fun, but it can also feel daunting at times.
We offer a range of services to support you during your application and when you start studying with us.
Whether you have questions about your course, concerns about your wellbeing, or just need some advice or reassurance, our friendly expert teams are here to help.
We’re serious about getting you started in your career, whether you’ve already decided what you want to do or need to find inspiration.
Our Careers and Employment Service also has plenty of expertise
The Derby English Language Centre (DELC) offers support to students who are struggling with the English language.
Support is available both as pre-sessional courses and during your degree.
During your first weeks there are lots of activities to help you settle in to your studies and to life as a student at Derby.
We have a whole host of services that support you at all levels of study and in every aspect of your student life, providing a central point of contact that can link you with the right team.
The Student Services team can provide information and guidance to help you look after yourself during your time at University.
We can help with academic support plans, applying for Disabled Student Allowance, mental health support, advice around money and much more.
The University of Derby’s single comprehensive source of information and reflects our obligations under the Office for Students’ (OfS) regulatory condition E6.
As a University, we support efforts in the United Kingdom to facilitate student transfer between higher education providers where this proves necessary or desirable.
We have a number of arrangements t...
You can get independent advice and guidance from the Union of Students.
As well as our Student Support at the University, we’ve pulled together resources and contacts to support your wellbeing and welfare no matter when you need it and at any time of day
Whether you have religious questions or just need to talk things through, our team of chaplains and faith consultants are on hand at the Multi-Faith Centre.
Student Space is a new nationwide initiative to help with a range of issues you may face during the coronavirus pandemic.
Student Services provides information and guidance to help you look after your wellbeing during your time at University.
Tips, tools and resources to help get you through exams and revision
Alice explores the teams in place around the University that help our students feel welcome, supported, and on track to do their best.
Sarah Richardson shares the broad support offered by Student Services, and Natalie Clarson introduces the first point of contact (the College Student Centres mentioned in this video are now incorporated into the StudentHub@Derby.
The support offered hasn't changed, just the name and the place where you find it!
View What support services are available?

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/study-abroad:
Give yourself a head start in today’s global jobs market and make unforgettable memories with our global opportunities.
We offer various opportunities for you to spend time in another country through our Global Opportunities, including:
Whatever you opt for, you will gain valuable life skills and international experience, helping you develop as an individual personally, professionally and academically.
If you decide to study or work abroad, you may be able to get some funding from the Turing Scheme .
The Turing Scheme is the UK government’s avenue to provide funding for international opportunities in education and training across the world.
Computer Science student Robert headed to Thailand for a month where he expanded his knowledge, made new connections, and had an unforgettable experience.
I just wanted to say how grateful I am for the opportunity.
It was an invaluable experience that opened my eyes to what's out there, and it reassured me about my abilities and knowledge.
Nursing student Natalia volunteered for placement during her second year helping migrants in Mexico.
Mari Olan successfully applied for work experience at Malta Film Studios, one of the largest production facilities in the world.
She worked as a 2nd Assistant Director, and towards her dive license at weekends!
University of Derby student Sophie Garbett knew that she wanted to experience studying abroad as soon as she heard about it in her first few weeks on campus.
If you’d like to find out more about our Global Opportunities email goplaces@derby.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/employability:
Wherever you are in your career path, you’ll find support and guidance throughout your time with us.
Work experience, placements, applications and job search advice, workshops and events - there’s plenty of help at hand.
We’re here to help prepare you for life after university.
We’ll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond.
And we have great links to industry.
This means you’ll have opportunities to apply your learning.
You’ll find work experience that’s directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success.
We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
A Placement Year is a valuable opportunity to gain real-world work experience by spending a year working for an employer as part of your degree.
They typically last a full academic year and are availa...
We host Career Fairs throughout the year for students and recent graduates.
Give yourself a head start in today’s global jobs market and make unforgettable memories with our Global Opportunities.
We offer various opportunities for you to spend time in another country th...
The SEA helps current students and recent graduates find paid, temporary jobs both at the University of Derby and with local employers.
How could our students and graduates help you?
Our focus on applied learning means our students and graduates are experienced at using their knowledge to solve real business issues.
We are here to help you every step of the way.
Let our Careers and Employment team tell you what you've got to look forward to as a University of Derby student.
View Careers and Employment Service video transcript
Our Career Coaches and Advisors are available for one-to-one appointments where you can discuss potential career ideas, what you are suited to and what you are passionate about, to begin to give your career journey some focus.
We run Careers Fairs throughout the year which are your chance to talk with employers about their industry and your future employment potential - including work experience opportunities.
And our support continues after you graduate - for three more years.
Our Careers and Employment Service will continue to support and guide you with one-to-one appointments with employment advisers, career planning, CV tailoring and preparing for interviews as part of our three-year promise .
It's one of the exclusive alumni benefits to help you in your career.
We are an applied university.
This means we focus on helping you gain the skills you’ll need after you graduate.
And we use our strong industry links to help you find the best possible work experience and placements .
These are an important part of your education, whether you are a fine artist, a fashion designer, a computer animator or an engineer.
You get to turn your learning into practice.
And our Careers and Employment Service will support you on your journey towards your future career.
No matter what course you’ve chosen or what your previous experience is, we will provide tailored support, with access to services and programmes to help you reach your career goal.
Chloe Twigg was able to build up her work experience.
She started small to help get her foot in the door before taking up a placement year with clothing firm BCI.
She's now a designer at Motodirect.
We work closely with programme teams to make sure career support is part of your learning from the start.
That means you'll build the right skills for your subject area and get help exploring different career options as you go.
When you're ready to take the next step, we’ll guide you through how to make strong job applications - with advice tailored to your subject.
We regularly review this support with your programme leaders to keep it relevant and useful.
You benefit from our partnerships with businesses, organisations and other educational institutions.
We share our knowledge and our talent - giving you opportunities to develop your network and your career.
This comes under the umbrella of knowledge exchange (KE) and how well we do this is rated by the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF).
In the latest data published by KEF in 2021, we are in the top 10% of universities for working with businesses.
Our links with businesses provide opportunities for your internships and placements.
The Careers and Employment Service is managed and operated by the University of Derby and is not part of any combined careers service.
We are accredited to the matrix Standard, the Department for Education's measure of high-quality information, advice and guidance.
This accreditation reflects our commitment to your longer term career and life ambitions, rather than just finding you a job.
Advice and support go beyond job hunting to include volunteering and enterprise, and continue after you have graduated.
Generation Next is a professional network for entrepreneurs and employees aged 18 to 35 across the East Midlands.
It’s run by East Midlands Chamber and the University of Derby has been a key partner since 2021.
We can help you plan and choose your career, find jobs and opportunities, and help with applications, CVs, interviews and assessments.
Login to CareerHub to explore all the resources.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/clearing:
Get in touch with our Clearing team to discuss your options and check course availability.
Fill out a quick application form to formally express your interest in your chosen course.
Receive your offer and confirm your place to start your journey with us.
Clearing is a fantastic opportunity for all students.
Whether you are still considering your next steps, changed your mind about where or what to study or waiting to see how your exams go, you can get in touch with us now to discuss your options.
Call us today on 01332 592025 and you could receive a provisional offer to study at the University of Derby this September.
We’ll also chat to you about your career goals and guide you through your next steps.
Phone lines are open all week
* Indicates a required field
Find tips for applying through Clearing and accepting your offer.
Find out more Find out more
Got a question about Clearing?
Our Frequently Asked Questions page may help.
Explore FAQs Explore FAQs
We run regular campus tours where you’ll explore our teaching facilities, social spaces and accommodation with a current student ambassador, or we can arrange personal visits so you can see everything that’s on offer at a time that suits you.
Book your campus tour Book your campus tour
Can’t make it to our campuses in person?
Start your virtual tour Start your virtual tour
If you accept a place through Clearing, you can access our exclusive offer of £500 off selected premium standard rooms.
Planned paths might change, but our students seize every opportunity.
Hear about some of their experiences below.
A-level results day didn't go exactly as Jack Hanson had planned.
Then he found his way to Derby through Clearing and he hasn't looked back since.
When Omoye last-minute changed her mind on where and what she wanted to study, Clearing was able to calm her nerves and help her secure the right place.
Amelia Shackleton always had a keen interest in motorsport engineering.
She didn’t believe that she would get the grades needed at A-Level to follow her dreams so when she did better than expect...
After initially following her head, Hannah's heart inevitably won over and she pursued her passion in Motorsport Engineering.
Lilly’s university journey didn’t begin as planned, but Clearing gave her a second chance.
At Derby, she found everything she was looking for.
Emily’s path to University of Derby wasn’t the most traditional – she was already in her first year at another university when she was able to use Clearing to join University of Derby
Get tips for your Clearing application from our Head of Admissions Helen Mercado.
We also have a guide to nailing your Clearing phone call .
View Clearing admissions tips video transcript
Are you a parent or guardian of someone applying to university through Clearing?
Browse our advice and information for how you can support them.
Browse the subject areas and courses available at the University of Derby.
Find out everything you need to know about the University by exploring our hub designed for students who are looking to start in September.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/open-days/undergraduate:
There’s no better way to find out whether Derby is right for you than by joining us on campus for our next Open Day.
Experience the buzz of student life at a TEF Gold university and find where you belong.
Next Open Day: Saturday 4 October, 9:30am - 3:00pm
Nothing beats exploring a new university destination and our Open Day is jam-packed with opportunities to tour our facilities, chat with current students and soak up the excitement on campus.
But that’s not all...
See all upcoming Open Days
Complete the form to book your place at one of our upcoming events:
If you already have your grades, or predicted grades, and they meet our entry requirements, our Admissions team may be able to give you an offer in principle at our Open Day.
This means that we’ll chat to you about your hopes and dreams for the future and give you advice on how to submit an awesome personal statement in order to secure a conditional offer to study with us.
Our experts will also talk you through the UCAS application process and answer any question you may have.
There’s so much to see and do at an Open Day, and we want to help you plan your day so that you get the most out of your visit.
Take everything at your own pace and enjoy exploring all that Derby has to offer.
Open Days at Derby really give you a sense of the excellence and expertise within each subject area and how much the University genuinely cares.
Staff and students truly recognise the importance of answering questions from family, friends and loved ones who are supporting their family members in making a huge decision.
Saturday 4 October 2025, 9:30am – 3:00pm
Saturday 8 November 2025, 9:30am – 3:00pm
Sunday 7 December 2025, 9:30am – 3:00pm
Sunday 22 February 2026 (Experience Day), 9:30am – 3:00pm
Saturday 28 March 2026 (Experience Day), 9:30am – 3:00pm
Bookings open around two months before each Open Day.
Close this card to return to the booking form and register for the next available date.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/open-days/postgraduate:
There’s no better way to find out whether Derby is right for you than by joining us on campus for our next Open Event.
Our teaching staff can offer you the perfect combination of academic excellence and industry experience.
Across our postgraduate courses, you will find lecturers who still practise in their chosen field, so you can be sure that you are receiving teaching that is up to date and relevant to today’s job market.
Find out more at one of our Postgraduate Open Events.
Discover more about studying a postgraduate course on-campus or online at one of our upcoming Open Events:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation:
There's a wide choice of student accommodation in Derby so whatever you are looking for, you're sure to find something that suits your needs.
Our University accommodation, run by the Student Living team is a real home from home, providing excellent customer service from a landlord you can trust.
The ethos at University residences in Derby is totally focused on the wellbeing and needs of students.
Our professional team are highly skilled and experienced in dealing with a broad range of issues which residents may face and are on hand to provide support and guidance.
The health and happiness of our students is paramount.
We believe that students need a comfortable, safe and happy living environment so they can study effectively and maximise their opportunities at University.
Our residences, our award-winning service and our caring, friendly and professional staff provide a firm foundation for students to thrive and succeed.
In addition, the Residence Life Programme includes a range of free and subsidised activities and events exclusively for our residents, enabling students to meet and socialise with their peers across the whole halls community.
Apply for September 2025
Explore the benefits of living in halls
We want everyone in halls to have the best possible experience and so, we were delighted to be named Best University Housing and Best Environmental Management (UK and Ireland) in the 2024 Global Student Living Awards.
These awards are extra special to us as the results are 100% based on direct feedback from home and international students – a true testament to our fantastic Student Living team who is always on hand to help.
Halls are the ideal place for you to live during your time at University and most first-year students live in halls.
Our halls are just a short walk from our campuses and are a great place to make friends and settle into University life.
They offer you safe, good-value accommodation in convenient locations and you can live in halls throughout your studies if you want to.
Our bespoke postgraduate accommodation is situated in a quiet cul-de-sac just minutes away from the main University site.
It's the ideal setting for you to focus on your studies in a comfortable and convenient environment.
Find out more about accommodation for Postgraduate students
Every year, our halls community welcomes students from all corners of the globe with a free bed, kitchen and arrival pack.
Our staff are friendly and helpful and will make it their mission to help you settle into your new surroundings.
Our halls have 24-hour security and a 24-hour contact number in case you need it.
Find out more about accommodation for International students
Get an overview of what halls are like.
Alice gets a tour of halls, meets a Hall Manager and chats to residents about their halls experience.
View What are halls like?
Join Tamzin on a tour around Agard Court, one of our halls of residence, where you can find out more about the location of our halls and the services on offer, as well as visiting the living spaces, social areas and laundry rooms.
View Virtual Open Day: Agard Court tour video transcript
We can offer you a great choice of halls of residence.
Room types in halls of residence at the University of Derby.
Find out about what accommodation options are available to you, what contracts we offer and what our halls prices are.
Everything from inter-hall sports tournaments to cooking and karaoke.
Find out more and get involved.
The University's accredited landlord scheme gives reassurance to students that a landlord and his/her property has met the University's agreed minimum standard for private rented accommodation.
Visit our database of properties with accredited landlords
Living in halls gives you the full University experience, saves you the inconvenience of commuting and helps you to branch out and be independent

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside:
From great eats and epic nights out at student favourites like Popworld and Molly Malone’s, to green spaces and secret beer gardens - Derby’s got the best of everything.
Bustler Market for bao, burgers and jerk chicken.
BEAR for brunch.
The Wonky Table and Vegan Junk for veggie and vegan eats.
Rikshaw for modern Indian street food.
Buka Xp for Nigerian jollof and stews.
Factory Food Court and Normanton Road for halal, cheap eats and global flavours.
Student rec: BOA for bottomless wings Wednesdays
The Hairy Dog for indie and alternative gigs.
Popworld for throwback anthems.
Molly Malone’s for live music and weekend buzz.
Vaillant Live for big-name acts.
Electric Daisy hosts outdoor raves.
Discotech takes over jails and warehouses.
RnB Mania packs out The Chocolate Factory and MooMoo’s for chart, R&B and Hip-Hop.
Student rec: Iron Ram for cheap game nights and deals
Derbion for 200+ shops, crazy golf, food court and bowling.
Market Hall for indie stalls and street food.
Threadz and Mardy Ducks for retro finds.
The Oddities Store for sustainable fashion.
Derby Arena and Tansley car boots for weekend bargains.
ODEON Luxe for full-recline seats and off-peak Saver tickets.
Student rec: Fox Vintage Wholesale - a kilo of gems for £15
The Climbing Unit and Alter Rock for indoor climbs, Moorways for swimming and UoD Sports Centre for a cheap, on-campus gym and facilities.
Union-run sports clubs, including Rugby, Netball and social football for a casual kickabout.
Pride Park Stadium to watch Derby FC at home.
Derby Active gyms at Derby Arena and Springwood .
And the famous Peak District for weekend hikes, cycling and climbing.
Student rec: We Are Padel - 50% off for students
Final Year BA (Hons) Journalism student, Johnathan Cowden, provides his advice on the best things to do in Derby.
From finding the right people to earning in spare time, Psychology student Cyrus Sheridan describes five features of university life that have made Derby the right place to study.
Living costs are a standard part of life, but becoming a student might be your first experience of managing them.
Second year Accounting and Finance student Kira shares her best advice on where you ca...

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/union-of-students/clubs-and-societies:
Joining a club or society is a great way to make friends, develop yourself or try something new.
Have you always wanted to try Climbing, Archery or Ballroom and Latin Dance?
Perhaps you’re a rising star in Football, Badminton or Volleyball.
Maybe you want to meet other LGBTQIA+ or international students.
Whatever you’re passionate about, you’ll find it here.
There are over 70 sports clubs and societies on offer at our University – all run by students and supported by the Union of Students .
Many of them will be looking for new members during the Freshers’ Fair in September, so look out for their stalls.
Think of a sport and there’s probably a club for it here.
From individual sports like archery, boxing, swimming, and even powerlifting to team sports like football, rugby union, cricket, netball, table tennis, American football, dodgeball and cheerleading.
See the full list of sports clubs .
Around 19 sports clubs enter teams into the BUCS league (British Universities and Colleges Sport league) so you can compete against other institutions.
We’re currently at our highest ever BUCS position!
You can also find out more about sport at the university , including facilities, scholarships and performance development programmes.
By joining a society, you can meet people with similar interests, outlooks, cultures or backgrounds.
Societies can be related to:
Societies usually organise regular activities and events for their members so they can be a safe and affordable way to get out and have fun.
They are always in need of more committee members and organisers too, so they offer opportunities to do something worthwhile and boost your CV.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport:
Our aim is to enable our students, staff, and communities to enjoy sport and be active, whatever their level of fitness or ability, and provide opportunities for everyone.
If you have ambitions to represent Team Derby while studying here, there are over 30 student sports teams entered in the national BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) competition programme.
There are also opportunities to enter as individuals into BUCS championships throughout the year.
If you want to enjoy more relaxed sport and fitness activities, we offer a range of gym, fitness and social sport opportunities through our Sports Centre membership and 'UoD Active' programme.
From sprints to the saddle, how a passion for sport, a bold move to Derby, and the right support helped Rhianna shift gears into elite track cycling.
Hear how our students are gaining real-world experience and building their leadership skills and confidence through football officiating opportunities.
During his time studying our MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science course, Joseph Dick carried out an Internship in a field of interest in sports psychology.
Pursuing his interest in Strength and Conditioning, and Nutrition, Rohan Sood, MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science student is carrying out an internship in t...
Tiana Chapman, MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science student, has undertaken a Performance Analysis internship to help develop essential skills to build a stro...
A student-athlete, Kiara Henry, talks about her success at Derby University in both her law degree and exceptional performance as a badminton scholar.
As a student-athlete, Lyddia Chea Yi had to learn how to balance time so that she could achieve both academically and in her sport.
Ronald studied BSc (Hons) Civil Engineering with Built Infrastructure and made a significant contribution to basketball in Derby and beyond.
Cycling scholar Dan Cooper explores how he balanced elite sport and study with support from the University’s sports scholarship.
We have a range of opportunities that can support you to be active, starting with ' Just Play ', a programme of weekly social sports led by Sports Activator and all equipment provided.
In your first year of study, students will also be part of a ' Halls Sport ' programme of competition that includes semi-competitive leagues, cups, or trophies in a range of sports such as:
If you want to play social but competitive football, our Team Derby Football League offers weekly officiated matches during term.
You can also get involved in our Get Active Events throughout the year.
We are committed to enhancing the performance and success of our student teams, and run a sector-leading Performance Sport programme for Badminton, Men's Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Swimming and Cycling.
Our Sports Scholarship programme aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential while achieving academic success.
We provide tailored athlete-support packages delivered by an experienced multi-disciplinary Performance team that includes a Strength and Conditioning Coach, Physiotherapist, Psychology Coach, Performance Sport Manager, elite Coaches and bespoke access to the Human Performance Unit.
The Human Performance Unit is a dedicated space focused on providing sport science and coach development services to coaches, individuals and teams wanting to enhance their performance.
We are an accredited Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme university and join a community of institutions providing student-athletes with dual career opportunities.
We remain committed to Clean Sport in the UK and publish our Clean Sport commitment.
Our official Team Derby kit supplier is industry specialist Kukri Sports .
You can buy your University of Derby training kit and leisurewear direct from our Kukri online store .
We run a sector-leading performance programme for Badminton, Basketball, Volleyball and Cycling to attract and retain student athletes.
Our Sports scholarships programme supports talented student athletes to combine academic and sporting excellence during their time here at the University of Derby
From American Football and Archery to Volleyball and Weightlifting.
Pick the sport that's right for you.
From social sport sessions to campus sports leagues, our activity programmes are available to UoD students and staff throughout the year.
Our Sports Centre offers a superb gym facility, weekly fitness class programme and top-quality facilities for you to enjoy.
If you're passionate about sport, we offer opportunities to work alongside our team and develop skills for later employment

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/union-of-students:
To get more out of your time at university, look to your Union of Students.
They provide so many great services – from student-led Communities to fun nights out , impartial advice to student voice representation , and so much more!
The Union is run completely by students and is independent from the University, though obviously, we work closely together.
You automatically become a member of the Union when you enrol and start your course.
There are Communities to cover any and all interests, faiths and academics - from dodgeball to debate, computing to commuter students and musical theatre to motorsport, there's something for everybody!
Find your tribe and connect with like-minded students with shared interests.
These range from cocktail masterclasses to trips to Alton Towers.
However, the biggest and best event they organise is Freshers’ Fortnight in September.
From club nights and parties to outdoor cinemas and open mic nights, Freshers’ Fortnight has something for everyone.
Latest Events
View Your Union of Students video transcript
Phantom Media is run by students and produces a student paper , TV and radio station .
They need students to help produce content and run the media platforms, so get involved!
University can be daunting, and sometimes you need support or just someone to chat to.
The Union’s Advice Team is independent of the University so you can talk to them in confidence about any issue, large or small.
It’s available to all students at any campus and for online learners too.
The Union is the collective voice of students at the University.
It’s therefore the most effective way to make change happen , whether it’s something big – an issue with your course for example – or something small, like what’s sold in the coffee shop.
The Union has a shop or coffee shop at most sites, but its main outlets are:
Basecamp Blends is a light and welcoming space where both staff and students can work, socialise, book meeting room spaces, and grab some delicious food and drink.
The space is full of natural textures, comfortable seating, and sympathetic lighting to create a relaxed atmosphere – perfect for a mindful moment over a morning cup of coffee or a dedicated day of deadline busting.
Or if you’re in a hurry, we also have Blends On the Go where you can purchase everything from hot and cold drinks to breakfast snacks and sandwiches, as well as a selection of great-tasting cakes, muffins and biscuits to take away.
There are also Blends outlets at Markeaton Street and the Cavendish Building.
Check out the Derby Union Outlets page for updates.
The Union has a shop at Kedleston Road campus.
Selling a range of food, drinks, convenience items, and clothing; hopefully you'll have access to everything you need on site in between your lectures.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/centres-groups:
At the heart of our University's strategic framework is a simple promise to make an impact: everything we do is driven by delivering excellence and opportunities for our students, staff and region.
This promise is embedded in our research, knowledge creation and innovation activity too: it's all focused on making a practical, positive difference to people’s lives regionally, nationally and globally.
We are committed to delivering research that makes a real-world impact and our ground-breaking discoveries.
Our research is focused into six research themes that are aligned to some of the local and global challenges we face.
The interdisciplinary nature of our research enables us to deliver impactful and innovative solutions, concepts and technologies.
We are committed to delivering research that makes a real-world impact.
Our discoveries directly link back into our curriculum with our students receiving the most up-to-date and inspiring education possible.
You can browse through our themes below to see how we've already made a difference to health, business, education, the environment, communities, arts and culture, and many other areas of society.
Our research in the biomedical and clinical field is focused on ways to prevent and treat diseases, improving the health, wellbeing and care of people.
Creative and Cultural Industries is one of our six research themes.
Our research in this area is helping to build a socially responsive and engaged creative and cultural sector.
Our Data Science research builds on the academic expertise in the data science field.
We develop collaborations with academics in a range of other discipline areas to extend the scale and impact of in...
Our research in this area aims to make a real difference to business, economy and society regionally, nationally and internationally.
Our research in this area brings together the disciplines of education; psychology, wellbeing, and therapeutics; nursing, health, allied health professions and social care; and criminal justice and po...
Our Zero Carbon research aims to be a force for positive impact, proactive with the transition to a zero-carbon world and to inform regional, national and international policy.
From helping people live with chronic pain, to using environmental DNA research to trace endangered or invasive species.
Learn about some of the research projects we've worked on and what the outcomes have been.
We are committed to research-led teaching and supporting the professional development of our students and academics at all stages of their career.
By joining our active and growing research community,...
Learn about some of the research projects we’re collaborating with others on and find out how you too could collaborate with us.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/collaborating-research:
We collaborate with a range of organisations on research, including other universities, private businesses, public bodies and third sector operators.
We are always keen to collaborate with other organisations within the UK and beyond.
If you are a business interested in collaborating with us on research and innovation, we have access to a range of funding that can make it more affordable.
Visit our Research and Innovation page for businesses to find out more, or contact our Business Enquiries team.
If you are another type of organisation or an academic and have a research idea you would like to discuss with someone, our University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office is a good place to start, email urkeo@derby.ac.uk .
We're working on research projects, large and small, with a range of businesses.
Rail engineering and infrastructure consultancy ECSL Ltd, has secured funded technical support and expertise from our Innovate 4 Rail programme for their research project into Fibre Reinforced Po...
The Productivity through Innovation programme is currently helping to fund a research project with SOE Health, a company that develops medical devices for sufferers of COPD.
For the last six years, the University of Derby has successfully collaborated with analytical laboratory, SureScreen Scientifics, and its sister company, SureScreen Diagnostics Ltd, on a range of know...
With the low carbon economy critical to UK business growth, researchers from the Derby Business School at the University of Derby have pioneered effective strategies to support more firms to incorpora...
University of Derby research, commissioned by the Let’s Do Business Group (LDBG), has helped justify the relevance and impact of financial support for hundreds of start-up and small businesses and ide...
Innovative research by the Centre for Supply Chain Improvement (CSCI) into green-lean and lean logistics is enabling transport, manufacturing and emergency medical service industries worldwide to...
We are working with health providers and the education sector to shed light on some important issues.
Scientists at the University of Derby are leading a pioneering international study to improve the lives of people suffering with the prolonged and life impairing impacts of long-Covid.
University of Derby research centre works with charitable foundation and local enterprise partnership to conduct four-year study in schools and colleges in the North East of England.
As the number of nurses leaving the NHS hits an all-time high, researchers from the University of Derby have received national recognition for their work in increasing the retention rate of newly qual...
Here's a glimpse into some of the research partnerships we've been involved in, that aim to have a positive impact on local communities or the environment.
Researchers at the University of Derby have developed an innovative technique for inducing the spawning of corals in captivity for the first time – paving the way for large-scale international conserv...
The University's Nature Connectedness Research Group is working with the Yorkshire Sculpture Park and the Bronze Oak Project for an initiative due to launch in the Spring.
Researchers at the University of Derby are using historical collections in creative ways to engage the public and shed new light on the city’s influence in the global Enlightenment of the 17th and 18t...

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase:
We have entered a new and exciting era for research at the University of Derby.
Research is a fundamental part of our identity as an academic institution and the work we do has a real impact.
Andy Pringle’s journey to university professor is not a traditional one.
Find out how Andy's school reboot helped him to become a Professor at the University of Derby.
Senior Lecturer, Oliver, took a trip to India which opened his eyes to the power of research.
Find out how this trip continues to inspire Oliver's work.
Yusra’s research journey is nothing short of inspiring.
Find out how Yusra continued to follow her passion for research through moving across the world, motherhood and the Covid-19 pandemic.
Real-life problems have always been at the heart of Aaisha’s research.
Find out how the problems people face every day inspire her research journey and passion.
Dr Charlie Whiffin is carrying out important work on how Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) affects families.
Find out how her journey began.
From Alzheimer's Disease to historical events, listen to our Innovation and Research podcast as we discover what our researchers are working on.
Our researchers are currently leading a study that is exploring the causes of Post Exertional Malaise (PEM) and Post Exertional Symptom Exacerbation (PESE) in people living with long Covid.
We hope th...
Dr Naveed Khan, Professor of Biomedical Science, and his team are investigating the gut microbiome of pests such as cockroaches to see if they can create a new antibiotic to treat medical conditions.
...
Psychological factors, such as personality traits, can influence athletes’ vulnerability and resistance to the temptation to dope.
This project links two opposing self-concepts, namely narcissis...
Researcher Dr Kirsten McEwan has looked into improving wellbeing, physical health and social connection through nature-based interventions, such as Forest Bathing.
Understanding our past can help us learn and discover how and why historical events occurred.
Researcher Marc Bosward is concerned with how history and society can be understood through the practice o...
The CRUSE project aimed to develop the intercultural competencies of graduates and employees in Europe by enhancing the quality and relevance of their skills to enable them to be active professionals ...
As the number of nurses leaving the NHS hits an all-time high, our researchers have received national recognition for their work in increasing the retention rate of newly qualified nurses.
Health psychology experts have helped improve the treatment of pain – and quality of life – for patients with chronic medical conditions.
Our behavioural research is shaping national and international programmes which draw on the power of nature connectedness to improve mental wellbeing and encourage pro-environmental action.
Psychology experts are leading a drive to raise maths attainment in education and improve numeracy skills in the workplace – by tackling the fear of maths affecting both children and adults.
Our researchers have developed an innovative technique for inducing coral spawning in captivity for the first time – paving the way for international conservation efforts to restore endangered reefs.
Our new environmental DNA barcoding techniques provide a vital first step for successful conservation programmes and delivering real-world solutions for the ecological industry.
Our research has led to every student in mainstream secondary education in England benefiting from new standards for excellence as part of their school’s career guidance programme.
Our researchers have highlighted how further education policies have the potential to widen the gap in young people’s transitions to employment and adulthood.
The FORMAT festival has grown to become the UK’s leading international photography festival and makes a significant and cultural impact on the city of Derby.
At a time where our public parks and urban trees are under threat, our research is playing a pivotal role in efforts to safeguard, restore and manage these invaluable features of our cities and towns.
The World Health Organisation, Glastonbury Festival, YouTube and the BBC are just some of the many organisations to have tuned into our expertise in immersive and live audio applications.
The University of Derby’s landmark research to increase the rate and integrity of criminal convictions is being used to shape a protocol being drafted for the United Nations.
Social mobility projects aimed at transforming the lives of disadvantaged children and families in Derby have been shaped, strengthened and extended – thanks to the expertise of our researchers.
With the low-carbon economy critical to UK business growth, our researchers have pioneered effective strategies to support more firms to incorporate green practices into their operations.
Green-lean and lean logistics research is enabling transport, manufacturing and emergency medical service industries to combine improvements in productivity with a stronger environmental performance.
University of Derby research has shaped international and national policies that address discrimination, promote equality and challenge extremism related to religion or belief.
Trainee healthcare professionals worldwide have benefited from resources developed by the University of Derby that strengthen their lifelong learning skills for improved practice in the workplace.
Our expertise has helped justify the relevance and impact of financial support for hundreds of start-up and small businesses and identified further areas for enhancing support.
Our researchers are using historical collections in creative ways to engage the public and shed new light on Derby’s influence in the global Enlightenment of the 17th and 18th centuries.
Around one in 12 people suffer from a mental health disorder, making improving mental wellbeing a global priority.
Our pioneering research has led to effective therapies and interventions.
Vital debates about climate change are being taken into new communities – thanks to our thought-provoking artistic research.
Groundbreaking data science research at the University of Derby is delivering both technical and economic benefits for major organisations such as CERN.
Research from our Institute of Education has helped deliver more inclusive and socially just support for children and young people with special educational needs and disability (SEND).
University of Derby research has delivered metal 3D printing solutions for a range of industrial applications, helping businesses to improve their efficiency and productivity.
University of Derby expertise in edge computing is helping businesses to capture and process data for faster decision-making – including improving their response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Researchers have delivered important new perspectives on the historical relationship – and interdependency – between the Irish and British by capturing a wide range of Irish diasporic experiences.
Researchers at the University of Derby are leading exploration of whether compassion-based approaches in education might offer an alternative solution for this sector.
Researchers at the University of Derby are considering harnessing geothermal energy as a way of either heating or cooling systems or to generate electricity.
Researchers working on project SMARTey are investigating musculoskeletal health risks associated with physical tasks undertaken by the early year's workforce.
From the future of energy supply to connecting with nature - what our researchers are working on.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/researchers/supporting-researchers:
Derby boasts a dynamic research environment and a close-knit community of 400 research students and 300 research-active staff.
We are committed to providing exceptional support and encouragement, empowering them to push boundaries, innovate, and succeed in their fields.
We offer a variety of initiatives and resources to ensure our Postgraduate Research (PGR) students feel supported throughout their journey.
If you are a researcher or early-career researcher, we have several initiatives to support you in delivering ground-breaking research with real-world impact.
Our Researcher Development Programme develops the skills you need for your research and future career.
At the University, we are committed to empowering our researchers at every stage of their careers.
Whether you are just starting out or leading pioneering projects, we provide the resources, spaces, and opportunities you need to thrive.
From dedicated research environments and expert training to funding guidance and networking opportunities, our support is designed to help you make an impact.
We encourage a collaborative community where ideas flourish, connections are made, and research drives real-world change.
Our University is committed to a supportive and inclusive culture where wellbeing, diversity, and opportunity are at the heart of everything we do.
We believe that a thriving academic and professional environment is built on respect, inclusivity, and the right support for both staff and students.
To achieve this, we offer a wide range of initiatives, policies, staff networks, student societies, and events throughout the year, all designed to promote a sense of belonging and ensure that everyone can reach their full potential.
Explore the support available:
Whether you are a member of staff or a student, we are committed to ensuring you have access to the resources and support needed to succeed and feel valued within our University community.
Supporting health and wellbeing in the workplace is a key priority for us, which is why we offer the Work Health Hub .
This initiative provides tailored training, guidance, and resources to help individuals and businesses create healthier, more productive working environments.
And as part of our commitment to fostering an inclusive and supportive research environment, we also champion the Technician Commitment , ensuring that our skilled technical staff receive the recognition, development opportunities, and career support they deserve.
We value the importance of connecting our research community and sharing the outstanding work taking place across the University.
To support this, we organise a variety of events that allow our researchers, students, and the wider community to come together, engage with each other, and showcase the impact of their research.
Some of the key events include:
These events provide valuable opportunities for networking, learning, and celebrating the impact of research across a wide range of disciplines.
Our PGR Cafes provide valuable opportunities for Derby’s research community to connect, share, and learn.
The PGR Cafés are specifically designed for Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) to present their research, network with peers, and engage with fellow students to help build a more cohesive, supportive research environment at the University of Derby.
The library supports the university research community in realising their ambitions by opening up new areas of knowledge and understanding.
Our dedicated Library team supports staff and students at every stage of their research journey, from postgraduate research students to established academics.
Inductions, along with training and guidance on publication practice, help researchers develop confidence in research metrics, Open Access publishing, copyright, and how to maximise the visibility and impact of research outputs.
Our librarians offer expert guidance on essential topics, including navigating library systems, effective literature searching, and reference management.
The library manages the University of Derby Online Research Archive (UDORA) , our institutional repository, which showcases research outputs from the University and ensures compliance with funder mandates and the institutional Publication and Open Access policy.
The Civic Collection includes long-form publications authored or edited by University of Derby staff across all disciplines, inspiring students and celebrating the work of our researchers.
The Library actively supports Open Research and responsible research assessment, promoting transparency, collaboration, and accessibility in scholarly communication.
Library Services provide access to a vast collection of research materials and content, including over 50,000 journals, more than 450,000 e-books, and an extensive selection of printed resources.
Our digital collections and digital-first policy ensure that researchers have access to scholarly content either from our collections or further supplemented through our Interlibrary Loan service, which enables access to a broader network of academic resources.
Our Books For You service gives students the option to request books to support personal learning and research, wellbeing and enrichment.
The Scan and Deliver service enables staff and students to request a digital copy of any chapter or article that the Library holds in print, facilitating access to printed resources for all.
The Doctoral College is a dedicated space designed to support your research journey, spark collaboration, and create a true home for our postgraduate research community.
Located on the upper ground floor of the library at Kedleston Road, this space is more than just a place to work – it’s where ideas connect, inspiration grows, and knowledge thrives.
Whether you need a quiet corner to focus, a welcoming space to meet with your supervisor, or an environment to exchange ideas with fellow researchers, you’ll find it here.
Designed with flexibility in mind, the Doctoral College offers a mix of social, networking, and study areas, as well as bookable meeting rooms, a dedicated Viva Voce Examination room, and facilities for both individual and group work.
A fully equipped kitchen is also available, ensuring you have everything you need to make the space your own.
Are you looking for a research career at the University of Derby?
Find out more about current vacancies and what it is like to work here.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research:
Make an enquiry
Research, innovation and development allows you to explore new possibilities, test new ideas, and develop new products and processes.
We are right at the heart of the issues, challenges and opportunities that are critical to growing innovation and business - here and around the world.
Working with and within businesses and partner organisations we invest resources to stimulate Research and Development, open up facilities to support innovation and break down barriers to improve productivity and accelerate growth.
Form a partnership with us and a recent graduate, to drive forward a high-priority project for your business.
We can access government funding, which can pay for up to two thirds of the project cost.
We offer a range of consultancy services to businesses large and small.
This service offers support on project from large to small and will provide you with a new perspective.
The University of Derby will benefit from a share of £2.3m from the UK Share Prosperity Fund (UKSPF) which is in partnership with Derbyshire City Council and the Chamber.
The combined programmes...
This free business health check tool is specifically designed to offer practical guidance on how to improve the performance of your business.
Find out about some of the businesses we're helping.
We've supported new venture, Tech Air Solutions, with fully-funded research that has helped them understand the science behind their new cleaning air solution.
We're supporting an electrical design consultancy's research into faults in solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, so that it can develop solutions to protect against these.
During the pandemic, our research engineers worked with local NHS trusts and Derby-based SME, Riverside Medical Packaging Ltd, to design and manufacture face shields for healthcare staff caring for pa...
Blind Screen has experienced remarkable growth, with the University of Derby playing a key role in driving its success.
To find out more about how you could benefit from our expertise, talk to our Business Services team .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding:
Your business could be eligible for grants and loans, as well as funded business support programmes.
Most of these are aimed at local businesses who want to innovate, grow, de-carbonise or upskill..
Here are our current business support programmes for SMEs in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire.
They are either part-funded or fully-funded, meaning they are available at no-cost or low-cost to you.
Each programme has a specific focus, such as a sector or outcome, but don't worry, we can help you find the right support for your organisation – contact us for advice .
Our Invest to Grow programme provides grants and loans of between £15,000 and £250,000 to support private-sector businesses across the Midlands to innovate, grow and create jobs.
A £2 million grant fund for businesses interested in developing and investing in green energy and carbon reduction.
The High Peak Skills for Business Programme is available to support businesses within the High Peaks, it can offer you a range of business support in skills such as digital, employability and green.
The Create Growth D2 Hub, where inspiration meets innovation.
Our vision is clear: to be the cornerstone of knowledge, inspiration, and support for the Creative Industries in Derby and Derbyshire.
Help To Grow: Management programme provides 1-1 mentorship and world-class training for leaders of small and medium-sized businesses across the UK.
The Skills Brokerage Service is here to help.
Whether you're looking to upskill your workforce, identify gaps in training, or find funding for development opportunities, we provide expert support ever...
Your business may be eligible for financial support towards the costs of employing a student or graduate, as well as free recruitment support from our Employer Engagement team.
Support to accelerate business growth within the low carbon sector and resources for businesses wishing to adopt a more sustainable approach.
The University of Derby has been helping SMEs become cleaner, greener and more resilient for years.
We know that growing your business whilst being kind to the planet isn’t always easy.
The Mental Health and Productivity Pilot will implement new workplace interventions at pilot organisations, and rollout existing interventions in businesses across the Midlands Engine geography.
Access our latest research tools to help grow your business.
This student-led clinic provides free accounting and finance support to SMEs.
Advice is tailored to the specific requirements of your organisation.
Our consultancy service offers free access to our academic and technical experts to help bring innovative solutions to your organisation.
The University of Derby is our first port-of-call for new talent and to explore funding opportunities…It has been a key partner in our growth.
Learn about our previous programmes and how they have helped participants
This fully funded programme helped participants to develop leadership skills to drive productivity and growth.
Our STEM workshops taught learners how to develop important business skills such as data analytics, data security and problem-solving maths.
Reskill and Recover helped participants learn about growth and productivity, especially following the challenges of the past few years.
Each programme has specific eligibility criteria that's linked to the funding, so it can be confusing.
But don't worry, our Business Enquiries team can help you find the right support for your organisation.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment:
We'll help you find and develop your future leaders or build short-term capacity in your team.
Our students and graduates have high-level skills, fresh thinking, and huge potential.
By offering them work opportunities, you can help nurture their talent and bring new skills into your business.
As an applied University, our students and graduates are already experienced at using their knowledge to solve real business challenges, and we help them build practical and technical skills during their course.
This means they can jump straight into your organisation and hit the ground running.
If you are looking to offer work opportunities to help nurture their talent and bring new skills into your organisation, the Derby Talent Team can work with you to help you find your future leaders, graduate talent and build short term capacity in your team.
As part of the Careers and Employment Service, the Derby Talent Team are specialists in student and graduate recruitment, offering help, advice and guidance to organisations.
Access our industry engaged graduates by promoting your graduate level opportunities.
There are many ways to engage with our students, from year in industry placements, to delivering in curriculum, plus much more.
Utilise our free toolkit to maximise reaching students, recruiting graduates and retaining your employees.
Attend our events to raise your profile on campus and to share your opportunities and expertise with our students and graduates.
Through the Derby Talent Programme your business may be eligible for financial support towards the costs of employing a student or graduate intern.
The University of Derby is a university of and for business; an applied university, committed to using our research and knowledge, expertise and resources to inspire and develop the organisations of today and tomorrow.
Using technology, we offer learning and personal development, industry-shaping research and innovation, digital networking events and seminars along with support to nurture and recruit your workforce.
For further information, learn about our growing innovation and business .
The University of Derby is our first port-of-call for new talent.
We have employed 15 graduates, hosted six students for their ‘year in industry’, and provided placements for a masters student and PhD students.
To discuss any of this information in more detail, please get in touch with the Derby Talent Team .
Their job is to make it easy for you to access our student and graduate talent and they have lots of experience working with organisations across many sectors.
You can contact us by:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/training-development:
Learning and development is vital to the success of any business.
It can help you upskill your workforce, increase quality and productivity, and improve morale.
But we know it can be challenging to find high-quality learning and development that’s relevant to your industry, cost effective and fits around work demands — particularly if you're only just starting-up or scaling-up your business.
Fortunately, our portfolio of work-related education and training solves that problem.
We offer a range of part-time, professional business and management courses to inspire and help you develop whatever stage of your career you are at.
See what free training is currently on offer to small and medium sized businesses, through our Business Support Programmes.
Work-based learning programmes are tailored to your organisation’s aims and required outcomes.
Before designing your programme, we work with your directors or Executive to understand your o...
As a leader in online education for almost two decades, we can help empower your employees through highly flexible and affordable digital learning solutions.
In response to the climate crisis, the College of Business, Law and Social Sciences has commissioned this Carbon Literacy programme in conjunction with the Carbon Literacy Project to support Universit...
Find out more about the online platform, the Work Health Hub aiming to drive positive mental health and wellbeing in the workplace.
Our wealth of experience, knowledge and impactful research enables us to create and deliver programmes and workshops to support sustainable and innovative business development.
If you're looking for a rigorous taught course for your employees, many of our undergraduate and postgraduate qualifications are available to study part-time – either through on-campus sessions during evenings, afternoons or weekends, or through 100% online learning .
Many of our courses - both on-campus and online - are accredited by professional bodies , such as the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) or the Institute for Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
This means those qualifications meet the high standards set by your industry and often, they are a fast-track to a professional status such as Chartered Manager or Incorporated Engineer.
These programmes all include work-related tasks or projects.
Our range of qualifications include foundation levels, bachelors degrees and masters degrees.
Use our course search to find subjects of interest to you.
Or if you need something more bespoke, consider work-based learning .
Course search
The time I took out each week was invaluable.
It allowed me to step back and focus on the direction of the business moving forwards, including my vision for the future.
If you’re not yet sure what type of education or training you need, our specialist business services team will listen and guide you towards the solution that’s right for you.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/facilities:
Here at the University of Derby, we have a wide range of facilities and state-of-the-art equipment that offer valuable opportunities for businesses across a broad range of industries and sectors.
From specialist equipment to support innovation through to spaces for conferences, training, team building and filming, our facilities can offer flexible solutions for your individual requirements.
The Enterprise Centre is a purpose-built conference facility in Derby offering a tailored service that delivers both value and peace of mind.
Conference rooms for hire in Derby.
Event management servi...
We can facilitate all kinds of productions with a flexible service and a variety of locations available all year round.
Our full replica Crown Court features contemporary technology and will give you practical learning opportunities so you can develop and hone your skills.
Our custody suite is a modern and iconic building in the heart of Derby's vibrant city centre that creates the perfect environment for innovative and engaging teaching.
Our OMICS Facility is fully equipped with Metabolomics and Genomics capabilities.
The Human Performance Unit (HPU) is a dedicated space focused on providing sport science services to coaches, individuals and teams wanting to enhance their performance.
Our students can gain experience using our Immersive Interactive Simulation Suite which combines innovative technology, virtual reality, interactive 3D graphics and audio content.
The six-bed hospital ward is complete with teaching facilities, a nurses' station, patient bathroom, patient mobility equipment and simulated-learning patients.
Our Scanning Electron Microscope generates striking high-resolution images by magnifying objects from 20-30,000 times, which is substantially greater than light microscopes.
Our halls of residence are available for group bookings throughout the year subject to availability.
Ideal for your conference, team-building or special interest getaway.
Our Green Screen studio offers a professional, turn-key filming environment tailored for video production and multimedia content creation.
Our Podcast Studios feature two ‘Operator/Broadcaster’ studios and one Control Room + Live Room space, the latter ideal for roundtable discussion of up to four people.
To find out more about our facilities, please contact our business engagement team.
Find out how film production company Goldbox have benefitted from the University's facilities.
View Goldbox on facilities video transcript
Explore an overview of last year's impact delivered, through the University's incubation facilities and associated activities
As well as accessing our game-changing equipment and facilities, our team of knowledgeable academics are equipped with the expertise and skills to bring your business to the next level.
Find out more about connecting with our academic experts with our Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/contact-us:
Whatever your business needs, we want to hear from you.
Complete the enquiry form below and a member of our Business Engagement team will be in touch, or call us on 0800 001 5500 .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/helping-corals-survive:
Coral reefs are ecologically and economically immensely valuable.
More than 500 million people are directly dependent on them.
However, they are deteriorating critically at a global scale due to environmental impacts caused by man-made activities.
These effects are both direct, such as pollution, overfishing, and indirect – increasing sea surface temperatures due to climate change.
The result is the impaired health of the corals, which can be described as ecosystem engineers.
It has been estimated that, globally, more than 50% of coral reefs have already been lost since the industrial revolution.
Mortality has increased in frequency and intensity in the last two decades.
The death of a reef often follows a mass bleaching event – the corals lose their colour – due to the rising sea temperature.
While political policy mechanisms must be used to reduce the causes of climate change, our researchers are seeking ways to conserve corals for as long as possible.
To achieve this, we are investigating a number of approaches.
And we are conducting research to understand more about the general ecology of corals.
We are working on several projects with our international collaborators.
This includes:
Dr Michael Sweet, Associate Professor and lead principal investigator of our Aquatic Research Facility , says: “What makes our work special (in our eyes) is our close collaborations with other groups from charities, trusts, universities and even the United Nations and other policy makers.
These tight collaborations span many countries and continents, including projects running in America, Australia, Maldives, Brazil and Palau.”
And Dr Till Röthig, researcher in the Aquatic Research Facility, adds: “This is exciting work on the forefront of international research.
And maybe our work can help corals and their struggle with climate change at some stage – but we really need to cut carbon emissions globally.”
One strand of our research focuses on the microbial communities that are associated with corals.
These are the groups of microorganisms, the tiny creatures that share the corals’ living space.
As with any animal, corals host rich and diverse microbial communities, often referred to as the coral’s microbiome.
Unlike most other animals, however, corals also host single-cell algae from the family symbiodiniaceae.
These algae are extremely important to the corals.
They provide the corals with essential nutrition – think along the lines of sugar in your coffee or tea.
Other microbes, for instance, bacteria, acquire and recycle nutrients for the coral.
They are also involved in mechanisms that support the coral’s immunity.
The coral microbiome therefore plays a crucial role in the health of corals.
This includes when the corals are stressed due to climate change impacts.
In this context, we co-created an international network, the Beneficial Microorganisms of Marine Organisms (BMMO), to assist in the understanding of the functions of specific microbes and to investigate the potential for employing them as ‘probiotics’.
The goal is to apply microbes to corals in a similar way to humans eating probiotic yogurts to support the microbial community in your gut.
This may very well offer increased resilience of some corals in the face of the ongoing environmental changes.
View Saving our coral reefs video transcript
The manipulation of microbes has been successful in plant research, for instance to clean contaminated soil and water, and in aquaculture (the farming in water of fish, shellfish, aquatic plants etc).
Coral probiotics is very much in its infancy.
However, due to improved laboratory techniques, large portions of the coral microbiome are now culturable, meaning we can cultivate them in the lab.
This has led us to identify the first collection of bacterial groups which, upon inoculation of corals, increase coral resilience.
However, the enormous complexity of the coral microbiome presents a substantial challenge to identifying specific functions of certain individual key or core microbes and how they benefit their host.
Dr Röthig says: “We address important questions of evolutionary biology, for instance: how does the symbiosis between corals and their microbial partners really work?”
And the application of “microbial treatments” in the marine environment and over large areas is an unprecedented undertaking.
It bears many risks which need to be taken into consideration.
Professor Sweet adds: “We really believe in the power of our tiny microbial partners and exploring how they shape and drive functionality in any given host always brings to light something exciting and novel with each and every experiment we undertake.”
Michael is an Associate Professor in Aquatic Biology.
In addition to his teaching and research supervision responsibilities at the University, he is the manager of the Aquatic Research Facility, which was funded through his partnership with SeaLife.
He has won numerous awards, including the Charles Darwin Award lecture from the British Science Association.
Our researchers have found one way of increasing survival rates in young corals – raising them with juvenile sea urchins.
Our work with the Horniman Museum and Gardens in London found the survival rate was eight times higher if the lab-spawned corals were raised alongside the young sea urchins.
This is because algae, which can overwhelm reefs if not kept in check, is eaten by the juvenile urchins without damaging the coral.
Adult sea urchins can cause damage and will even eat coral.
Compared with a coral survival rate of just 5% in a tank without any urchins, researchers found that 40% of the corals survived for six months in the tank with the most urchins (18 urchins reared alongside 1,250 corals).
The research was published in September 2019 in open access journal Scientific Reports.
Professor Sweet says: "This research has overcome significant challenges in terms of logistics and husbandry, to rear sea urchins to exactly the right size to graze without damaging the juvenile corals, allowing them to thrive.
In addition, we highlight one possible way in which reef restoration can be self-funded, by co-culturing a commercially important species and using the profits to funnel back into methods to try and save our reefs."
Dr Jamie Craggs, lead researcher and curator at the Horniman Aquarium, says: "Low survival rates of juvenile corals are currently a barrier to effective reef restoration.
This new co-culturing technique using sea urchins makes possible a major up-scaling in the number of corals that could be reared and transplanted onto damaged reefs, and we’re already getting interest from leading reef restoration organisations around the world."
We provide students, academics, government agencies, industry and business with exciting opportunities to contribute to urgent global challenges in climate change and sustainable development.
Dr Röthig is also investigating a previously overlooked threat to coral.
He is researching how climate change affects the salinity of sea water and how this is linked to the thermal sensitivity of corals.
He explains: “Coral reefs are under critical decline from rising temperatures globally but low salinity seems to decrease the thermal tolerance of corals.
High temperatures in particular, but also low salinity, can cause coral bleaching and mortality – the main reason why we have lost globally about 50% of coral since 2015.
“For corals to withstand rising temperatures for longer, the interactive effects with salinity may be crucial.
The whole topic could have massive implications for coral restoration and conservation, and yet it is largely overlooked.”
Dr Röthig has received an international award for this research.
He is the recipient of the 2019 Ruth Gates Memorial Award from the International Coral Reef Society.
The award comes with a $5,000 research grant.
He adds: “The award means an international recognition of the importance of the work we are doing in the field of coral research at the University of Derby and its potential implications for the protection and regeneration of reefs across the world.”
Here's everything you need to know about how to join us for your postgraduate research degree.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2023/derby-awarded-prestigious-gold-status-for-teaching-excellence:
28 September 2023
The University of Derby has been awarded Gold in the prestigious Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023 – making it one of the top universities in the country recognised for its outstanding student experience and student outcomes.
The TEF is a national scheme run by the Office for Students that aims to encourage higher education providers to improve and deliver excellence in the areas that students care about the most: teaching, learning and achieving positive outcomes from their studies.
As well as achieving an overall rating of Gold, in the two underpinning ratings of the TEF, Derby was awarded Gold for student experience and Silver for student outcomes.
Derby’s continued success in the TEF, as it was awarded Gold when the Framework first launched in 2017, comes off the back of recent achievements in the National Student Survey 2023, in which the University was ranked in the Top 20 nationally for assessment and feedback, as well as in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024, where the University was rated in the Top 20 for teaching quality, and in the Top 20 in the UK for overall student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2024.
Professor Kathryn Mitchell CBE DL, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Derby, said:
“We are delighted that we have once again been awarded Gold in the TEF and I am so proud of colleagues at the University of Derby for their hard work and commitment to excellence which has resulted in this fantastic achievement.
“Our students are at the heart of all that we do at the University of Derby, and we are fully focused on ensuring that they receive the highest-quality teaching and learning experience, one that is underpinned by innovation, academic excellence, ground-breaking research and is aligned to industry needs.
“We are proud to have established a strong reputation for learning and teaching over the years, reinforced by this TEF result, and we will continue to drive forward as an ambitious, applied university which focuses on enabling students to achieve the best possible outcomes for their future.”
The TEF ratings reflect the extent to which a provider delivers an excellent experience and outcomes for its mix of undergraduate students and across the range of its undergraduate courses and subjects.
228 providers took part in TEF 2023.
Professor Keith McLay, Provost – Learning & Teaching at the University of Derby, said:
“Our approach to learning and teaching at Derby is one that is student-focused, tailored and inclusive, to ensure our students get an outstanding experience during their time with us and that they are challenged to fulfil their full potential.
“We have invested significantly in our learning and teaching frameworks and t ake seriously our role in providing students with not only state-of-the-art facilities, but ensuring they are surrounded by academic rigour, excellence and expertise .
We are therefore delighted with this resul t.”
In 2017, the University of Derby was awarded a Gold rating in the country’s first TEF.
The 2023 TEF results last for four years.
Read more about the Teaching Excellence Framework , including the full list of results.
To find out more about studying at the University of Derby, visit derby.ac.uk
For further information contact the press office at pressoffice@derby.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/business-courses:
Unlock your potential as a future business leader.
Study Business at Derby and benefit from practical learning, industry connections, and dual-accredited degrees.
Business Management BA (Hons)
Business Management and Marketing BA (Hons)
Business Management and Entrepreneurship BA (Hons)
Business Management and Finance BA (Hons)
International Business and AI BSc (Hons)
With our Accounting, Economics and Finance degrees, you will gain hands-on experience with the latest professional data and information services.
Whether you are interested in becoming a solicitor, barrister or developing your knowledge of the legal sector, our law degrees provide you with transferable skills through real-world learning in spec...
Gain a solid foundation to build an exciting career in marketing and communications through inspiring guest speakers, industry experience and opportunities to study abroad.
At Derby, our Business courses combine academic excellence with real-world experience, ensuring you graduate ready to lead and innovate in the competitive world of business.
The Derby Business School is a hub for impactful research that shapes the future of business.
Highlights include:
Our academics collaborate with industry partners on projects that directly benefit businesses, and students are encouraged to engage in this research through dissertation work or live case studies.
We pride ourselves on strong links with local, national, and global businesses, providing our students with invaluable real-world exposure.
Examples include:
University of Derby students have access to real live financial data and can experience what it’s like to work on a trading floor in our Financial Markets Lab.
A Business degree from Derby opens doors to diverse career paths, including:
Our graduates have gone on to work for companies like PwC, Unilever, HSBC, and Rolls-Royce, while others have successfully launched their own ventures.
We support your career journey through:
Natalia Jarczynska’s extensive work experience has allowed her to put the skills she is learning on her Business Management degree into practice.
Ioana Bactu could have studied anywhere.
As a 19-year-old in Bucharest, Romania, she looked at courses and opportunities that would help create her future.
She chose Derby.
Alex finished his degree confident he had all the right skills and attributes to do well in the workplace.
And employers clearly thought so too: he had four job offers before graduating.
Our research team are in the top 2% of the most highly-cited researchers in the world.
They have been featured in the top 160,000 cited researchers out of seven million researchers worldwide.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/civic:
This is the one-stop shop for all things Civic and the best place to find out about all the fantastic projects and initiatives we're involved in.
View University of Derby: Civic Success video transcript
Here you can read our Civic University Agreement, follow our Civic news, find out about important research that's underway, and read about the real difference this is all making to local communities and individuals.
We are delighted to be a Civic University and proud of the positive impact we are making across the city and county.
We are also thankful for all of the support we receive from stakeholders, partners and the signatories of the Civic University Agreement, who are all working hard to make Derby and Derbyshire the best places to live, work and study.
Recent projects you can learn about on this page include our Creative Engineering Summer School in partnership with UK New Artists; touring our Civic Curiosity E-Bikes™ at Timber Festival; our newly-launched Civic Community Fund; our creative people and places project with Make/Shift; the Create Growth Programme; our branch of the National Saturday Club and the fourth annual CivicLAB Conference.
Read our civic news
As a Civic University, we lead on a wide range of projects and initiatives that are making a real difference to local communities - opening doors to opportunities, raising aspirations and helping to transform lives.
We have a series of flagship projects and community engagement opportunities which run exciting activities all year round, including the National Saturday Club: Society and Change, the Social Higher Education Depot (S.H.E.D™) and newly-launched Civic Curiosity E-Bikes™.
S.H.E.D™ is a research and innovation space that engages with lifelong learning and teaching through creative industry and cultural practice.
S.H.E.D™ is adaptable and can be what you want it to be.
Each of these e-cargo bikes features a compact wooden cabinet which can be unfolded to reveal compartments containing curious artefacts, for engaging the public in a mobile and fun way.
The University of Derby Saturday Club mornings are free for young people from Derby and Derbyshire.
Youngsters of all abilities who have an interest in creative and artistic practice are welcome.
The five goals set out within the Civic University Agreement have been developed in direct response to both the challenges and opportunities facing Derby, Derbyshire and the communities within it.
They are designed to make a long-lasting positive impact on the city and county, bringing benefits to many.
This goal is focused on driving forward the city and county's strategic growth and helping to realise its development ambitions.
By working together and using our collective knowledge, expertise and influence we can demonstrate how we can deliver on the government's levelling-up agenda to attract investment, retain talent within the region and address the skills gap.
In September 2022, Rolls-Royce Submarines Ltd opened the doors to a new Nuclear Skills Academy, with 200 new apprenticeships embarking on a career in the nuclear industry.
Derby has become one of just two UK cities to be accepted as members of UNESCO’s Global Network of Learning Cities in the latest round of applications.
The University of Derby and its Union of Students have been awarded the Responsible Futures accreditation delivered by SOS-UK.
We are a university of and for business.
We use our research, knowledge, talent and facilities to help companies grow and innovate.
We work with organisations of all shapes and sizes.
The University’s Widening Participation team supports the achievement of the University’s civic and social mobility ambitions through the creation and delivery of a number of significant o...
This goal is focused on improving the attainment and education of young people, raising aspirations and ensuring those who want to learn are enabled to do so.
We aim to make a positive impact on society by creating opportunities and supporting the ambitions of our local communities, celebrating diversity, recognising and responding to the challenges individuals face, and sharing best practice across organisations so that collectively we can enhance the city and county's workforce.
Derby has been included in UNESCO’s Global Network of Learning Cities in recognition of its outstanding efforts to make lifelong learning a reality in the city.
A new mural artwork at Littleover Community School in Derby has been unveiled  following a project involving the school and the University of Derby.
Local teachers from Alvaston Infant and Nursery School were given the opportunity to visit Africa to learn about different educational approaches, thanks to sponsorship from the University of Derby.
The Union is run completely by students.
It is independent from the University though we work closely together.
S.H.E.D partnered with UK New Artists for a free, week-long summer school for 12 - 19-year-olds, exploring the intersection between art and engineering.
This goal is focused on helping businesses to incorporate green practices into their operations, supporting the city and county's broader environmental and sustainability ambitions.
We are also working to create a more sustainable transport infrastructure to bring wider benefits to the community, reduce any negative impacts of tourism on the natural, cultural and social environment, and increase biodiversity across the University estate, Derby and Derbyshire.
Designing Dialogue CiC was commissioned by the University of Derby to design and deliver for Derbyshire County Council their public engagement of the first Local Nature Recovery Strategy.
The Government has given the green light for a new £13m East Midlands Institute of Technology (IoT).
This role is focused on leveraging the significant research and practitioner expertise we have at the University to bring benefits to local stakeholder groups and communities, supporting and responding to their needs.
We will work to create a highly skilled health and social care workforce that is fit for today and prepared for the future and influence policy, regulation and practice at a regional and national level.
The Mental Health and Productivity Pilot aims to reduce mental health related absence, presenteeism, and the stigma associated with mental health in the workplace.
Two Children's Nursing students have won the Zenith Global Healthcare Rising Star award, along with other team members, for their work in curating the Children and Young People Student Nurse Network.
DREAMS is a collaborative project between the University of Derby School of Arts with Derbyshire's NHS mental health rehabilitation and recovery inpatient services.
This goal is focused on supporting the sustainability of the city and county's arts and cultural organisations.
We will champion the arts as a driver for excellence within education and for positive change within communities, and will increase the present of student practice within the city and county, helping to grow the creative and cultural ecology.
A research project that aims to increase diversity in cultural and natural social prescribing programmes through shared training has been awarded £74,656 from the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
We are part of the National Saturday Club network for 13-16-year-olds, a free-to-attend club where youngsters can learn new skills, discover talents and meet new people.
Derby CAN (Derby Creative Arts Network) is a project where organisations create theatre and live events in partnership with people who live in Derby and the surrounding areas.
The University was the headline sponsor for Gaia, a stunning artwork installation on display at Derby Cathedral.
Communities within Amber Valley are benefiting from a new programme of cultural activity after a consortium, led by the University of Derby, was awarded a grant of up to £826,000 for the project.
The University of Derby hosts successful national hub of the Being Human Festival of the Humanities.
CivicLAB is a research group that looks at culture and creativity and their impact on society.
Professor John Steel's inaugural lecture explores recent research which has sought to reinvigorate the promise of journalism and address its contemporary crisis of legitimacy.
Researchers at Derby have taken a humble garden shed and transformed it into S.H.E.D (Social Higher Education Depot), a creative, socially, and civically engaged touring arts programme.
Public engagement is core to our civic activity.
Across various regional projects and activities, the University welcomes members of the public to get involved as participants, co-researchers, and audiences, contributing to the cultural, social, and economic vibrancy of our region.
We have received a number of accreditations for our Civic work, including being awarded a Bronze Engagement Watermark from the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE), joining UNESCO's Global Network of Learning Cities , becoming a 2* Fairtrade University and being a Responsible Futures accredited institution.
Young creatives from Derby and Derbyshire were given a unique opportunity to explore the award-winning gardens of the historic Chatsworth Estate, thanks to a nationwide initiative hosted by the University of Derby.
A new sustainable travel hub at the University of Derby’s Kedleston Road site is now open, giving students and staff greater choice when deciding how to travel.
Hundreds of secondary school pupils from across Derby participated in an exciting two-day science-themed event which focused on climate action, sustainability and jobs of the future.
A unique national music competition designed to celebrate nature and inspire hope has announced its winners for 2025.
New research has shown that a shift in conservation strategies is needed with the UK's peatlands facing an uncertain future.
You can contact us for advice, or to find out more about how to get involved or to support our work.
We also support business development and training and offer a wide range of opportunities.
We are delighted to be working in partnership with these signatories to deliver on the ambitions set out in the Civic University Agreement.
Each signatory plays a key role in securing a sustainable and prosperous future for our city, county and people within it.
If you would like to find out more about the University and its Civic University Agreement, please do get in touch.
You can contact us at civic@derby.ac.uk and follow our Civic team on Twitter @Derby_Civic .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-stories:
The University of Derby is a place where you can live your dream, where you can realise your vision for your future.
It's a place where you can truly be yourself and where you can take your passion and talent and use them to create a better world.
Maya had big ambitions, and coming to Derby helped her renew her confidence and get her career goal to be a lawyer back on track.
Lewis' interest in the media has taken him from home in Langley Mill, to studying at the University of Derby and now working at BBC Radio in London.
Lauren Sowter couldn’t see where her future lay.
Then she discovered Derby and reset her route entirely.
Now she's on track for a first-class degree and has the next stage of her career lined up.
Deciding when the time is right to study as a mature student is a hugely personal decision.
Having raised and supported a family, Clearing provided Claire Brown with the most immediate path towards a career in Adult Nursing.
Tamzin believes everything happens for a reason.
She likes to stay open to opportunities.
But what she really likes is pursuing her career, and making a difference in people’s lives along the way.
Sile Sibanda didn’t want to miss out on the uni experience.
During her time at Derby, she embraced every opportunity.
Now as a graduate, she uses her voice hosting BBC radio, and in performing poetry.
Photography graduates Rachel Powell and Dariusz Szwedo quit their cosy, full-time jobs to strike out on their own.
Together.
And now they are putting all the skills they have learned into practice with their thriving company, Studio No 74.
Charley realised she was on a path her heart wasn't and changed direction to pursue her passion for motorsport.
Now she's embracing both the theory and practical side of her course and loving it.
Jessica Lucas's friends have always believed in her ability.
Jessica wasn't so sure.
Particularly when her A-level grades were lower than she had hoped for.
But her friends encouraged her to go to university – and now she has found the self-belief she was missing.
There is no question.
Omar Soomro is living the dream.
He graduated from our Film Production course last year and he has already spent six months working as a camera trainee on Netflix’s acclaimed series Sex Education.
Dan Jellicoe is thriving through all the connections he is making.
He’s recently spent the weekend at Brands Hatch racing circuit working on a live stream for an outside broadcast company.
And he’s done so much more.
Charlotte Evans came to university with a completely pragmatic approach to learning.
Then she found a gap in her knowledge.
And she started exploring it.
And now she is completely and utterly in love.
With finance.
Mohika Shankar came to Derby from India to turn her passion into her career.
And she found more than good grades: she got to know herself.
Coming to university was a big step for Chloe Twigg.
She’d spent the first 18 years of her life in a little farmhouse in the middle of a field in Oxfordshire.
Moving to a city, any city, seemed a daunting prospect.
Now, she’s a Fashion Design graduate working with global names in motorcycle racing.
A moment of inspiration changed Kate Henry's life.
Now, as a newly qualified nurse, she is on the front line.
And she's using her creativity to inspire the next generation of nurses.
Getting together on a project in their second year changed the lives of Film Production students Josh, Ben, Odhran and James.
Just a year after they finished their degree, they are running their own production company full-time – with a growing reputation for their work.
A dream of one day running her own interiors business is what motivates Jessica Boateng.
Discovering her African heritage through textiles and a bursary to support diversity in the industry are helping her build the skills to take her there.
For Tom Berrington, university has been about the opportunities.
The link between education and real-world experience has allowed him to develop his skills – and his employability.
Every day, Jack Holcombe sets himself a target.
And it’s always the same: to bring a sense of energy, excitement and joy to the people around him.
They could be his friends or the people he meets through his course or on work experience.
Oscar Quick is an artist, a creator, a musician, a songwriter, a journalist.
He has become the person he was always meant to be.
But it has not been an easy journey.
Sometimes you’ve got to take that leap.
Barbora took one - to come from the Czech Republic to Derby.
It was her dream to study in the UK and she found the courage and belief in herself to do it.
Respect for others, kindness and helping those around him are the ideals that drive Toby Arnold.
They are values he carries with him in his determination to become a police officer.
University has been a personal journey for Arvin Johal.
And he's got the balance right.
He is taking every opportunity that comes his way and achieving firsts in his academic studies.
Moving away from home for the first time can be a challenge.
That first day at university can be a bit overwhelming.
You’re in new surroundings, you don’t know anybody.
Now imagine home is 7,000 miles away.
Meet Sam Chikowore.
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, his goal was to become England football manager.
Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid.
And his students are helping.
Jamie Thrasivoulou is an inspiration.
Anyone who has seen him perform We Are Derby from the centre circle in front of a packed Pride Park Stadium will agree.
Jamie is a poet.
And a writer and a storyteller.
And he’s passionate about taking poetry and creativity to places it might not normally go.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/business-management-courses/international-business-ai-bsc-hons:
BSc (Hons)
In collaboration with Rolls-Royce
- Call 01332 592025 or complete our online form
Study options
Full-time: 2 years accelerated degree
UK fee
£11,440 per year (2025/26)
International fee
£20,280 per year (2025/26)
UCAS points
See Clearing for details
UCAS code
N1AI
Start date
September
Your study will be boosted by case studies, live briefs and guest lectures provided by Rolls-Royce and other organisations to put the skills you learn into practice, allowing you to evaluate and develop solutions in a real-world environment.
You will have the opportunity to visit Rolls Royce for immersive experiences to gain a valuable insight into the world of business.
An applied project will run across your second year, so you will graduate with a wealth of demonstrable business experience and industry contacts ready to launch your graduate career.
As well as developing your technical skills, we also put emphasis on your intellectual growth.
We aim to develop your ability to continually learn and relearn as AI technologies evolve.
As an applied university, we aim to align your experience to industry and prepare you for how the world of work will look in the future.
By integrating AI with international business, we aim to develop the skills you will need to thrive in global markets where traditional practices are no longer sufficient.
This degree is an accelerated degree designed to push you out of your comfort zone.
It will be an intense, immersive experience over two years, and you will emerge as an innovative, resilient and future-focused graduate.
If you are looking for a more traditional delivery method, you may be interested in our BSc (Hons) International Business Management .
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Our teaching methods will be varied, interactive and engaging and designed to develop the skills you will need for the future.
You will take part in:
Varied assessments methods are used across the programme, such as:
Programme Leader
Dr Mustabsar Awais is a Senior Lecturer in Financial Economics at the University of Derby, with extensive experience in teaching, research, and academic development.
View full staff profile →
Head of Derby International Business School
Head of Derby Business School
Senior Lecturer in Economics
Dr Doyin Babajide is an economist, enthusiastic about research and keen on professional networking.
Her role within the College of Business, Law and Social Sciences spans the full range of academic activities from teaching at all level...
Dr Sayantan Ghosh Dastidar joined the University of Derby as a Lecturer in Economics in January 2016.
Before joining here, he was working as a Research Assistant at the University of Huddersfield.
Currently, he is the Programme Leader ...
Senior Lecturer in Accounting and Finance
Darren Byrne is Programme Leader for the BA (Hons) Business Accounting and Finance at the University of Derby.
Darren teaches on a number of modules that help students to produce Consultancy Reports for real organisations who are looki...
Early Career Academic - Business, Economic and Social Policy
Dr Hassam Waheed is an Early Career Academic in Business, Economic and Social Policy.
He specialises in Behavioural and Experimental Economics with a research interest in applying behavioural insights to improve financial lit...
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey.
This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience.
Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential.
This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options.
These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths.
At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported.
Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework.
Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course.
These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges.
In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Studying this programme will offer you a unique skill set that will open doors to various dynamic and high-growth career paths.
You will graduate with a range of practical business and thought leadership skills designed for the future needs of businesses, making you well placed for a range of graduate roles such as:
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
96% of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5 for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87% of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning.
You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions.
We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances.
Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student.
This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer.
We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
£11,440 per year
N/A
£20,280 per year
Please look at our application deadlines before you apply.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications.
It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course.
It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date.
Please check your individual course page for further details.
There's still time to apply for September 2025.
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
The quickest and easiest way to apply is through our online application portal.
If you'd like support with your application, you can contact one of our trusted local representatives.
If you're currently living in the UK and applying for a full-time undergraduate course, we recommend using UCAS.
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm.
Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.
Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
International Business Management BSc (Hons)
International Business Management with Placement Year BSc (Hons)
Business Management with Placement Year BA (Hons)
Finance and Technology BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2025/university-derby-open-house:
12 August 2025
Students are being invited to experience university life this summer before making their application decisions.
Those still undecided about which university to go to this September can visit the University of Derby’s Open House events to learn more about what it has to offer.
Visitors can tour the University’s industry-standard facilities, speak with student services and admissions teams, and explore the award-winning halls of residence.
The first Open House event takes place at the University of Derby’s Kedleston Road site on Results Day – Thursday, August 14 – with visitors able to attend anytime between 11am-5pm.
Sessions will continue throughout August giving prospective students plenty of opportunities to visit.
Dates and times are as follows:
Helen Mercado, Head of Admissions at the University of Derby, said:
“If you’re searching for a university place or considering Clearing, then visiting our campus is a great way to see if the University of Derby is the right fit for you.
“The Open House events are an informal way to get to know Derby better, speak to staff and current students, and get answers to your questions about courses and student life.”
The University of Derby is A Top 10 UK University and is ranked second for employability and course quality by Uni Compare 2026.
It was awarded Gold in the prestigious Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023, recognising outstanding student experience and outcomes.
Helen added:
“We look forward to welcoming visitors to the University of Derby during the busy Clearing period.
“There has never been a better time to visit Derby, and we hope that those coming along to our Open House events will be inspired by the wealth of opportunities available at the University of Derby.”
Book your place

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2025/vision-for-new-business-school-building-shared-with-alumni-at-key-event:
7 August 2025
Leaders from the University of Derby’s alumni community, together with key supporters and partners, were given an opportunity to find out more about The Cavendish Building – soon to be the new home of Derby International Business School.
The event, held at Peckwash Mill – a former 13th-century water-driven corn mill and paper mill – offered guests a chance to learn more about the £75m seven-storey business school building, which is set to open next month.
Hosted by David Boutcher MBE, Deputy Chair of the University of Derby Business School Council, and Professor Keith McLay , Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the University, the event also highlighted the University’s  Opening Doors campaign, which is designed to create new opportunities for students and alumni, as well as the wider region and beyond.
Professor Keith McLay said:
“The University of Derby is at the forefront of industry engagement, research excellence, and transforming lives.
We are especially proud of The Cavendish Building – the future home of Derby International Business School – which marks a bold new chapter for our institution.
“Sharing these exciting plans with our alumni and key supporters is a vital step in that journey.
“Our students are at the heart of everything we do, and our alumni community stands as a testament to the strength of the University.
Their achievements inspire the next generation and play a crucial role in shaping our future, and we look forward to continuing to work collectively in the years ahead.”
The Cavendish Building will further deepen the University’s links between businesses and international industry, as well as servicing as an incubator for entrepreneurial ventures, offering mentoring, workshops and start-up resources.
With a creativity lab, an extended reality suite, trading floor, and a Harvard-style lecture theatre, The Cavendish Building will also provide a space where students can learn from inspirational businesses, work on live briefs and real consultancy projects.
Dr Nicola Lynch , Head of Derby International Business School, also spoke at the event.
She said:
“At Derby International Business School, we are doing something truly special.
We are creating a blueprint for how education and enterprise can come together – not just to react to the future, but to lead it.
“We are building partnerships, fostering innovation, and preparing our students to tackle the big challenges facing the world today including sustainability, digital transformation, economic resilience, and social responsibility.
“Our students will work in roles and industries that don’t even exist yet.
They will be asked to solve problems we can’t yet see.
It is our collective responsibility to make sure they are ready – not only with knowledge, but with confidence, adaptability, and a deep sense of purpose.”
David Boutcher MBE added:
“It was a pleasure to host this event, and to inform our supporters and alumni of the exciting plans that the University of Derby has for its new business school building.
“We are determined to open doors not just for our students and alumni but also for industry and business.
At the University of Derby, we are putting industry needs at the very heart of both our teaching and our research, and our goal is clear: to be a University for Industry.
“We are already collaborating with some fantastic companies and together, we are creating new pathways to success.”
Find out more about Derby International Business School

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2025/students-help-derby-county-players-get-match-fit-for-the-new-championship-season:
The squad, including captain Ebou Adams and new signing Carlton Morris, visited the University of Derby’s Human Performance Unit where they underwent a series of tests to ensure they are fully prepared for the start of the new Championship campaign, which begins on August 9.
This involved students and staff members conducting cardiac screening, blood tests, eye tests and dental assessments.
Students Cy Roach and Alice Kemp – who graduated from the University this month – supported with the exercise tests.
Cy, who will return to Derby in September to study for a Masters in Applied Sport and Exercise Science , said:
“It has been a fantastic experience to work closely with professional athletes so that I could apply what I have learned at the University of Derby to a real-world situation.
“I joined the University of Derby on a sports scholarship and have been a part of the GB American Football team, and I have really enjoyed my time here.
I’m looking forward to returning to Derby in September, to study further.”
For Alice, she explained how the experience will help her as she prepares to study for a MSc in Applied Sport and Exercise Science in September.
“Throughout my course, I've had the opportunity to work with athletes involved in a variety of sports.
“The session with Derby County was focused on recording baseline measures that the players can work on throughout the season, seeing how far they can safely push their bodies.
“I have loved my time at the University of Derby, and I can’t wait to return in September to enhance my learning.
I initially felt anxious about leaving my home in Lincoln, but Derby is a welcoming environment with great sports courses and excellent facilities.”
Professor Mark Faghy , Professor in Clinical Exercise Science at the University of Derby, who led the organisation and delivery of the testing said:
“Our purpose-built facilities, including our sports science labs and teaching laboratories, enable mass testing at a high level that we have performed with the Derby County squad.
“It is an amazing opportunity for our staff and undergraduate students to be involved in.
Industry engagement is a key part of our teaching at the University of Derby.
By taking an applied learning approach, we provide students invaluable experience working with professional athletes and sports clubs.
“This opportunity also provided Derby County with valuable data and insights needed to help create programmes for each player ahead of the new season.”
As well as collaborating with Derby County, the University has recently worked with Burton Albion FC , Buxton FC and elite swimming club Derby Excel.
Andy Hooton , Head of School of Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby, added:
“Our state-of-the-art Human Performance Unit provides expert sport science services to sports clubs and individual athletes from beginners to elite performers.
“Partnering with Derby County Football Club throughout their preseason programme is just one example of the immersive opportunities available to our academic staff and students at the University of Derby.
“Experiences like this deliver real-world exposure to high performance athletes in a rigorous, professional environment – providing students with invaluable insight and applied learning, ready for their chosen careers.”
Find out more about Sport and Exercise Science

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2025/university-of-derby--buxton-launches-to-continue-legacy-of-further-education-in-the-town:
1 August 2025
From 1 August 2025, the University of Derby’s further education and skills provision will be known as University of Derby – Buxton , marking a new chapter in the institution’s long-standing commitment to delivering life-changing education in the region.
This change follows the transfer of the Leek campus to Newcastle & Stafford Colleges Group (NSCG) which takes place today.
Since 2012, the University of Derby has delivered a diverse range of post-16 study programmes across its campuses via Buxton & Leek College.
Today’s transition represents a natural evolution, with the Buxton campus continuing to deliver further education as part of the University’s Institute of Education & Skills.
Professor Keith McLay , Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Derby, said:
“We are proud of Buxton & Leek College’s contribution to education over the past decade.
“Now, University of Derby – Buxton will allow us to build on that foundation, ensuring we are fully aligned with the Government’s place-based national higher-level skills agenda and can meet our commitment to skills needs in North Derbyshire.
“This change provides an opportunity to consolidate our regional presence and support the seamless progression from further to higher education, allowing learners continued access to quality resources and teaching.
“We remain committed to delivering education that meets the skills needs of local industries and supports social mobility, while presenting our offer under a clear and recognisable institutional identity.”
The University of Derby and NSCG have worked collaboratively to ensure a smooth transition, with both organisations optimistic about the positive impact on learners across Staffordshire and North Derbyshire.
For further information please contact pressoffice@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2025/nursing-lecturer-conquers-mount-everest-as-part-of-summit-challenge:
29 July 2025
Rowena Rowberry has added Mount Everest, the highest peak in the world, to her list of mountains she has tackled in the past year.
This marked number four in her challenge to scale the highest mountain in each of the seven continents.
As part of a group of two climbers and two Sherpas, Rowena made it to the summit from basecamp in four days, while the entire expedition took a total of eight weeks.
She began her mountain challenge in 2024 to demonstrate how the personal attributes of being a nurse can be channelled into achieving incredible outcomes, and to inspire her students.
Rowena, who worked on an Accident & Emergency ward during the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, said:
“Until January 2024, I had never even dreamed of climbing a mountain.
“My personal circumstances changed, and I needed a challenge.
Climbing Kilimanjaro seemed like the perfect fit.
“The resilience I have gained from my nursing career has helped with the challenge.
I find that training for a climb gives me structure, and that the challenge helps with the physical and mental demands of nursing."
Rowena has shared her Everest adventures with students at the University of Derby , who were not initially aware of her plans to scale one of the highest mountains in the world.
She said that climbing Mount Everest left her “battered and bruised”, and “mentally and physically exhausted”, but would encourage others to challenge themselves too.
“I didn’t tell my students at first; I think I was in denial.
However, they’re all very proud of my achievements and I hope that in doing this challenge, I can inspire them too.
“There is so much that I have been through in my nursing career, and I don’t think I would have been able to do this if I hadn’t had some of the qualities nursing has given me.”
While showcasing the resilience of nurses, Rowena is also raising money for the Royal College of Nursing Foundation as she plans to tackle Puncak Jaya in Indonesia, Denali in Alaska, and Mount Vinson in Antarctica.
Dr Denise Baker , Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean of the College of Health, Psychology and Social Care at the University of Derby, said:
“We are incredibly proud of the achievements of Rowena, and her commitment to shining a light on nursing as a profession.
“Nursing is an extremely rewarding career.
It takes determination, resilience and heart and Rowena has demonstrated this.
She is a fantastic ambassador for the University of Derby.”
Nursing at the University of Derby is ranked in the Top 10 for student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2026 .
There are many routes available to starting a profession in nursing, with the options to study online or on campus.
Find out more about nursing at the University of Derby

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news:
The keys to The Cavendish Building, the new state-of-the-art home of Derby International Business School, have been officially handed over ahead of its opening this September.
A free learning course delivered by an AI-powered Digibot on WhatsApp has been created by researchers to make learning more accessible and improve financial literacy.
A former Lord Lieutenant and an ex-Premier League footballer are among those to receive an Honorary Degree from the University of Derby later this month.
The University of Derby was crowned a double winner in two categories of a national award that recognises successful individuals and initiatives aimed at widening access to higher education.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/find-us:
Find out the best way to get to our Derby Campus.
You can get here by bus, car, train, bike or on foot.
And our network of Unibuses are free for University of Derby staff and students t...
Our Chesterfield site is located very close to the station and town centre bus stops.
Find out how to get there.
Find out the best way to get to the Enterprise Centre from your location.
Our two campuses are located in the centre of the UK and are easily accessible by car and public transport.
Enter your postcode and select a campus to get directions, which will open in a new tab.
You can use our map to find our sites in Derby and Chesterfield.
Open up the "Main sites" list to highlight the sites on the map.
As part of the University of Derby, University of Derby - Buxton provides further education and some university-level courses.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/contact-us:
University of Derby Kedleston Road Derby DE22 1GB
T: +44 (0)1332 590500
Directions to the Derby Campus (main sites)
University of Derby St Helena Sheffield Road Chesterfield S41 7LL
T: +44 (0)1246 210202
Directions to Chesterfield
Submit your enquiry using our enquiry form .
Alternatively, you can reach us using the details below:
T: (0)1332 591044
T: (0)1332 529009 E: international@derby.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1332 591044 E: study@derby.ac.uk
Book your Open Day
UK enquiries
T: (0)1332 591167 E: askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
International enquiries
T: +44 (0)1332 594000 E: udolenquiries@derby.ac.uk
Online learning enquiry form
If you have a general research enquiry or require more information about applying for an MPhil/PhD, please get in touch.
If you wish to enquire about a research/business collaboration, we would also love to hear from you.
Submit a research enquiry
Contact our dedicated Business Enquiries team:
Enterprise Centre Bridge Street Derby DE1 3LD
T: +44 (0)800 001 5500 E: businessgateway@derby.ac.uk
Business enquiry form
T: +44 (0)1332 591891 / +44 (0)1332 592032
T: +44 (0)1332 591109 E: security@derby.ac.uk
Lost property
Buxton & Leek College provides further education and university level courses.
Enquiry channels are open Monday to Thursday 8.45am to 5pm and Friday 8.45am to 4.30pm:
T: +44 (0)800 074 0099 E: enquiries@blc.ac.uk
Travelling to Buxton & Leek College
E: tickets@derbytheatre.co.uk T: +44 (0)1332 593939
For contact information regarding other enquiries, please visit the Derby Theatre website .
For enquiries regarding accommodation and Derbyshire Student Residences Limited (DSRL), please visit our Accommodation pages .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/events:
Catch up with all the latest events taking place at the University of Derby: talks, seminars, conferences, Open Days, exhibitions and more.
Whether you're interested in an undergraduate or postgraduate course, Open Days are the perfect way to get to know us better and see what it's really like to study here at Derby.
All the latest Graduation information plus highlights from past events.
These are our upcoming events for business people, most of which are free to attend.
They include conferences and networking events, business advice workshops, and public lectures.
Visit one of our exhibitions to see inspiring and challenging work from our students, graduates and staff, as well as emerging UK and international talent.
Browse through our upcoming events aimed at graduates or soon-to-be graduates, including graduation ceremonies, recruitment fairs and careers workshops.
Never stop learning: come to one of our upcoming talks, public lectures or conferences, led by academic experts from right across our University.
Sign up for one of our free webinars to find out more about on-campus and online learning and the courses we offer.
It could be the start of an amazing journey.
Hear about our latest research and contribute to the debate.
Our research events encourage collaboration between experts, practitioners, students and others, to help advance and share knowledge.
If you sign up for our newsletter, we'll send you all the latest news on upcoming events.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/blog:
Tips and personal advice from University of Derby students on making friends, managing studies, and getting the most out of your first year.
Posted: 20 August 2025
Posted: 15 July 2025
Here are some top tips on making that all important call on results day and how to make a good impression when going through Clearing.
Posted: 11 July 2025
Advice from the University of Derby's Secretary and Registrar ahead of Results Day 2025.
Posted: 24 June 2025
Mark Gilman, Professor of Economics and expert on SME growth and Human Resource Management, shares his research-backed knowledge on how SMEs can boost productivity and accelerate growth sustainably.
Posted: 13 June 2025
Professor of Nursing at the University of Derby, responds to an article calling for a paradigm shift in how we include families and informal carers in the care and recovery of their loved ones.
This critical debate is timely given the recent publication of the economic cost of Acquired Brain Injury by UKABIF within the 'Brain Injury Awareness' campaign Week.
Posted: 20 May 2025

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/jobs:
Choose a career at the University of Derby and you'll be part of an energetic, innovative team dedicated to inspiring learners and making a positive impact in the East Midlands region
Challenging, interesting and constantly changing, the University of Derby is an extraordinary place to learn and an incredibly rewarding place to work.
Learn more about working at Derby Learn more about working at Derby
Learn how to increase your chances of making a successful application when choosing a career at the University of Derby.
Find out more about making an application Find out more about making an application
Our combined higher and further education offering is spread over our campuses in Derby, Chesterfield and Buxton.
Our office hours are Monday – Thursday from 8.30am - 5pm and Friday 8.30am - 4.30pm.
You can contact us on 01332 593099 or by email at recruitment@derby.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/press:
The University of Derby News Blog brings together academic comment on topics from Harry Potter to Empty Nest Syndrome – all for media to use.
Read the latest edition of our magazine online
If you have a media enquiry about the University or the work of our academics, find out how we can help.
Our Annual Impact Report takes a look back at the University's successes over the 2023-24 academic year.
These articles were originally published on theguardian.com as part of the University of Derby and Guardian Labs, 'Future Focused: the University of Derby Seminar series' campaign.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/staff:
Showing 1 - 10 of 949 results
Aaisha is a Lecturer in Computer Science in the College of Science and Engineering at the University of Derby.
In 2020, she served at the Department of Computer Science, Seoul National University of Science and Technology (South Korea) as a postdoctoral (research) Professor.
As a Lecturer on the pre-registration BSc Nursing Programme, Beth supports students with learning, teaching and assessment activities and is based at the St Helena's campus, Chesterfield.
Beth qualified as an adult nurse in 2005 and joined the university in 2019, following a varied worldwide nursing career.
I am a Senior Lecturer at the School of Computing and Engineering, College of Science and Engineering, University of Derby, England.Before joining UoD, I worked at Aberystwyth University.
Previously, I served as an assistant professor at the
Adam is a Chartered Physiotherapist with particular interests in Sports Injury Rehabilitation and Prehabilitation.
During his time at Derby University, he has been involved in the design, development and validation of a number of degree programmes (both undergraduate and postgraduate).
I am a lecturer and researcher within the Institute of Education with 15 years of experience in secondary education.
During my teaching career I taught ages 11 - 18 and held middle and senior leadership positions, including Pastoral and Inclusion
Adam is an Associate Professor of Electroacoustics.
He is programme leader on our MSc Audio Engineering.
His research focuses on analysis, modelling, and wide-area spatiotemporal control of low-frequency sound reproduction and reinforcement.
Adam Simcock is a Senior Lecturer in Education and Programme Lead for the iQTS programmes.
His fields of research and teaching interest are around Education for Sustainability, Global Citizenship, and International and Comparative Education.
Adam also has 14 years experience in teaching and leadership in Secondary education.
Adem Peach is a qualified Art Psychotherapist who works across the Creative Expressive Therapies Bachelors programme and MA Art Psychotherapy programme at the University of Derby.
Adetutu is a postgraduate research student within the College of Business, Law and Social Sciences.
Martin Adlington is the Head of Civil Engineering, Construction Management and Quantity Surveying, Programme Leader, Senior Lecturer, Assessor and External Examiner with significant experience in all aspects of learning, development and education over 18 years.
Find programme leaders, lecturers, researchers, technicians, directors and managers across all of our sites and campuses.
Use our University staff search to find out about our staff, their teaching responsibilities, professional interests, research interests, qualifications, membership of professional bodies, experience in industry and their recent publications and conferences.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/organisation:
The University of Derby is a modern university with a modern outlook.
Everything we do is driven by delivering excellence and opportunities for our students, our staff and our region.
We are a first-choice University for students who want a caring, aspirational environment where they can equip themselves for the career they choose.
Find information about our departments, our colleges and our outreach programmes.
Working in partnership with other institutions is fundamental to the way in which the University promotes participation in higher and further education and contributes to regional economic growth.
The governing body of the University of Derby and the board of directors of the company are known as the Governing Council.
Find out the primary responsibilities exercised by the Governing Counci...
Our honorary awards give formal recognition to individuals whose activities and achievements the University wishes to honour.
This page contains information relating to our registration with the Office for Students (OfS), including our Student Protection Plan, Access and Participation Plan and Degree Outcomes State...
Learn more about the Office of the Vice-Chancellor, including members of the Vice-Chancellor's Executive.
Policies that are specific to the University's Corporate Governance arrangements: Code of Ethics - Fundraising and Donations; Governance Effectiveness Review - 2015; External Speakers P...
Statistics relating to the students attending the University of Derby.
The data is obtained from HESA (Higher Education Statistics Agency).

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/about/data-governance:
When you request information from the University of Derby we are governed by various pieces of legislation.
Here is an overview of the main pieces of law we work to.
The Data Protection Act 2018 and the UK GDPR (effective from 1 January 2021) are designed to help protect your personal data by setting out rules and conditions which we must follow when collecting and using this data.
They aim to ensure that you know where your data is held, what it is used for, and who it is shared with.
These regulations give you certain rights, including access to your personal data, and ensure that legislation keeps pace with the ever-changing technology around us.
For more information, please visit the ICO website .
Data Protection
Data Protection Privacy Policy
Whether you are a student, member of staff or an organisation, your privacy is important to us.
Our privacy notice(s) aim to advise you on the way we look after your data at various stages, including your rights to access this data.
Privacy Notices
With cyber attacks ever evolving, to threaten organisations and individuals, cyber security is more important than ever.
Cyber security
The Freedom of Information (FOI) Act 2000 gives a general right of access to all types of 'recorded' information held by public authorities (no matter how the information is held).
We maintain a publication scheme, which sets out the categories of information we are required to publish.
FOI requests must be made in writing.
They can be emailed to foi@derby.ac.uk
Alternatively requests can be posted to:
Mr James Fussell Legal Governance and Assurance Services University of Derby Kedleston Road Derby DE22 1GB
Freedom of Information Requests
FOI and EIR Policy
The Environmental Information Regulations 2004 give a general right of access to all types of 'recorded' environmental information held by public authorities.
Environmental information covered by the regulations includes the state of the air, atmosphere, water, soil, land, and landscape, as well as factors affecting the above elements such as substances, energy, noise, radiation or waste, emissions, discharges into the environment.
Environmental information regulations
Records Management is governed by a number of laws and regulations, several of which concern Data Protection and Freedom of Information.
Records management is the practice of maintaining records safely from the time they are created for University business activities, during retention and up to their eventual disposal.
This includes classifying, storing, securing, the destruction and in some cases archival preservation of records.
A record can be on paper, digital or a physical object.
Find out more about our data protection policies
If you have a question about how we use your personal information, please email us at gdpr@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/about/accessibility:
The accessibility statement on this page explains how accessible the University of Derby website is and how we audit it.
As a University we operate a range of systems which will each have their own Accessibility Statement.
Read our other accessibility statements
This website is run by the University of Derby.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website and are committed to ensuring digital accessibility for people with disabilities.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We have also made the website text easy to understand.
We were third in the January 2025 Silktide Index of 155 UK university websites with a score of 98%.
The monthly index is based on automated tests carried out on a random selection of 125 of our 10,000 pages for accessibility against Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.1.
Our overall Silktide accessibility score for the full site is 97%, scoring at 97.2% for level A, 97.0% for AA and 94.9% for AAA.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
AbilityNet is a UK charity that exists to change the lives of disabled people by helping them to use digital technology at work, at home or in education.
We are using the following measures to ensure accessibility of the University of Derby website :
We tested our website for accessibility during the design process, for example with a partially sighted student, and we carry out similar testing on the live site.
We know some parts of this website aren't fully accessible:
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
Please contact us using our accessibility support form (linked below) if you:
Submit an accessibility support request
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in two working days.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the accessibility regulations.
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).
The University of Derby is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
There are a few instances where keyboard-only users or users of assistive technology may experience an unexpected focus order when they open up hidden content or modal dialogs.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 2.4.3 (focus order).
We are working with AbilityNet to resolve this issue.
There are a few instances where keyboard-only users may not be able to access all the content, for instance within the Virtual Open Days area and in our privacy preference centre modal window.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 2.1.1 (keyboard).
We are looking at a solution for this issue.
Keyboard-only users cannot 'skip to main content' on our Virtual Open Days pages.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 2.4.1 (bypass blocks).
This content was developed by an external supplier.
There are a few instances on our Virtual Open Days where two adjacent links point to the same destination.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
Some of our PDFs and other documents published after 23 September 2018 - or published before that date but essential for administrative processes - don't fully meet accessibility requirements.
We are working through these documents to ensure their content will be accessible or that an accessible alternative is available.
Some error messages on forms are not associated with their form controls, which means some assistive technology users may not fully understand the content.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.3.1 (information and relationships).
Some title elements, for instance on search listings, are not marked up as headings or with the correct heading level, which means some assistive technology users may not fully understand the content.
There is some loss of content and functionality at 400% browser zoom on smaller screens, for instance in the home page course search.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.10 (reflow).
There is insufficient colour contrast on focused form elements.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.11 (non-text contrast).
Pages with search filters reload on checkbox selection, which may be unexpected behaviour for some users.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 3.2.2 (on input).
Some assistive technology users may not perceive the purpose and operation of some accordion controls.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.2 (name, role, value).
Some assistive-technology users may not perceive the purpose and operation of suggestions displayed when they enter information into a search field as they are not programmatically determined.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.2 (name, role, value).
Some interactive components, such as the close icon button on our section menu, lack an accessible role and name and assistive-technology users may not perceive their purpose and operation.
A number of interactive components, such as the 'In this section' menu, do not declare their expanded or collapsed state and assistive-technology users may not perceive their purpose and operation.
The currently active page in a multi-page list is not programmatically determined and this may confuse or mislead users of assistive technology.
Some visually hidden content, for instance in our course modules, is exposed to assistive technology users.
There are a number of parsing (coding) issues, including elements with duplicate attributes, which can affect accessibility technology.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.1 (parsing).
Most of our new videos (produced after 23 September 2020) do not have audio descriptions.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.5 (Audio Description (Prerecorded)).
We have assessed the provision of audio description at this time as a disproportionate burden.
Please see the following section.
New videos (produced after 23 September 2020) will have captions and transcripts but, for now, they will not be accompanied with synchronised audio descriptions as standard.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.5 (Audio Description (Prerecorded).
This is based on a number of factors, including: the large number of videos produced; the changeable nature of the content; and the resource and/or costs attached to production.
This decision follows a review of audio description suppliers and our ability to create audio description ourselves.
We will periodically review the market for audio description services to assess our ability to introduce audio description on our videos at a later date.
In the meantime, if the closed captions and extended transcripts currently provided do not meet an individual’s accessibility requirements, an audio-described version can be made available by request for a specified video.
Please complete the accessibility support form , clearly stating for which video the audio description is required.
We will aim to produce the audio description file within 15 working days of receiving the request.
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents don't meet accessibility standards.
For example, they may not be marked up so they are accessible to a screen reader.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.2 (name, role value).
The accessibility regulations don’t require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential for active administrative processes.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
Some of our older videos don't have accurate edited captions or transcripts.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.1 (audio-only and video-only pre-recorded), 1.2.2 (captions pre-recorded), 1.2.3 (audio description or media alternative pre-recorded) and 1.2.5 (audio description pre-recorded).
The regulations do not apply to recorded videos published before 23 September 2020.
However, while these videos are not subject to the legislation, we have carried out an audit of all our videos and have begun a process of updating captions and adding full transcripts.
Any new videos we publish will have edited captions and transcripts.
Our live video streams don't have captions.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.4 (captions live).
We don’t plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
However, we will add captions when we embed an edited version of the video streams on our website.
Our online maps, for instance in our Virtual Open Days area, are not fully accessible for keyboard-only users.
Some of our maps do not provide sufficient contrast for visually impaired users.
Our online maps are exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
This is third-party content that is neither funded nor developed by us, nor under our control.
The colour contrast of the text on the Discover Uni statistics panels does not have sufficient colour contrast for visually impaired users.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.3 (contrast (minimum)).
Also there is no way to control the animation within the Discover Uni panels.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 2.2.2 (pause, stop, hide).
The Discover Uni panels are exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
Text within forms does not respond on text spacing.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.12 (text spacing).
The text styling within forms is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
This is third-party content that is neither funded nor developed by us, nor under our control.
Users are unable to use a keyboard to usefully access the Messenger "Hi!
How can we help you?" chat box.
It is possible to tab to the chat box but there is no indication that it has focus.
Also, the Messenger frames do not have useful title attribute values.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 2.4.1 (bypass blocks) and 4.1.2 (name, role, value).
And, when the page is resized to 400%, the Messenger chat box and button obscure content on the page.
It is possible to remove the chat box by clicking on the “-” but not the logo/button.
This doesn't meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.4.10 (reflow).
The Messenger platform is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) define three levels of conformance: level A, level AA and level AAA.
Although our goal is WCAG 2.1 Level AA conformance, we have also applied some level AAA success criteria:
This website was last tested on 9 March 2022 by the Central Digital and Data Office.
This involved a review of seven pages, using manual checks and automated tests using the latest version of Axe .
All our pages are also tested each week by the Silktide platform, which makes automated checks of 10,000 pages against the W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) WCAG 2.1 accessibility standards using automated testing techniques.
A sample of the site has been tested by a visually impaired user.
We have a rolling programme of updating content in accordance with the guidelines set out by the WCAG.
This statement was prepared on 30 July, 2019.
It was last reviewed on 6 Jan, 2025.
Please see our campus accessibility guides for detailed online access guides for our campuses and sites.
We first prepared this statement on 30 July, 2019.
We are logging every change we make to this page.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/about/privacy-and-cookies:
Where you provide your name, email address or other personal information on this site (eg when you request a printed prospectus) this information is held in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018.
Specifically, personal information is never shared with any third party organisation.
If you choose not to receive further communications your personal details will only be used to respond to your enquiry.
Further details can be found within our Data Governance area.
We take appropriate measures to safeguard databases against unauthorised access.
You may request any information you believe to be stored about you (based on your use of this website) by writing to: Web Team, University of Derby, Kedleston Road, Derby DE22 1GB, UK.
Cookies are text files containing small amounts of information which are downloaded to your personal computer, mobile or other device when you visit a website.
When you return to the website it uses this cookie to 'remember' some of the things you did on the website last time, for example if you've previously ordered a prospectus from us we won't prompt you to order one again (assuming that you're using the same computer and you haven't deleted the cookie).
As you browse www.derby.ac.uk , your visit is automatically logged with information such as the browser and operating system you use, and the time of your visit.
This data is collated and used to improve the service we offer but remains anonymous.
Cookies are used in places on this site to store your preferences and to customise the content that is displayed based on this kind of information.
We have a consent system on our website that manages many of these cookies based on the consent you give us.
Please be aware that some areas of our website will not function as expected if you don't consent to the use of cookies.
Cookies do lots of different jobs and generally improve the user experience.
We don't collect any personal information like your name, date of birth, email address or address.
Most web browsers allow you to control most cookies through browser settings.
To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them, visit www.allaboutcookies.org .
Cookie Settings

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/about/governance/policies/modern-slavery-statement:
The UK Modern Slavery Act (2015) introduced restrictions and requirements for large organisations to publish a statement detailing their commitment to combating modern slavery from themselves and their supply chains.
The term modern slavery covers the use of slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour and use of human trafficking.
This also covers exploitation which includes:
You can find more information about the Modern Slavery Act on the National Archives website .
We take the subject of modern slavery extremely seriously and have a zero-tolerance approach to slavery in all forms from both ourselves and our supply chain.
We have committed to training relevant areas of the business, optimising our current procedures and policies and creating a supplier code of conduct.
Our statement describes all these areas and how we plan to contribute in the fight against modern slavery.
This statement for the University of Derby Group of Companies covers the period from 1 August 2023 to 31 July 2024.
The University of Derby is committed to working with our supply chain to acquire goods, services and works without causing harm to others.
This statement relates to the period 1 August 2023 to 31 July 2024 which is the financial year of the University and is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
It sets out the steps that the University has taken in this financial year to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any of its supply chains or in any part of its own business.
Modern Slavery is a hidden crime and violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, debt bondage, child labour, forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person’s liberty by another to exploit them for personal or commercial gain and is extremely prevalent across the globe.
The Walk Free Foundation who collates The Global Slavery Index, estimates that in 2023, the number of people who were victims of modern slavery worsened to 49.6 million driven in part by the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic.
Of these, 22 million are in a forced marriage and almost 27.6 million in forced labour.
Most children reported as victims of Modern Slavery are in the 16–17 year-old age category, yet they can be of any age, including the very young.
Section 11 of the Children Act 2004 places duties on a range of organisations and individuals to ensure their functions and any services that they contract out to others are discharged having regard to the need to safeguard and promote the welfare of children.
The University is committed to safeguarding our students and vulnerable adults, improving our practices and policies both internally and throughout our supply chain, to combat modern slavery.
The University’s core business purpose is teaching, learning and research and has a student population of approximately 31,755 based in the UK and Overseas.
The total head count is approximately 2,718 employees across the University Group including its subsidiaries.
In the financial year 2023/2024, group turnover was c£219m.
The University has its main campus in Derby with a large University presence right across the city of Derby and both higher and further education provided in Buxton, Leek, and Chesterfield.
The University also has the following academic Colleges:
The University is a member of the North Eastern Universities Purchasing Consortium (NEUPC) which is a member of the UK Universities Purchasing Consortium (UKUPC).
The consortium supports collaborative procurements across the Higher Education sector and takes measures to mitigate the risk of modern slavery in its sourcing activity.
We also engage with the wider university sector through our membership with the Higher Education Purchasing Association (HEPA).
There are ties to major employers and public service providers in Derby, Derbyshire, and Staffordshire.
In addition, there are partnership arrangements in place with both UK and overseas education institutions.
The University’s approach to addressing modern slavery is embedded in all relevant University policies including Fairtrade and National Minimum Wage issues and is specifically referenced in our Procurement Policy dated January 2023 and our Procurement Strategy launched February 2024.
Our policy sets out that we are committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and to ensure that no slavery or human trafficking is taking place in any part of our business or supply chains.
The University recognises that our students may also be at risk of becoming subject to modern slavery and provides a safeguarding approach with mandatory awareness training for all staff focusing on how to spot the signs and report concerns.
Student welfare staff in the Student Union, Registry Student Services as well as in the Multi Faith centre act as a joined-up network to ensure concerns are reported and our students receive appropriate support.
The University is committed to conducting its business in a socially responsible and sustainable way, supporting SMEs, and ensuring goods and services we procure are free from modern slavery and human trafficking.
Our main supply chains fall under the following categories:
We continue to operate our practices and due diligence in relation to mitigating and managing the risk of modern slavery in our supply chains.
To support this the Procurement team, maintain checks by engaging with key strategic suppliers and manage the on-boarding of new suppliers in which a due diligence exercise is undertaken for providers wishing to trade with the University Group.
The Group works with a diverse range of suppliers, all of whom have to agree and sign up to our Supplier Code of Conduct .
Every competitive tender includes a requirement for the supplier to sign a Declaration of Modern Slavery Compliance and confirm that they will comply with Supplier Code of Conduct.
For new tenders, bidders are encouraged to sign up to NET Positives which is a Supplier Engagement Sustainability tool used by the Higher Education sector to track the actions being taken by the University’s supply chain in addressing Modern Slavery.
Whilst there have been no reported instances of Modern Slavery impacting the University’s supply chain during FY23/24, a risk-based approach will continue to be applied to the identification of priority areas that are a high risk for modern slavery and human trafficking.
A rolling programme of checks of local suppliers in key risk areas include:
What have we done so far?
Supplier review meetings held with contracted suppliers in these areas will pay particular attention to ensuring compliance with the Code.
If any instance of modern slavery or human trafficking is suspected there is a National Modern Slavery Helpline to report these concerns and the University would either report directly if appropriate or direct anyone with concerns to the Helpline.
As part of our reviews, we conduct spot checks with current suppliers in key risk areas (construction and cleaning) working collaboratively with them to ensure there are no individuals at risk of modern slavery.
These checks ensure our suppliers can provide an up-to-date modern slavery statement on request and can evidence how they manage the associated risks including how they pay those whether employed directly or via subcontractors and suppliers further down the supply chain.
All reasonable steps are mitigated to avoid the risk of slavery and does not expose the University to these unacceptable risks.
The University’s focus to modern slavery has increasingly recognised the risk as much in supplies and services delivered close to home and to our own student base as it is in global supply chains.
As a result of shift in focus in 2024, the University started working with Rebuild East Midlands a charity that exists to empower and assist survivors of modern-day slavery and human trafficking to overcome the barriers that they might face in starting a new life, free from slavery.
Rebuild East Midlands supports individuals to fully access opportunities to embrace a hope filled future and is the only charity in the region that offers holistic, long-term support to adults in Derby and Derbyshire who have experienced modern slavery, providing them with practical, emotional and community support to help them move forward with their lives.
On National Anti-Slavery Day (18th October 2024), Rebuild East Midlands joined the University to raise awareness and to encourage staff and students to sign up and become a Spot the Signs ambassador.
The campaign provides resources which can be used across the University’s social media platforms and communications channels whilst supporting others to break free from this exploitation.
As a follow up, Rebuild East Midlands delivered an online event for university staff and students about the realities of Modern Slavery in the UK.
The University has also continued to maintain the following activities to mitigate the risk of Modern Slavery:
Headline figures:
Members of the University’s Governing Council have reviewed this statement and gave its approval of the document 5 February 2025.
It was then signed on behalf of Council by the University’s Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive.
Signed by: Professor Kathryn Mitchell BSc, PhD, CPsychol Vice-Chancellor, the University of Derby

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/about/governance/policies/safeguarding:
The University of Derby's Safeguarding Policy and procedures.
Safeguarding is everybody's role and responsibility here at the University of Derby.
The University of Derby has a Safeguarding team and it is important to notify them as soon as possible, including the details you have around the individual.
A member of the team will triage your concern and take appropriate action.
We are committed to safeguarding children and adults at risk, and we respond promptly to reports.
However, these reports will only be received and responded to during the working hours of the University.
Report a concern
If there is an immediate risk to life, violence, or a crime has been or is being committed or other emergency situations, you must contact 999 immediately, and inform Security on 01332 597777 and the Designated Safeguarding Lead on 07468 743374 .
Raise a concern
Raise a concern for our students on placements, field trips or outside the UK
The University of Derby is committed to safeguarding and promoting the welfare of all our staff, students and children.
At the University of Derby, safeguarding is everybody's concern.
For Further Education (FE) students at Buxton and Leek College (BLC) and all apprentices (including Degree apprentices across BLC), check the BLC webpage.
Find out more about our commitment to the Prevent Duty
The Local Safeguarding Officers (LoSOs) provide first-line support and advice on safeguarding issues within teams around the University.
Find out how we support our community around harassment and sexual misconduct
Children on Campus Policy
Supporting our under 18 Higher Education Students
Our friendly and approachable Student Life advisers can provide information, advice and guidance about the support available to you, and signpost you to relevant services.
Have a look at other sources of support available.
We'd love to hear about your experience of our service.
Complete our quick form to let us know how we did.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/about/governance/policies/prevent:
The University of Derby, in common with all other UK universities, has a statutory duty to have due regard to the need to prevent people being drawn into terrorism.
Prevent is about supporting and protecting people who might be susceptible to being drawn into terrorism.
The University of Derby is committed to implementing practices to meet requirements under this “Prevent Duty”.
Prevent is part of the Government strategy on counter-terrorism .
Prevent seeks to stop vulnerable people being radicalised, therefore our approach is to consider Prevent as a form of safeguarding, recognising that we have a duty of care to protect vulnerable adults and children from neglect or abuse.
Our approach to safeguarding aims to be broad and we encourage anyone with concerns about the well-being of a student or member of staff to take appropriate action by reporting their concerns to the University via the cause for concern form .
We ask all members of our community to:
Notice: are you concerned about a student?
Perhaps you’ve noticed a change in behaviour; are they becoming withdrawn, or acting differently?
Maybe it’s something the student has said that’s worrying you.
Staff in front-line support roles will often be the first to notice if a student is experiencing difficulties.
Check: don’t ignore your concerns – check with others who may also have noticed something.
You could speak to the student directly, or talk to colleagues/academic tutors, to see if they share your concerns.
Share: if you are still worried about, please report your concerns via the links below.
via the options above to share your concerns and one of the team will contact you to discuss this further.
The team may be able to offer support and guidance to the student.
The University will then offer support and guidance to the student and if appropriate support them through the UK’s Prevent process, alongside University wellbeing or emotional health support.
The University of Derby is also committed to ensuring that freedom of speech within the law is secured for members of the University and visiting speakers.
However, preventing terrorism will mean challenging extremist (and non-violent) ideas that may lead to people moving from extremist groups or from extremism into terrorist-related activity.
As part of the University of Derby’s registration with the Office for Students we follow guidance and provide evidence and assessments that demonstrate that we are fulfilling the duty.
The University Governors oversee our implementation of the duty and ensure we are exercising appropriate judgements, and therefore review that evidence.
The University seeks to support the Prevent process by:
The University of Derby has a Prevent and Safeguarding team and it is important to notify them immediately with any concerns.
For full details of the team please see the Prevent/Safeguarding policy.
Raise a Prevent concern
Raise a concern at the University of Derby: Buxton.
Raise a concern for our students on placements, field trips or outside the UK.
Below is a sample of the University of Derby's Prevent Risk Assessment Action Plan 2024-2025.
For the full Action Plan, please contact studentservices@derby.ac.uk .
The Action Plan was last reviewed on 5/11/2024 in advance of the 2024-2025 academic year.
1.
Statutory guidance issued under section 29 of the Counter Terrorism and Security Act 2015 requires the University in exercising its functions to have due regard to ‘preventing people from being drawn into terrorism’; this is the Prevent duty.
2.
To comply with the Prevent duty, providers need to:
3.
The University of Derby Prevent risk assessment includes an evaluation of how well the steps recommended in the guidance and OfS Framework are being implemented at the University.
Senior management and governing bodies engagement with and understanding of institutional responsibilities in respect of Prevent under Office for Students and Ofsted (higher apprenticeships.)
The organisation fails to ensure appropriate governance and senior leadership oversight is in place in relation to Prevent.
The University has a clear understanding of the local and national risks related to extremism and radicalisation.
The organisation does not access available intelligence leading to a failure to develop a comprehensive action plan and effectively support vulnerable individuals.
Visit University of Derby - Buxton's website to find out more about their safeguarding policy.
Find out more about how we support our students.
Sexual violence, misconduct and harassment support at the University of Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/coronavirus:
These pages contain the latest information to keep our students, prospective students and staff up to date.
We will update these pages with new information and guidance in line with any announcements from government.
We welcome all our students onto campus, where you’ll have access to everything you need to thrive in your studies including practical workshops, seminars and lectures.
All our teaching will be face-to-face on campus with plenty of interactive and applied learning.
All our facilities are open.
There are no restrictions in place on our campuses or in our halls of residence, but the government has issued guidance for safer behaviours and living with Covid-19 .
If things change, and the government require us to reintroduce restrictions, we are ready to do so.
We continue with enhanced cleaning regimes across our sites to ensure a Covid-secure environment for students, staff and visitors, and have improved ventilation in indoor spaces.
If you have symptoms of a respiratory infection, such as Covid-19, and you have a high temperature or do not feel well enough to go to university or carry out normal activities, try to stay at home and avoid contact with other people, until you no longer have a high temperature (if you had one) or until you no longer feel unwell.
We strongly encourage all students to get vaccinated for Covid-19 before the start of term.
Last updated: Tuesday 21 June 2022 09:28:37

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses:
If you’ve been away from education for some time or didn’t quite achieve your college qualifications, an Access to Higher Education course will give you the confidence and skills to take t...
Are you interested in the advancement of technology and the rapid expansion of Artificial Intelligence?
Our suite of Artificial Intelligence courses will ensure you are at the forefront of this exciti...
Are you interested in the sustainable future of our social, work and living spaces?
Explore contemporary architectural issues and learn in one of only four CIAT Centres of Excellence in the world.&nbs...
Let your creative streak shine and your own personal style flourish within our talented School of Arts community.
Our experienced practitioners can share their industry connections to help you lay the...
Get ahead in your career with courses that have an excellent reputation for quality and give you a head start in fascinating, rewarding and varied careers.
Study Business at Derby and benefit from practical learning, industry links, and dual-accredited degrees.
Explore our Civil Engineering and Construction courses, combining practical experience, field trips, and hands-on learning with industry-standard equipment.
Whether you are passionate about computer science, cybersecurity, AI, computer games or IT, study at Derby and gain the skills and confidence to thrive in today’s fast-evolving tech industry.
Counselling is an extremely rewarding profession that creates a positive change to the lives of others.
Our courses build your personal and professional skills so that you are fully equipped for caree...
This course offers you a transformative educational journey, equipping you with the skills, knowledge, and ethical understanding necessary to harness the potential of dance and movement in promoting h...
Discover our English, Creative Writing and Publishing courses where you will learn from experienced writers, enhance your skills, and launch your creative career.
With exciting developments such as sustainable buildings, clean energy, electric and automatic transport, engineering will give you the ability to be innovative, creative, flexible and at the forefron...
Our Environmental Sciences courses are designed to meet the growing demand for graduates skilled in shaping innovative solutions that have a positive impact on environmental and sustainability issues.
Our programmes offer you the chance to study all aspects of events management and tourism management, from creating unforgettable visitor experiences to exploring innovative solutions in sustainable d...
Let our fashion and textiles experts help you channel your creativity into a career in the fast-paced global fashion industry.
Our film courses focus on graduate employability and get you involved with exciting practical projects that will help you establish yourself as an artist.
Our Forensic Science programmes are highly ranked and will equip you with the skills and confidence to become a forensic scientist fully prepared to investigate crime scenes, analyse evidence and pres...
Our History, International Relations and Politics courses are designed to be relevant to today’s industries, giving you a fantastic platform to launch a dynamic career in a specialism of your ch...
Gain substantial practical experience of researching and producing powerful print, radio, TV, online stories and more through our Journalism and Media courses.
Midwives are in high demand.
Study with us and take your first step into a satisfying career, where you will be able to make a positive impact every day.
The Centre for Mineral Products Professional Development delivers industry standard and globally recognised qualifications to the mineral products sector.
In partnership with the industry's profession...
Study Music and Music Production with an industry accredited course set in the context of the music industry.
Our courses are taught in dedicated music spaces that include recording studios and rehear...
Our excellent facilities, hands-on learning techniques and impressive employment rates will give you a great start towards a rewarding career in nursing.
Becoming a nurse is quite literally life-chang...
Fulfil your ambitions with a pioneering university which has consistently led the way with new approaches to occupational therapy learning.
We’ll equip you with the skills and knowledge to becom...
Join a creative photography community that is supportive in helping students shape their individual identities and styles.
Study physiotherapy with us to prepare to play an essential part of a multidisciplinary health and social care team with the clinical, leadership, digital and research skills for the future.
We offer a range of courses which will equip you with the skills and knowledge to pursue a career within the criminal justice field.A career in policing demands, skill, responsibility, leadership and ...
Study the science of human thought and behaviour with lecturers who are at the forefront of research.
Ready to make a difference in your community?
Whether you want to be a youth or social worker, family support worker or community project manager, our practical, work-focused courses will set you on t...
Recognised for our excellent teaching standards, our radiography course will lead you to a rewarding career within the dynamic field of diagnostic imaging.
Study with us and step into a career as a qu...
Our Criminology and Sociology courses will challenge you to question, analyse and seek answers about the workings of society.
Whether you want to become a sport coach, rehabilitation specialist, performance analyst or a health advisor, our applied courses will get your career off to a flying start.
Inspire children and make a difference to their lives with our Ofsted 'Outstanding' rated practical Teacher Training courses.
Learn in a professional environment at Derby where you can develop your skills in acting, devising, directing, designing, producing, stage managing, and theatre technology for a career as a profession...
Our fascinating courses will challenge and inspire you, develop you personally and professionally, and open up career opportunities where you can make a difference every day.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/courses:
Boost your career prospects and advance your existing career or embark on a new one, with our postgraduate Acoustics course designed to raise your profile as a skilled, confident and versatile employe...
Whether you're embarking on a counselling and psychotherapy career or already in practice and looking to further develop your skills in a specific area, our range of courses will help you take your ne...
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors (CIEHF), our online Ergonomics course meets their high standards and gives you the opportunity to gain graduate membership which i...
This practical MA has three pathways in Film, Documentary and Scriptwriting, so you can focus on what you’re passionate about.
You'll join a diverse range of students with interesting stories to tell ...
This unique Masters degree blends history, politics and journalism, to help you gain a better understanding of the biggest global issues of our time, such as climate change, gender equality and racism...
The MA History and Heritage programme at Derby is designed to demonstrate the value of historical and heritage-based research and practice in a variety of business and industry contexts.
Our programme is built around three key themes that reflect the principles of the UN World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) and are informed by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Open up exciting new directions for your career and research pursuits as a psychologist with our innovative Psychology and Counselling courses.
Whether you are choosing to delve deeper into the subject you love or to specialise, you can be sure that you will receive the best teaching.
Our teaching staff offer you a combination of the latest industry knowledge and academic expertise.
Across our postgraduate courses you will find lecturers who still work in their field, so have great industry connections.
Many are also active and respected researchers who are contributing to our growing reputation in this area.
Explore our subjects for your perfect course.
Your postgraduate research experience at the University of Derby is designed to help you build fundamental research skills, whether you are a motivated recent graduate or an experienced academic.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/ways-to-study/foundation-levels:
If you have a career in mind and need the qualification to get there, but don’t meet our entry requirements for a full degree, you should explore one of our foundation level courses.
You can use these courses as an alternative route if you have never had the opportunity to study at A-level/BTEC or if you have changed your career plans since studying for your last qualification.
You’ll get all the benefits of being a University of Derby student, plus extra support to help build your knowledge, skills and confidence.
We offer two different foundation routes:
If you have the enthusiasm for exploring your subject area but not all the skills needed to succeed as a student at degree level, you could consider a course with foundation year.
This is an integrated four-year course that starts by introducing you to the foundation elements of study at university.
Foundation years are offered across a range of subjects - use our course search to find one that suits your ambitions.
"I have benefited from the foundation year as it was a nice step into university after struggling with A-levels.
It also helped me prove to myself that I could do well and gaining the Dean’s Award has really boosted my confidence." Katie Alberici, BSc (Hons) Psychology with Foundation Year
Dr Ian Turner, takes us through foundation years, answering the most frequently asked questions and explaining how beneficial undertaking one can be.
Our two-year foundation degree courses with Higher National Diploma provide you with the skills needed to work in the associated industry.
Your experience will be similar to a normal degree, taught on campus by University of Derby staff, using the same facilities.
Once your course is complete, you can choose to go straight into employment or transfer onto the final year of a bachelors degree in a related subject.
These courses are identified as FdA (Foundation in Arts), FdSc (Foundation in Science), FdEng (Foundation in Engineering), and HND (Higher National Diploma).
Entry requirements for the University of Derby are specific to each of our foundation levels subjects.
Search for the course you're interested in and then look at the entry requirement information.
We'll look at any relevant qualifications and experience you already have when making a decision about your application.
Katie Alberici's A-levels didn't go as well as she had hoped.
But, driven by her passion for Psychology, she found a place on our BSc (Hons) Psychology with Foundation Year.
And from that stepping stone she has successfully progressed through our undergraduate and postgraduate courses
Discover the best of student life in Derby hand-picked by our students.
Find out more about our award-winning student accommodation available at the University of Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/january-start:
Looking for your next adventure?
Take a look at our courses available to start in January 2025.
If you'd like to get the new year off to a great start and take your first step towards a rewarding career, look no further.
Here at the University of Derby, we have a range of full-time and part-time courses starting in January.
If your ambitions have changed or if you don’t want to delay your personal development until September, our January starts give you the chance to begin your studies earlier.
It's also another way to get started if you needed more time to complete your most recent qualification.
You won't miss out on anything - you'll experience the same expert teaching team, course content, and receive the same support and benefits as students who start in September.
Plus you'll be welcomed into the new intake during January's second Freshers' week.
Many of our courses that start in January can also be studied part-time, providing you with the opportunity to broaden your skills and knowledge in a way that works for you.
If your plans have changed or you have a new career goal in mind, you can explore our undergraduate courses available to start in January.
Looking to stand out and reach the next academic level?
We have a range of postgraduate courses available to study this January.
Explore our undergraduate and postgraduate courses available to study online this January.
Get to know your future campus and book an Open Day where you can find out more about your subject, take a campus tour, explore our facilities and meet our excellent teaching staff.
After that personalised experience but can't join us at an Open Day?
Book onto a two-hour tailored tour to see our facilities and accommodation and answer any questions you may have.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/open-days:
Join us for an Open Day to see what it’s really like to study here at Derby.
Whether you’re interested in an undergraduate or postgraduate course, they’re the perfect way to get to know us better.
The best way to find out if studying at The University of Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day or Open Event.
Get a feel for the campus, tour our first-class facilities and meet our academic team.
Wondering what to expect at one of our Open Day events?
Watch our highlights video for a sneak peek.
View Open Days at Derby video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/expert-teaching:
Our expert academics and supportive tutors are here to help you develop your knowledge and achieve your best .
“At the University of Derby, we have always taken great pride in our approach to teaching and learning.
What we teach and the way we teach it is designed to ensure all our students benefit from academic challenge, outstanding facilities and relevant work experience opportunities which ensure upon graduating they are best placed to realise their goals and aspirations.
We are ambitious.
Not only in terms of what we want to achieve as a University, but what we want our graduates of the future to achieve be it locally, nationally or globally.
To this end, our pursuit of excellence in student experience, with academic rigour at its heart, will never cease.
Wherever the bar is set, our aim will be to take it higher.”
Professor Kathryn Mitchell, Vice-Chancellor
You can be confident in the high quality of our teaching.
We deliver consistently outstanding teaching, learning and outcomes for our students.
A mixture of structured sessions and independent study will ensure you build knowledge and confidence as you progress.
Structured sessions could include:
Lectures - usually in a large group, these will develop your subject knowledge.
Lectures should spark debate, posing big questions for you to think about.
You'll take notes to support your independent learning and discuss your ideas with others.
Seminars - in a smaller group, you can explore your lecture topic in more detail.
You'll undertake specific activities to help you develop your subject knowledge and understanding.
Tutorials - in smaller groups or often one to one, these are an opportunity to discuss your progress with your tutor and ask any questions you may have about your studies.
You'll work with your tutor to set and review your goals.
Guest lectures - using our great industry connections, you'll have opportunities to attend lectures given by visiting speakers.
These will give you a different perspective on your studies and career plans.
To help you get the best out of your time at Derby, you’ll be assigned a personal academic tutor who is there to support, stretch and challenge you.
They will guide you throughout your time with us and will meet with you regularly to discuss your progress and ensure you’re on track to achieve your goals.
"By working with my personal academic tutor, I was able to understand what was expected of me in much more detail, which I could then put into practice and demonstrate within my work."
Assessment methods vary between courses and may include exams, reports, essays and presentations.
You may also be required to produce pieces of work specific to your subject.
Assessments could include video or media-based assignments, placements in industry or live briefs.
See individual course pages for more information on the assessment methods for your course.
We'll help you develop all the digital and study skills you'll need to support your learning.
The Library offers a range of services, including workshops and drop-ins, as well as a wealth of online resources on topics such as planning your work, academic writing and referencing.
Our lecturers don’t just teach – many are also carrying out research, making breakthrough discoveries and developing new theories about our world.
This research will feed into your studies, putting you at the forefront of latest thinking, with opportunities in some cases for you to get involved directly.
Weronika Jedrak's postgraduate year was filled with new experiences.
She was pushed her outside of her comfort zone - which helped determine her career goals.
Trainee psychotherapist Manaal Mulla's postgraduate study has made her excited for her future in the health sector.
She has big plans.
Joanna Wilkinson has been inspired, challenged and pushed past what she thought was possible on her undergraduate degree.
Our academic staff regularly share their thoughts and ideas beyond the classroom via the University of Derby blog .
Here, Jon Burton explores technological advances in audio and lighting, Dr Mark Faghy investigates modern training methods and Dr Fiona Holland looks at the positive benefits of change.
How technological advancements have helped to drive change in audio and lighting.
Is there a 'Holy Grail’ of training programmes to make sure that we arrive at the start line in the best possible condition?
Helping people to make positive changes in all aspects of their lives.
Our Careers and Employment Service is proud to support all of our students on their journey towards their future career.
We have invested £200 million in the last ten years to ensure we have some of the best facilities in the UK, including our sports centre, forensic house, courtrooms and NHS-standard hospital ward.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/exam-timetables:
Students with Support Plans who require a  small group/private room will be contacted directly by the Exams Team with individual arrangements.
Please note: This timetable is subject to change.
We recommend checking this page regularly for any updates to exam dates, times, or room allocations.
You should arrive at the exam room 15 minutes before the scheduled start time.
Make sure to bring your Student ID card with you to every exam.
Examination Room Regulations
Unibus and Public Transport - Derby - University of Derby Note: Unibus services will be running on a reduced schedule during the university holiday period.
If you have any questions about your exams, please don’t hesitate to contact the Exams Team at: exambaseroom@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/applying-for-a-course-at-the-university-of-derby:
Applying for university is an exciting time but can also be a daunting process.
With important deadlines and various things to consider, we're here to help break it down for you.
Use our blogs and tools to guide you through the process, this page contains information on applying as an undergraduate , postgraduate or international student.
Want to know how to apply for an undergraduate course?
Explore your course options, read our UCAS guides and draft your personal statement.
UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) opens for full-time undergraduate applications for the following September.
Many universities hold open days during this time.
They provide the ideal opportunity for you and your young person to take a look around the universities that they are interested in attending.
Find out more about our Undergraduate Open Days
Students who don't meet the entry requirements for their Firm or Insurance choice can go into Clearing.
They will need to contact universities directly to check if places are available.
Clearing closes towards the middle of September, with most university courses starting around this time.
Key dates throughout the year are still relevant to international students.
Students will also need to consider visas and CAS as part of their application process and plan accordingly.
Here’s all you need to know about applying for a full-time or part-time undergraduate course at the University of Derby if you are from the UK, have EU settled status or live overseas.
Are you a mature student?
Do you already have your grades?
Interested in a part-time course?
You can apply for your course directly.
If you're interested in finding out more about how to apply for university, we're here to help.
We have advice and tips to help guide you as you complete your university application.
If you have received an offer from us through Clearing, you now need to make your formal application to us via UCAS.
Reach new academic heights and take on an exciting postgraduate degree.
Find out how to apply directly to the University of Derby for a taught or research-based postgraduate course.
Find out how to apply for a MPhil/PhD and what happens after you apply.
Looking to study a postgraduate course at the University of Derby?
Find out which course to study by taking a look through our postgraduate subject areas from Accounting to Fashion and Textiles t...
Are you an international student interested in applying?
Find information tailored to your specific region and explore our comprehensive guides for insights on applying for scholarships, bursaries, and understanding fees.
Here you can find details of the scholarships, bursaries and discounts available to international students which can be used together to reduce your tuition fees.
Use our guide for international students to find out more about accommodation, visa and immigration support, travelling to the UK, finances and student life.
What will your course cost?
And how do you plan to fund your studies?
Explore your options, whether you're a UK or international student looking for an undergraduate or postgraduate course.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/employers:
Investing in an apprenticeship has many benefits, not least to your employee's personal and professional development, but to the quality and performance of your business.
Apprenticeships are highly accessible meaning people from all backgrounds can engage in higher education and achieve a recognised university qualification.
Here's a brief snapshot of what an apprenticeship can offer you:
View The University for Degree Apprenticeships: What Employers need to know video transcript
We offer a range of Degree Apprenticeships that can support your business in the following areas.
We combine teaching excellence with industry engagement to create a high quality learning experience where people from all backgrounds can achieve their full potential.
The practical training received on our apprenticeship programmes will prepare for the workplace where you’ll join the incredible life-changing work that’s carried out in public health settings.
Hospitality is an ever growing and fast paced industry.
Upskill your workforce and harness the academic excellence of our teaching staff, combined with their industry expertise.
Become an industry leader with our Leadership and Management Apprenticeships.
The practical training you’ll receive on our apprenticeship programmes will prepare you for an exciting career within Science and Engineering.
Buxton and Leek College offer intermediate apprenticeships (Level 2) and advanced apprenticeships (Level 3).
These are equivalent to five GCSEs and two A-levels respectively.
In partnership with The Institute of Apprenticeships , we can offer Business Apprenticeships from level 2 to level 7.
We're preparing to introduce a range of new and exciting programmes in Health and Social Care, including:
In partnership with Buxton and Leek College we offer hospitality apprenticeships from level 2 to level 7.
Find out more information on our Mineral Products apprenticeships .
In partnership with Buxton and Leek College, we offer Accounting Apprenticeships from level 2 to level 4.
In partnership with The Institute of Apprenticeships , we can offer Childcare and Education Apprenticeships from level 2 to level 7.
Meaning that you can up-skill your workforce, no matter what stage of their career they're currently at.
Businesses with an annual payroll of over £3 million are already paying for the delivery of apprenticeship schemes through the national Apprenticeship Levy - think of this as a mandatory tax that your business sets aside to fund apprenticeship training.
If your business is not big enough to pay into this Levy, the government will subsidise 95% of the costs associated with training an apprentice (up to the funding band maximum) meaning your business will only need to pay 5%.
This funding scheme is called 'co-investment'.
If you're a non-levy paying employer taking on a new apprentice between the age of 16-21, their apprenticeship will be fully funded (up to the maximum funding band).
If you pay the Apprenticeship Levy and have unused apprenticeship funds, you can transfer this within your business.
Transferred funds can be used by the receiving employer to upskill other staff.
Select the University of Derby as your End Point Assessment organisation for advice, support and quality assurance.
Our work-based programmes require a combination of on-the-job learning as well as on-campus study at the University of Derby.
Apprentices are required to attend on day or block release from their employment.
Patterns of attendance will vary depending on the course.
There is a 20% mandatory ‘off-the-job’ learning requirement for apprenticeships.
Our programmes are specially-designed to help apprentices link academic theory to their employment setting, enabling them to apply their developing skills and knowledge within their job role.
Apprentices are encouraged to use real work problems and issues to inform and enhance their knowledge, and provide evidence of this learning for assessment purposes.
The University of Derby supports its apprentices with online resources, including readings, podcasts and recordings of lectures and tutorials.
Apprentices will also have a personal tutor to review progress and identify further learning opportunities – pushing those who are doing well, and helping those who require additional support.
Apprentices will be given work-related activities to undertake, which can be designed in consultation with employers to ensure your organisation receives a real benefit.
This type of activity can be scheduled to suit the apprentice, enabling them to learn to manage their time and workload effectively.
‘Off-the-job’ training is defined as the time spent by the apprentice away from the employment setting (or within the employment setting but outside of their usual duties) that directly relates to the apprenticeship framework or standard.
Each apprenticeship programme requires a minimum time spent undertaking this type of training, and it can be spread over the duration of the programme.
What counts as ‘off-the-job’-training?
It does not include:
Time spent in ‘off-the-job’ training must be recorded by the apprentice.
The time it takes for an apprentice to complete a higher or degree apprenticeship at the University of Derby varies, and can be affected by a number of factors.
Our courses are offered over a minimum number of years, and vary by apprenticeship standard, the type of programme, employer requirements/expectations and the development of the apprentice.
Each apprenticeship is tailor-made to employer experience and to meet your entry criteria.
Yes.
We can help you to identify staff currently in your organisation who could make good apprenticeship candidates, as well as assisting you to recruit suitable apprentices from outside your organisation.
We have plenty of ideas to help you attract the right candidates.
These may include: school and college visits, university open days, events, recruitment open days and work experience.
Contact us for more information.
Employers must provide apprentices with employment in a real position within its organisation, giving them a minimum of 30 hours per week and paying them a wage or salary that meets minimum requirements.
Employers must provide on the job training, and release their employee for University-based training in order to meet course requirements.
We’ll help you with any paperwork to ensure a smooth process throughout the duration of an apprenticeship.
Paperwork you can expect to complete includes:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/beyond-the-classroom-what-makes-learning-and-teaching-at-university-different.php:
[This video features interviews with six people - two lecturers and four students]
Amina (Zoology student): The first time I put on my laboratory coat, I felt like a very real scientist.
So being able to do all these hands-on things has given me a lot of confidence in that I'm able to do this once I graduate.
[We see Amina putting on her University of Derby lab coat outside of the lab, and then confidently raising her hand in a seminar environment amongst classmates]
Ian Turner (Professor of Learning and Teaching in Higher Education): The facilities really do replicate what we find in industry, down to the smallest detail.
So the kind of equipment that's used, and the training manuals and protocols we adopt are all mapped into industry standards.
Jack Martin (Nursing student): These mock wards are almost entirely the same as what we would find on the NHS, or any other hospital for that matter.
By using the imitation patients, we can develop the tools we need to deal with real-life scenarios in a safe and efficient manner.
[We see Jack handling medication and health records in a ward environment]
Amina: So whenever we're using these facilities, our teachers emphasise that these are going to be exactly the same as they will be in the real world.
The skills we use in the microscopes and the microbiology labs that we use are going to be very similar when we go into the real world environment.
[We see Amina using a microscope in the lab]
Dr Nicola Lynch (Head of Derby Business School): We are continually investing in our facilities at Derby to ensure that our students have the best learning environment where they can thrive and prosper in the subjects that they're studying, such as our new business school investment.
[We see a student learning from a lecturer using charts data in the Financial Markets Lab]
That is, to ensure that our students have state-of-the-art facilities, and that connection to industry is really vibrant within the school.
Rui (Photography student): As a student, I get access to three studios, the darkroom, multiple and larges where I can work on black and white analogue photography, as well as colour analogue photography, and also the Media Loan Hub, where I can borrow professional equipment.
[We see Rui using photography equipment in the studio environment, and borrowing an equipment kit from the Media Loan Hub.
Finally we see him using a Mac to edit photos on Adobe Photoshop]
Having access to industry-standard equipment allows me to hone my skills as a photographer and build my portfolio and experience for my future career, without the financial barrier of having to afford equipment myself.
Ian: Real-world learning is really at the heart of what the University of Derby does, giving students the opportunity to not only learn the necessary skills and competencies, but also make a difference to employers.
And a great example of how that's done is by using things like case studies and live briefs, which are directed and informed by the employers themselves.
Anisha Johal (English graduate): One I worked with was with a local company who wanted to improve their marketing, and we offered a proposal to the company in the form of a presentation.
So we analysed their current offerings, their current marketing, the good points to maintain; the areas of improvement.
[We see Anisha presenting to employers in a classroom setting]
We then offered our solutions, our creative ideas of things they could implement, and ways of reflecting on whether they were effective or not in the future.
Nicola: We strongly encourage all of our students to gain work experience while they study with us.
So they have options of doing short internship work experience opportunities or taking year-long placements between their second and third year of study.
[We see a student working in a logistics and supply chain location]
In terms of those placement examples, students have worked within small organisations to international organisations, both locally to internationally.
Examples include: Pirelli, JCB, Disney, Mazars, and so on.
Jack: Approximately two-thirds of our learning is placement.
These placements can be anything from a surgical placement on a ward to a place out in the community, working with a community nurse.
When I got onto the ward, the staff were very welcoming and made me feel like part of the team.
At the end of my first placement, I was a lot less frightened if you would, to go on to my second one, as I knew what a placement would involve and I feel like that every placement after my first one is just getting better and as you gain knowledge, the job gets a lot easier.
Ian: Career progression, employability prospects are really central to all of our programmes.
So, almost from the very first day, we're preparing students for that exit and entry into the world of employment.
[We see shots of a student teacher working with young children, and of a group of students in a courtroom conducting a mock trial.]
Nicola: We work with a number of external partners across all of our programmes in the Business School, and they work both in terms of informing the curriculum, helping when we're designing programmes, but also in terms of the delivery.
So we have a number of external organisations that will come in and give guest lectures, talking about the industry that they're working in and offering advice to students in terms of how they progress into that potential career.
But also we incorporate our relationship with those organisations in terms of the curriculum, and assessments.
Ian: And I think the University of Derby does a great job with having a wide range of assessments.
Yes - some of the standard things that you may expect, like essays, reports, and presentations - but a whole range of really creative and innovative assessment types: from comics to podcasts, designs, to game design, which are really relevant to the individual context with which students study.
[We see a student in the radio suite putting on headphones and controlling the recording desk, followed by a student in the XR Lab trialling a VR game headset as the game mirrors to large screens]
It's applied, it's authentic, and it gives the students a real strong sense of ownership.
It means something to them and the employers that ultimately will employ them.
Amina: This will be my second degree that I'm going for.
I previously had another degree in another university and I felt this experience is a lot different.
I really do feel that the teachers here genuinely care about my education and not even just my education, but my wellbeing, while studying.
Anisha: The lecturers at the university are incredibly supportive.
They offer support in a multitude of ways.
So you have your, like, lectures where you learn about the content and the theory, and then you have seminars, which is the opportunity to discuss what you’ve just learned and to have a debate and discussion with your peers.
[We see Anisha working in a small group discussion, a poem showing on the screen, as they discuss ideas]
And it's okay if you don't agree with your lecturer or your peers.
The purpose is that everyone gets to express their ideas and back it up with academic research.
So it's great to kind of develop that skill, which you don't necessarily learn in previous education; university is much more about independent thinking, being critical and very self-aware.
Jack: The lecturers help us with any query that we may have.
If we are struggling with an exam, we can have a face-to-face tutorial one-to-one, where they will assist us with any queries that we may have about the exam.
[We see Jack in a ward setting getting instruction from the leading academic on how to resuscitate a patient]
As the vast majority of these lecturers are practicing nurses themselves, they know that all the material that they teach and provide us with in a simulated environment is of top quality and is of a standard that we can use for the real world.
Amina: So the University of Derby assigns a Personal Academic Tutor for every student, which we call our PATs.
And, you're able to go to them for any advice that you want and need,
Anisha: They can discuss your personal development, professional development, academic development.
So if there's anything you're struggling with academically, whether it's referencing or essay writing or presenting, you do have the opportunity to express these concerns with your lecturer, who will then give you advice and support and feedback on how to develop and improve.
[We see Anisha having a discussion with her Personal Academic Tutor]
They're basically there to help and support you as much as they can, so that you can achieve your full potential.
[We end on the University of Derby logo, and a link to the Study section of the website]
Back to Study

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/commuting-to-university:
Commuting to university is a popular choice for many students, offering the flexibility to save on costs, remain connected to home life and balance studies with other commitments.
Whatever your circumstances, commuting doesn’t mean missing out on the full university experience, and we offer a range of services and amenities to help you get the most out of student life.
Some reasons why commuting could be the perfect option for you:
Our Derby and Chesterfield campuses are well-connected and easily accessible, with convenient links to major transport routes including motorways, train stations and bus networks.
If you’re planning to drive to our Derby campus, you’ll need a permit to park.
We have a limited number of spaces for students at our Kedleston Road site, available for those who can demonstrate an exceptional need to park here.
Eligible students will need to pay for their parking digitally via MiPermit .
Working with Derby City Council, we’re also pleased to offer a limited amount of parking permits for the nearby Markeaton Park, allowing students to access discounted tariffs from Monday to Friday during teaching weeks.
If you wish to drive to the University but do not want a Student Parking Permit here are some local parking alternatives to consider:
Our Unibus service connects Markeaton Park to our other Derby sites, allowing you to travel seamlessly across our campus when you park here.
Easily accessible from the A38 and A52 via Markeaton roundabout, the car park is only a 10-to-15-minute walk from each of our Derby sites.
Motorcycles
Motorcyclists are welcome to park at our Kedleston Road site for free and without a permit, using the covered bays in Car Park 1.
Lockers are available to store your kit, and these can be booked by visiting the transport office.
Motorcycle parking can also be found at our Markeaton Street site.
While there’s no on-site parking at our St Helena site, Chesterfield Borough Council offer reduced-cost parking for students nearby using a daily scratch card, which can be purchased from our online shop and collected from the Student Hub Express on site.
These allow all-day parking in the following car parks for just £3.00 per day.
There’s limited Blue Badge parking at St Helena, and approval to park must be acquired via the MiPermit Derby website.
Getting to campus by bus is easy, with plenty of well-connected and frequent services to choose from whether you are travelling from the surrounding area or further afield.
If you live nearby, there are plenty of public bus services to choose from, many of which stop either at Derby Bus Station (connected to our Derby site via our Unibus service) or on Kedleston Road.
Our Chesterfield campus is also well connected via bus, and routes include:
Running all year round, our Unibus service is the quickest and cheapest way to get around our Derby campus.
Operating two timetables that link key transport hubs, including Derby Train and Bus stations, the city centre and our University sites – you’ll be able to immerse yourself in student life all over the city with ease.
Unibus 1 connects our Kedleston Road site with Bridge Street, Derby City centre and Derby Train Station, while Unibus 2 serves our Markeaton Street and Britannia Mill sites.
With a rich railway heritage, Derby benefits from excellent links to locations across the UK.
Major train services stopping in Derby include:
Our Unibus 1 service means you’ll be able to hop off your train and straight onto a direct bus to our Kedleston Road site.
Chesterfield benefits from similar train links, and features on several major routes including:
Chesterfield station is just a 10-minute journey (0.4 miles) to our St Helena campus, meaning you won’t have to worry about finding a bus when you arrive here.
Cycling and walking offer a sustainable and healthy way to travel, while helping you to beat the morning traffic and explore our campus at your own pace.
Derbyshire is packed with cycle routes and public footpaths, making it easy and safe to commute here.
Both our Derby and Chesterfield campuses offer covered bike storage and shower facilities, while our Kedleston Road site is home to our Sustainable Travel Hub, which features safe storage space protected by swipe card access, and a service station equipped with an air pump, bike rack and various cycling tools to aid emergency repairs.
Want to find out how long it would take to walk around our Derby campus and to popular city centre locations?
Use our handy tool to find out .
Commuting to university doesn’t mean missing out on student life, and there are plenty of ways to make friends, get involved with activities and make the most of student life – no matter how far you travel.
Getting involved with freshers before your course begins is a great opportunity to meet new people, try different things and explore the exciting opportunities available at university.
Visiting our Freshers Fair is a great way to chat to our current students about societies and clubs, sign up to free ‘give it a go’ sessions and bag plenty of freebies.
Our Union of Students also run a packed calendar of events that are perfect for meeting new people and making friends.
Activities include book clubs, movie nights, sporting events, crafts, karaoke, gigs and more.
Have you always fancied trying climbing, taekwondo or lacrosse?
Perhaps you have an undiscovered passion for film, musical theatre or history.
Whatever you’re in to, getting involved with societies and clubs is a great way to make friends, explore new interests and feel more connected to university life – and we have over 70 for you to choose from .
Having a comfortable space to study or socialise between lecturers makes a big difference.
Whether you’re looking for a quiet spot, or somewhere to enjoy a hot drink and a chat, you’ll have plenty of places to choose from here.
Located at our Kedleston Road site, our four-storey library offers a balance of group and silent study areas, while our recently refurbished social space Basecamp provides a relaxed environment for you to unwind and socialise, while enjoying a hot drink from our Union of Students’ coffee shop, Blends.
Wherever you’re based here, you’ll find somewhere that suits your needs, and you can get to know our facilities before you arrive by taking a Virtual Tour .
I commuted from my home in Derby by driving and then walking a short distance to University.
Lots of my course mates also happened to commute – it was more common than I initially thought!
I was still able to take part in Union and Careers events and was a member of the ladies football team society.
It's still possible to have that university experience without living in halls!
Commuting to university doesn’t have to feel like wasted time – in fact there are lots of ways to turn this into an enjoyable part of your day.
Here are a few ways that you can make the most of your journey, whether that’s staying productive, getting organised or taking some time to unwind.
Have any questions?
Email us at study@derby.ac.uk , and we’ll be happy to help.
Whether you decide to commute or live in halls, university is all about finding what works best for you, and we’re here to support you.
Explore your options, plan your journey and prepare for an exciting university journey ahead!
Have you thought about living in halls?
Many local students find it's the perfect balance – offering independence, convenience and opportunities to immerse yourself in student life, all while staying close to home.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity:
Our University celebrates diversity and recognises the challenges of being human and the significance and impact of inclusion within an organisation.
We are all different, with individual talents and needs.
Our inclusive community of academics and professional service staff work hard to support and enable everyone to thrive and be the best version of themselves.
Across our academic and professional services, we promote an environment that challenges unconscious bias and discrimination at every level of the organisation.
We do this through:
Find out more about what we do
View Kedleston Road access map View Markeaton Street access map
At the University of Derby, we are committed to promoting diversity and equity through inclusive practice.
Hidden disabilities can make it hard to communicate your need for special requirements in a quick way.
That's why we've introduced the sunflower badge.
Our role models and allies represent and support the diverse communities at the University.
They are people who recognise and visibly demonstrate every day that everyone has an important contribution.
We challenge prejudice and seek to create a diverse, inclusive and safe place for everyone to learn and work because it takes courage to be the person you know you really are.
AccessAble surveys our campus and provides detailed access guides to let you know what access will be like when you visit us
As a University, we are committed to challenging the impact of racism by providing an environment that is safe and encourages open, anti-racist dialogue.
Our Gender Equality Network works to promote, enhance and support the experiences and wellbeing of our staff and students in an effort to progress gender equality across the University.
We celebrate faith and belief through a variety of activities hosted by our Chaplaincy Team, the Union of Students Societies and the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Team.
The Equality Act 2010 brought together and updated a wide range of laws passed since the 1970s into one place, to make things fairer for everyone.
The University is committed to providing an environment which seeks to encourage an open and diverse community.
To support our commitment to equality and diversity, and in the spirit of openness and transparency, we publish our Equality and Diversity Annual Report, Equal Pay reports, Gender Pay Gap reports...
Take a look at articles related to inclusion - from nature connectedness to how online learning can improve outcomes for students with disabilities.
The Athena Swan Charter is a framework used across the globe to support and transform gender equality within higher education (HE) and research.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/being-a-good-neighbour:
Students make up a large proportion of the local community, and it's great when you can feel at home in a new area.
There are various ways you can contribute to your community and help others out.
We encourage all students to respect the local neighbourhood and wider community.
If you’re living in private accommodation, introduce yourself to your neighbours.
It’s always nice to be friendly to your neighbours, so take the first step and say hello.
We recommend doing this within the first few days of moving in so you can build rapport from the off.
Derby is a popular city, and many families live alongside you in the community.
Remember when coming in from nights out to keep the noise level down and be mindful that many of them are working or have children.
If a neighbour makes a request, take it on board.
It will be much more difficult for you to deal with if you ignore it and they escalate the complaint to the University.
Being a good neighbour involves taking responsibility for your house and ensuring you keep your property tidy and clean.
Make sure you bring bins in (and recycle if possible).
Don’t leave litter lying around.
Arrange for larger bags of waste to be taken away as it is easy to ask the council to do this.
You can find out details about waste management from Derby Streetpride .
If you have a car, please note on-site parking is for blue badge holders only (or permit holders for Kedleston Road site, Derby Campus).
Holding a permit does not guarantee a space.
If you’re parking your car around our Chesterfield or Derby sites, don’t park your car in your neighbours’ spaces or in areas marked as ‘private’ or ‘residents only’.
Don’t obstruct the pavement as this can create difficulties for elderly people and young children using pathways around the University.
It can also prevent locals using the space outside their homes.
Derby Campus: Don’t obstruct the entrances and pavements of Brook Medical Centre and Jonty Farmer as this prevents access for pedestrians, wagons and deliveries.
The car parks are for visitors so please find alternative places to park and be considerate of our local community.
Find out more transport options and parking around our sites .
However, please remember to keep safe, be respectful, and professional.
You should also ensure you have consent from everyone appearing in the content you post.
The use of social media can have a major positive impact on your personal, professional and academic life if used appropriately.
Whether it’s by joining the local community Facebook page or getting involved in a neighbourhood watch scheme, there are many great ways to represent the student community positively and learn more about the people you live amongst.
If you’ve moved, we recommend registering to vote so that you can have your say in any local or general elections – in the last general election Derby was highlighted as one of the key areas where students had the potential to impact the outcome.
You can register to vote at gov.uk .
P olitics is an important part of our lives.
You’ll be aware of the significant changes this has had on university students, such as the rise of tuition fees.
Politics doesn’t just have an impact on universities, it has the power to shape our lives completely.
So, it’s important that we all register to vote to contribute to decide who it is that makes these kinds of decisions on our behalf.
We encourage you to get involved in volunteering locally; meet local charities and find out how you can get further involved in your community.
Volunteering can make a positive impact on your local community whilst being a great addition to your CV.
In every city you need to take precautions to feel safe, from feeling secure in your home to feeling secure when you’re out and about.
Although Derby is a friendly city, we want you to stay safe.
Follow our @derbyunistudent social media accounts to find top tips about how you can stay safe in a city.
Our helpful and friendly security team will be more than happy to advise on staying safe and give you a safety alarm to borrow that can be collected from any of our reception desks.
To help keep you safe we have a free SafeZone app .
You’ll need your unimail address to access SafeZone.
Using SafeZone means you can call for help and assistance when you need it at the touch of a button.
It gives you fast access to security whenever and wherever you are on campus.
SafeZone also allows you to easily check in and share your location on campus if you choose to – for example if you are studying late or at night.
If you need medical assistance or help, you can immediately contact the security team through the app.
We can also use the app to contact you in the unlikely situation that there is an incident on campus that requires building closures or evacuation such as a fire.
If you do feel unsafe at any time, please call 101 for non-emergencies and 999 for emergencies.
To help reduce the vulnerability of our sites and ensure safety, we have some safety reminders:
Firearms and weapons attacks are extremely rare, but we must always know to stay safe; National Police Chiefs' Council NPCC have created a Run, Hide, Tell video .
If you need emergency assistance or first aid, always call +44 (0)1332 597777 .
We are proud to be a Responsible Futures accredited University , which reflects our commitment to embedding social responsibility and sustainability into the curri culum and student experience.
As a university, we’re very aware of our impact on the local, national and global environment.
We are particularly conscious of our collective responsibilities to help protect it.
Over the last few years, we have focused on national campaigns such as: Go Green Week, Earth Hour, 30 Days Wild and Pack for Good.
Join students and staff by sha ring environmentally friendly tips through the @ Derby UniStudent social media channels with the hashtag #DerbyGoesGreen.
We have a variety of outdoor seating at some of our Derby sites, including an outdoor study space at our Kedleston Road Library and we've recently established several 'no mow zones' at our University sites to help encourage wildlife to flourish.
You could join Enactus Derby , a student-led society, which is part of a global network of university students.
Enactus Derby currently has team projects focused on food sustainability, plastic waste reduction, and supporting homeless people.
There are opportunities for you to start up your own project supported by a team of advisers from industry and the University.
Find out how we're embedding environmental sustainability into all aspects of the University.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/student-social-life.php:
We see fast shots backed by an upbeat song.
We start with a student waking in halls, wiping their face, and checking something on their laptop.
We next see them walking outside of halls with a rucksack over one shoulder.
The shot changes to the same student walking, but now in Basecamp Social Space on campus.
The student sits with a mixed group of others who are chatting with an open laptop.
This is the group we see in separate activities throughout the rest of the video.
The last student shown is then cut to later at Derbion Shopping Centre.
They smile and meet another friend, and are shown walking, and sitting with takeaway coffees.
We next see a student walking in Derby's Cathedral Quarter, then meeting others in Walkabout with a fist bump and waves.
They are playing a board game and we see some fast hits of a buzzer.
One of the students jogs onto the pitch at the campus Sports Centre, meeting Women's Footballers in Team Derby kit.
They practice moving the football between cones, and kicking it into a goal.
The players walk off the field together.
The next shot sees four of our students reunited in The Mixing House Bar in Derby City Centre.
They cheers their glasses
Next the group are playing pool at The Friary.
They excitably chat as they leave.
University of Derby logo + derby.ac.uk/life links
Back to Life

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/fees-finance/cost-of-living:
Thinking about how you'll manage your living costs is a great way to prepare for university.
By choosing to study with the University of Derby you're off to a great start, as the Midlands is one of the cheapest regions in the UK to live as a student .
What's more, Derby has officially been recognised as one of the most affordable cities to live in .
We've put together some pointers on ways to make savings, with tips and advice around making the most of your student experience on a budget.
With no extra bills and an all-inclusive price, our halls of residence are convenient and hassle-free.
Offering great value for money, they feature:
Halls are suitable for all students - new or returning.
Existing students can apply early and may want to decide who to share a flat with.
* except Darley Bank and Flamsteed Court
** covers non-electric bikes up to the value of £400
If you plan to look for some ad-hoc opportunities to boost your money as a student, you might not have to go very far, as we have paid work available within the University.
If you need some support taking your next career step, we also offer CV writing and job interview help through our Careers and Employment Service .
We know how difficult it can be to understand what financial and wellbeing support is out there, so we've made it really easy for you to speak to someone who can help.
There are a range of measures and adjustments in place to help lighten the load of being a student at Derby.
Recent graduate Kyle gives the advice that he wished he'd known on how to budget as a student.
The University Bursary provides targeted financial assistance to help cover the costs of higher education.
Read more about how it works, who’s eligible, and how it can support you during your studies.
Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy student, Sai Rushali Srivastava, provides advice for international students on how to manage their money in the UK.
University is often our first experience of being financially independent.
Final year student Izzy shares her strategy of making it easier to manage money.
When considering your grocery shop, are you thinking of price, convenience, or sustainability?
A few quick swaps can allow you to easily shop sustainably on a budget.
Here's a few tips.
With energy costs increasing, it can be difficult to cover bills as a student.
Here are five easy methods to save energy, reduce costs and lower your carbon footprint.
To help you get a sense of what your costs might look like as a University of Derby student, we've put together some typical expenses below.
Keep in mind that the amount you'll spend as a student will vary depending on your lifestyle, and the prices listed represent a rough guide.
Second year Accounting and Finance student Kira shares her best advice on where you can make savings.
Student Money Advice and Rights Team (SMART) Co-ordinator Robert Fowler talks you through the finance options available for your first degree.
View Webinar: Undergraduate Student Funding video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/the-university-of-derby-makes-me-feel.php:
Anisha Johal: "The University of Derby makes me feel...
Empowered : they empowered me to break barriers and smash stereotype."
Nathan Addai: " Diverse : I feel like I'm part of a bigger community and what I've learned about my abilities and potential goes well beyond my degree."
Tingan Li: " Excitement : a train station that felt challenging to start but led to excitement built on my character and independence."
Ioana Batcu: " Passionate : a process of growth filled with fun career opportunities and beautiful people - a mixture of everything."
Adam Price: " Independence : Derby has given me confidence and self-direction allowing me to experience independence for the very first time."
Jessica Lucas: " Awakened : to a world full of possibilities.
Nothing is stopping us now."

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/read-our-prospectus:
Take your first step towards joining the University of Derby.
Our prospectus provides you with the perfect introduction to student life at the University of Derby.
It will enable you to discover our our state of the art facilities, meet some of our students and get to know our award-winning lecturers.
Our prospectus will provide you the opportunity to find your perfect course, explore our campus and find out crucial information such as how and when to apply, our fees, student support and sports and activities here at the University.
We are always happy to help and are here to answer any questions you have.
If you have any questions let us know and we will get back to you with the right information.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/entry-requirements/international:
These are the international qualifications we accept for entry on to an undergraduate course.
You can find the English language requirements that you will need for your chosen course on the course page.
International Foundation Programme (IFP)
Qualification: Grade 12 Graduation Certificate (Baccalauria/Baccalaureate Certificate) Requirement: 45% of sum of highest marks for all subjects
Foundation Pathway Programme (FPP)
Qualification: Applicants are not eligible for this pathway as English is not studied as a first language, refer to IFP instead Requirement: N/A
Undergraduate with foundation year
Qualification: Grade 12 Graduation Certificate (Baccalauria/Baccalaureate Certificate) Requirement: 50% of sum of highest marks for all subjects
Undergraduate
Qualification: First-year entry - Recognised Foundation Programme Requirement: 80%
Qualification: Third-year entry - Bachelor’s degree that is not an Engineering degree from Kabul University Requirement: CGPA 2.5
Postgraduate
Qualification: Bachelor in Engineering subjects from Kabul University Requirement: 2:2 = 70%
Qualification: MD degrees in Medicine / Stomatology equivalent to a Bachelor’s degree Requirement: 2:1 = 80%
Qualification: Dëftesë Pjekurie - Secondary School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 5 Qualification: Diplomë e Maturës Shtetërore - Diploma of State Matura Requirement: 5-6 / 10
Qualification: Dëftesë Pjekurie - Secondary School Leaving Certificate / Diplomë e Maturës Shtetërore - Diploma of State Matura Requirement: 5
Qualification: Dëftesë Pjekurie - Secondary School Leaving Certificate / Diplomë e Maturës Shtetërore - Diploma of State Matura Requirement: 6
Qualification: 1st year - Diplomë e Maturës Shtetërore / Final Year Entry - Diplomë Universitare Requirement: 9/10
Qualification: Diplomë e Nivelit të Pare / Diplomë Jo-Universitare Requirement: 2:2 = 7/10 | 2:1 = 8/10
Qualification: Baccalaureat de L'Enseignement Secondaire Requirement: 10/20 in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: Brevet de Technicien Superieur Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: First year entry - Brevet de Technicien Superieur Requirement: 11/20
Qualification: Second year entry - Diplome Requirement: 11/20
Qualification: Diplome d'Etudes Superieures or Diplome d'Ingenieur/Diplome d'Architecte Requirement: 2:1 = 13 | 2:2 = 11
Qualification: tbc Requirement: tbc
Qualification: Titol de Batxiller Requirement: 7
Qualification: Titol de Batxiller Requirement: 8
Qualification: Batxelor Requirement: 2:2 = 6 | 2:1 = 8
Qualification: Certificador de Habilitacoes Literarias Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: Certificador de Habilitacoes Literarias Requirement: 12/20
Qualification: First year entry - Recognised International Foundation Year Requirement: Pass
Qualification: Second year entry - Bacharel Requirement: 12/20
Qualification: Grau de Licenciado or Grau de Mestre Requirement: 2:1 = 15/20 | 2:2 = 13/20
Qualification: Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate from 1998 Requirement: 2
Qualification: Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate pre 1998 Requirement: 2
Qualification: Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate from 1998 Requirement: 3
Qualification: Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) Requirement: IV
Qualification: The entry requirement for a postgraduate taught course is typically equivalent to a UK Second Class Honours Second Division (2:2)
Qualification: Titulo de Bachiller/Perito Mercantil/ Tecnico Requirement: 5
Qualification: Titulo de Bachiller/Perito Mercantil/ Tecnico Requirement: 6
Qualification: First Year - Tecnico Superior/Tecnico Universitario Requirement: 7
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: 2:1 - 7.5 | 2:2 - 6
Qualification: Certifiate of (complete) Secondary General Education Requirement: 6
Qualification: Certifiate of (complete) Secondary General Education Requirement: 8
Qualification: First Year - Certificate of Unified Examination or Junior Specialist Diploma Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma Requirement: 2:1 - Grade B or 15/20 | 2:2 - Grade C or 9/20
Require a High School Certificate and an ATAR Score of 70 or OP of 21 PLUS:
Qualification: Ital Territory - Year 12 Certificate Requirement: 120 points including 3 Major T courses and one minor T course (H courses also acceptable)
Qualification: New South Wales Territory - Higher School Certificate Requirement: 10 units of Category A Board Developed Courses
Qualification: Northern Territory - Northern Territory Certificate of Education and Training Requirement: 80 credits with minimum of 60 credits in Tertiary Admissions Subjects
Qualification: Queensland - Queensland Certificate of Education Requirement: 20 semester units of Authority Subjects in addition to the Queensland Core Skills Test
Qualification: South Australia - South Australia Certificate of Education Requirement: 80 credits with minimum of 60 credits in Tertiary Admissions Subjects
Qualification: Tasmania - Tasmania Certificate of Education Requirement: 3 subjects at TQA level 3/TCE level 5/ C Syllabus
Qualification: Victoria - Victoria Certificate of Education Requirement: Five unit 3 and 4 passes
Qualification: Western Australia - Certificate of Education Requirement: four year 12 WACE subjects
Qualification: Bachelor degree Requirement: 51
Qualification: Bachelor Degree or Fachhochschuldiplom / Diplom (FH) Requirement: 2:1 = 3/5 | 2:2 = 2/5
Qualification: Orta Tahsil Haqqinda Sahadatnama - Certificate of Complete Secondary Education Requirement: 3.5/5
Qualification: Orta Tahsil Haqqinda Sahadatnama - Certificate of Complete Secondary Education Requirement: 3.75/5
Qualification: International foundation year required Requirement: Successfully Completed
Qualification: Baklavr Diplomu Requirement: 2:1 - 75% or GPA 3.75/5 | 2:2 - 65% or GPA 3.25/5
Qualification: Diplomu - Specialist Diploma Requirement: 2:1 - 75% or GPA 3.75/5 | 2:2 - 65% or GPA 3.25/5
Qualification: GCSE/GCE O Levels - equivalent to a UK GCSE Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Associate Degree Requirement: IV
Qualification: Bachelor Degree from College of Bahama Requirement: C+
Qualification: GCE A Levels Requirement: Comparable to UK A levels
Qualification: Bachelor degree from University of the West Indies Requirement: 2:1 - 60% or B+ | 2:2 - 50% or B
Qualification: Secondary School Certificate Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Secondary School Certificate Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Secondary School Certificate Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama + International Foundation Year Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Bachelor Degree Requirement: 2:1 - 2.7-3.3/4 | 2:2 - 2.0-2.6/4
Qualification: HSC /Intermediate Certificate/Alim Requirement: Grade C/40%/GPA 2.0 in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: Polytechnic diploma by the Bangladesh Technical Education Board Requirement: 45% (2nd division)
Qualification: 2 year Bachelor degree Requirement: 45% (2nd division)
Qualification: Polytechnic diploma by the Bangladesh Technical Education Board Requirement: 60% overall
Qualification: First year entry - 2 years Bachelors Degree Requirement: 50% overall
Qualification: Second year entry - 3-4 years Bachelors Degree Requirement: 50% overall
Qualification: Third year entry - 3-5 years Bachelors Degree Requirement: 50% overall
Qualification: Bachelors from NARIC or government recognised institution Requirement: 50% or 2.7 for 2:2 | 60% or 3.0 for 2:1
Additional information:
Qualification: Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate before 1998 Requirement: 2
Qualification: Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate before 1998 Requirement: 3
Qualification: GCE Advanced Levels Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Bachelor degree from University of the West Indies, Cave Hill Requirement: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: Certificate of General Secondary education Requirement: 2/5
Qualification: Certificate of General Secondary education Requirement: 3/5
Qualification: Diploma of Specialised Secondary Education Requirement: 3/5
Qualification: Specialist Diploma Requirement: 2:1 - 8/10 | 2:2 - 7/10
Qualification: Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Supérieur (CESS) (Wallonia) Requirement: 14/20
Qualification: Diploma van Hoger Secundair Onderwijs (Flanders) Requirement: 14/20
Qualification: Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Supérieur (CESS) (Wallonia) Requirement: 15/20
Qualification: Diploma van Hoger Secundair Onderwijs (Flanders) Requirement: 15/20
Qualification: Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Supérieur (CESS) (Wallonia) Requirement: 16/20
Qualification: Diploma van Hoger Secundair Onderwijs (Flanders) Requirement: 16/20
Qualification: Bachelor Degree Requirement: 2:1 = 14/20 or 70% | 2:2 = 12/20 or 60%
Qualification: GCE Ordinary Level Requirement: Directly comparable to UK GCSEs
Qualification: GCE A Levels Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Bachelor degree accredited by the University Council of Jamaica Requirement: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: Baccalaureat Requirement: Bien
Qualification: Brevet de Technicien Supérieur / Diplôme de Technicien Supérieur / Diplôme d’Etudes Techniques Supérieures Requirement: 14/20
Qualification: Licence/Bachelor Requirement: 14/20
Qualification: Diplôme d'Études Approfondies / Diplôme d'Études Supérieures / Master Requirement: 2:1 = 16 | 2:2 = 14
Qualification: Bermuda School Certfficate Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Bermuda School Certfficate Requirement: Grade C and pass in all modules
Qualification: First Year - Associate of Arts or Science Requirement: C
Qualification: Bachelor Degree Requirement: 2:1 = minimum 3.0 | 2:2 = minimum 2.5
Qualification: Bhutan Higher Secondary Education Certificate completed after 2006 Requirement: 45%
Qualification: Bhutan Higher Secondary Education Certificate completed after 2006 Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Certificate, Diploma or Bachelor Degree Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Bachelors degree with 3 years study duration Requirement: 2:1 = 70% | 2:2 = 60%
Qualification: Título de Bachiller / Perito Mercantil / Técnico Requirement: 62%
Qualification: Título de Bachiller / Perito Mercantil / Técnico Requirement: 63%
Qualification: Título de Bachiller / Perito Mercantil / Técnico Requirement: 64%
Qualification: Técnico Superior or Técnico Universitario Requirement: 64%
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: 2:1 = 77% | 2:2 = 64%
Qualification: Matura / Svjedodžba o Zavrženoj Srednjoj Skoli - Secondary School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 2
Qualification: Matura / Svjedodžba o Zavrženoj Srednjoj Skoli - Secondary School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 3
Qualification: First Year - e Matura / Svjedodžba o Zavrženoj Srednjoj Skoli Requirement: 4
Qualification: Secondary School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 4
Qualification: BA/ BSci / Diplomirani Requirement: 2:1 = 4 | 2:2 = 3
Qualification: International General Certificate of Secondary Education or Botswana General Certificate of Secondary Education Examination Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: International General Certificate of Secondary Education or Botswana General Certificate of Secondary Education Examination Requirement: C
Qualification: First Year Entry - Certificate or Diploma from the University of Botswana Requirement: C
Qualification: Second Year Entry - Higher Diploma from the University of Botswana Requirement: 2nd class 2nd division
Qualification: Final Year Entry - Four year degree Requirement: 2nd class 2nd division
Qualification: Five year degree Requirement: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: Certificacado de Conclusão de Segundo Grau / Certificacado de Conclusão de Ensino Médio / Diploma de Técnico de Nivel Medio Requirement: Pass all modules
Qualification: First Year entry - Título / Grau de Tecnólogo completed the first year successfully Requirement: Pass all modules
Qualification: Licenciatura or Bacharel Requirement:
1-10 Grading Scale: A score of 7 is considered comparable to a UK 2:1 A score of 6 is considered comparable to a UK 2:2
1-4 Grading Scale: A score of 3.3 is considered comparable to a UK 2:1 A score of 2.7 is considered comparable to a UK 2:2
Catholic / Federal / State Scales: A grade of B is considered comparable to a UK 2:1 A grade of C is considered comparable to a UK 2:2
Percentage A score of 70% is considered comparable to a UK 2:1 A score of 60% is considered comparable to a UK 2:2
Qualification: Caribbean Advanced Profiency Examination (CAPE) Requirement: IV
Qualification: Cambridge General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: First year entry - BDTEV National Diploma Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Final year entry - BDTEV Higher National Diploma Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Bachelors Degree Requirement: 2:1 = 60%, B or 3.1 | 2:2 = 50%, C or 2.7
Qualification: General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: C in English Language and Maths
Qualification: Probatoire Requirement: C in English Language and Maths
Qualification: General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: C / Pass overall
Qualification: Probatoire Requirement: C / Pass overall
Qualification: Diplôme d’Études Supérieures Spécialisées Requirement: Pass all modules
Qualification: Diplôme d’Études Approfondies Requirement: Pass all modules
Qualification: Diplôme des Humanités Complètes Requirement: 45%
Qualification: Diplôme des Humanités Complètes Requirement: 50%
Qualification: First Year Entry - Candidature / Diplôme d’Etudes Supérieures Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Final Year Entry - Diplôme d'Ingénieur Technicien Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Diplôme d'Études Approfondies Requirement: 2:1 = 70% | 2:2 = 69%
Qualification: Diploma of Upper Secondary School Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Diploma of Upper Secondary School Requirement: C / Pass overall
Qualification: First Year Entry - Associate Degree Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Second Year Entry - Bachelor Degree Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Masters Degree Requirement: 2:1 = GPA 3.0, B or 70% | 2:2 = GPA 2.5, C+ or 65%
Qualification: General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Probatoire Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Baccalaureat Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: Probatoire Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: General Certificate of Education A Levels Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A levels
Qualification: First year entry - General Certificate of Education A Levels Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A levels
Qualification: First year entry - Baccalaureat Requirement: 12/20
Qualification: A three year Licence, Bachelor degree, Diplôme d'Etudes Superieures de Commerce, Diplôme d'Ingénieur or Maîtrise Requirement: 2:1 = 14 or Bien or 3.00 GPA at Anglophone Institution such as University of Buea | 2:2 = 12 or Assez Bien or 2.50 GPA at Anglophone Institution such as University of Buea
Qualification: Grade 11 of their High School Diploma Requirement: Pass in all modules with a minimum average of 45%
Qualification: Grade 11 of their High School Diploma Requirement: Pass in all modules with a minimum average of 50%
Qualification: High School Certificate or GED Requirement: Minimum of 65% from at least 5 subjects at grade 12 - subject secifics 65% minimum
Qualification: Alberta - General High School Diploma Requirement: Grade 12 courses are numbered 30 or 31
Qualification: British Colombia - Certificate of Graduation (Dogwood Diploma) Requirement: The number at the end of the course title indicates the grade
Qualification: Manitoba - High School Graduation Diploma Requirement: The first number is the level of the course.
4 = Grade 12
Qualification: New Brunswick - High School Graduation Diploma Requirement: Anglophone System - Courses have 3 numbers following the subject, the first 2 refer to the level of the course | Franophone system - Courses have 6 digits, 3rd digit is course level 4 = grade 12
Qualification: Newfoundland and Labrador - High School Graduatio Diploma Requirement: Course codes have 6 digits, 3rd digit is course level.
Level 3 = Grade 12, Level 4 = Advanced Placement.
Qualification: Northwest Territories - General High School Diploma Requirement: Grade 12 courses start with the number 3 (e.g.
30, 35, 3000)
Qualification: Nova Scotia - High School Completion Certificate Requirement: 65% in five grade 12 subjects
Qualification: Nunavut - High School Graduation Diploma Requirement: Grade 12 courses start with the number 3 (e.g.
Qualification: Ontario - Ontario Secondary School Diploma Requirement: The course type is indicated by the letter in 5th place in the course code - we can accept U, M and C courses
Qualification: Prince Edward Island - High School Graduation Diploma Requirement: The first number in the course code indicates the grade.
8 = Grade 11 or 12
Qualification: Saskatchewan - Grade 12 standing/Division IV Standing Requirement: 30 = Grade 12
Qualification: Yukon - Senior Secondary Graduation Diploma Requirement: The number at the end of the course title and the course code indicate the level e.g.
EN12 is Grade 12 English
Qualification: Bachelor degree Requirement: 2:1 = 3.4 or 73% | 2:2 = 2.3/4 or 66%
Qualification: Certificado de Habiltações Literárias 3°Ciclo Requirement: 8-13
Qualification: Certificado de Habiltações Literárias 3°Ciclo Requirement: 10-13
Qualification: First year entry - ertificado de Habiltações Literárias 3°Ciclo Requirement: 14
Qualification: Final year entry - Grau de Bacharel Requirement: 14
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: 2:1 = 16 | 2:2 = 14
Qualification: Bachelor degree from the University of the West Indies Requirement: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: 12/20
Qualification: Diplome d’Etudes Universitaires Générales Requirement: 12
Qualification: Licence Requirement: 12
Qualification: e a Diplôme d'Ingénieur or Maîtrise Requirement: 2:1 = 14-16 | 2:2 = 12-13
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: 10
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: 12
Qualification: First year entry - Brevet de Technicien Supérieur / Diplome Universitaire de Lettres Modernes or Sciences or Sciences, Juridiques, Economiques et de Gestion Requirement: 14
Qualification: Final year entry - Licence Requirement: 14
Qualification: Diplome d’Etudes Approfondies Requirement: 2:1 = 14-15.9 | 2:2 = 12-13.9
Qualification: Licencia de Educación / Enseñanza Media Requirement: 2
Qualification: Licencia de Educación / Enseñanza Media Requirement: 3
Qualification: Second Year Entry - Técnico Superior or Técnico Universitario Requirement: 4
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: 2:1 = 5 | 2:2 = 4
Qualification: Certificate of Senior High School Requirement: Pass in Maths
Applicants are not eligible for this pathway as English is not studied as a first language; refer to IFP instead
Qualification: 高考 - National College Entrance Examination (Gaokao) Requirement: 45%
Qualification: First year entry - 高考 - National College Entrance Examination (Gaokao) Requirement: 50%
Qualification: First year entry - 中专 - Vocational High School Graduation Certificate (Zhongzhuan) Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Third year entry - 大专or高职 - Diploma (2.5-3 years) - such as: Junior College Program Graduation Certificate (Zhuanke)/ SQA Advanced Diploma Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Third year entry - Sub-degree or Gaozhi Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Bachelor degree certificate (学士学位) and Graduation Certificate （毕业证） Requirement: 70% and above
Qualification: Top up degree or self-study degree (自考zikao) will only provide Graduation Certificate and no Bachelor degree Requirement: 70% and above, relevant work experience and interview will be required if necessary.
Qualification: Yijin Diploma Requirement: 45% and above / IELTS 4.5 (4.0)
Qualification: Yijin Diploma Requirement: 50% and above / IELTS 4.5 (4.0)
Qualification: HKDSE Requirement: tbc
Qualification: Associate degree Requirement: Year 3 entry of a degree programmes depending on mapping.
GPA 2.5 and above
Qualification: Ordinary Bachelor Degree or Honours Bachelor Degree Requirement: GPA 3.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2:1 | GPA 2.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2:2
Qualification: Senior Secondary School Certificate Requirement: 45% and above / IELTS 4.5 (4.0) | Consider Senior Secondary School Certificate with University entrance examination to apply year one entry directly
Qualification: Senior Secondary School Certificate Requirement: 50% and above / IELTS 4.5 (4.0) | Consider Senior Secondary School Certificate with University entrance examination to apply year one entry directly
Qualification: Senior Vocational High School Certificate Requirement: 65% and above can be considered for year one entry in a relevant subject
Qualification: Associate degree Requirement: 65% and above can be considered for year 2 entry
Qualification: Bachelor degree Requirement: 75% is considered comparable to a UK 2:1 | 65% is considered comparable to a UK 2:2
Qualification: Título de Bachiller Requirement: Minimum desempeño alto
Qualification: First year entry - ICFES examination Requirement: Puesto of 1 – 400 (top 40% of students in the cohort) or puntaje of 70.
Qualification: First year entry - Técnico Profesional Requirement: 3.5
Qualification: Licenciatura or Maestro Requirement: 2:1 = 3.5 | 2:2 = 3.0
Qualification: Diplome de Bachielier de l’Enseignement du Second Degré Requirement: 14
Qualification: Diplome de Bachielier de l’Enseignement du Second Degré Requirement: 16
Qualification: First Year Entry - Baccalauréat Requirement: 12/20
Qualification: Three year Licence, Bachelor degree, Diplôme d'Etudes Superieures de Commerce, Diplôme d'Ingénieur or Maîtrise Requirement: 2:1 = 14/Bien | 2:2 = 12/ Assez Bien
Qualification: Diplome d’Etat d’Etudes Secondaires du Cycle Long Requirement: 50% when taken in academic stream only
Qualification: Diplome d’Etat d’Etudes Secondaires du Cycle Long Requirement: 60% when taken in academic stream only
Qualification: First Year Entry - Grad d’Ingénieur Technicien/Ingeniorat Technicien / Diplome de Technicien Supérieur (DTS) Requirement: 70% in a related subject
Qualification: First Year Entry - Graduat Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Final Year Entry - Diplome d’Ingénieur / Licence Requirement: 70% in a related subject
Qualification: Diplome d’Etudes Spéciales / Diplome d’Etudes Approfondies Requirement: 2:1 = 80% | 2:2 = 70%
Qualification: Bachiller en la Enseñanza Media Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Bachiller en la Enseñanza Media Requirement: 70%
Qualification: First Year Entry - Licenciatura Requirement: Overall pass and completion of all modules
Qualification: Second Year Entry - Diplomado or Técnico Requirement: 7
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: 2:1 = 8 | 2:2 = 7
Qualification: Título de Bachiller / Bachiller Tecnológico / Técnico Medio Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Título de Bachiller / Bachiller Tecnológico / Técnico Medio Requirement: 70%
Qualification: First Year Entry - Título de Técnico from an Instituto Politécnico de la Salud (Polytechnic Health Institute) Requirement: 3
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: 2:1 = 4 or Muy Bien | 2:2 = 3 or Bien
Qualification: Apolytirion Requirement: Minimum grade of 14
Qualification: Devlet Lise Diplomasi Requirement: Minimum grade of 50%
Qualification: Apolytirion Requirement: Minimum grade of 15
Qualification: Apolytirion Requirement: Minimum grade of 16
Qualification: Devlet Lise Diplomasi Requirement: Minimum grade of 60%
Qualification: Apolytirion Requirement: Minimum grade of 17
Qualification: Devlet Lise Diplomasi Requirement: Minimum grade of 70%
Qualification: Ptychion Requirement: 7.5 = 2:1 | 6.5 = 2:2
Qualification: Lisans Diploması (Bachelor degree) Requirement: 3.0 = 2:1 | 2.5 = 2:2
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: 8
Qualification: First year entry - Brevet de Technicien Supérieur Requirement: 12
Qualification: Maîtrise Requirement: 2:1 = 14 | 2:2 = 12
Qualification: Bachillerato - Secondary School Certificate Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Bachillerato - Secondary School Certificate Requirement: 70%
Qualification: a recognised International Foundation Year Requirement: Pass
Qualification: 4 year licenciatura Requirement: 2:1 = 80% | 2:2 = 70%
Qualification: Título de Bachiller Requirement: 6
Qualification: Título de Bachiller Requirement: 7
Qualification: Título de Tecnólogo Requirement: 14
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: 2:1 = 18/20 | 2:2 = 15/20
Qualification: Certificate of Gernal Secondary Education / العامة شهادة الدراسة الثانوية Requirement: 50% or pass
Qualification: Certificate of Gernal Secondary Education / العامة شهادة الدراسة الثانوية Requirement: 60% or good
Qualification: Al-Azhar Training Diploma / الدبلوم الأزهري Requirement: tbc
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / البكالوريوس Requirement: 65% for advanced standing
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / البكالوريوس Requirement: 2:1 = 80% | 2:2 = 65%
Qualification: Título de Bachiller Requirement: 4
Qualification: Título de Bachiller Requirement: 5
Qualification: Título de Técnico / Perito / Auxiliar Requirement: 6
Qualification: Sencon year entry - Técnico Superior / Diplomado Requirement: 7
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: 2:1 = 80% | 2:2 = 60%
Qualification: Eritrean Secondary Education Certificate Examination Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Eritrean Secondary Education Certificate Examination Requirement: C / Pass overall
Qualification: Diploma Requirement: B
Qualification: Bachelors Degree Requirement: B
Qualification: Bachelors Degree Requirement: 2:1 = minimum 3.0 | 2:2 = minimum 2.5
Qualification: Masters Degree Requirement: 2:1 = minimum 3.0 | 2:2 = minimum 2.5
Qualification: Ethiopian School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 45%
Qualification: Ethiopian Higher Education Entrance Qualification Certificate Requirement: 230
Qualification: Ethiopian School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Ethiopian Higher Education Entrance Qualification Certificate Requirement: 250
Qualification: First year entry - 3-4 years Bachelor Degree Requirement: GPA of 2/4
Qualification: Second year - 3-4 Year Bachelor Degree Requirement: GPA of 3/4
Qualification: Third year - 4-7 Year Bachelor Degree Requirement: GPA of 3/4
Qualification: Master’s Degree Requirement: 3.5/4 = 2:1 | 2.5/4 = 2:2
Qualification: Fiji School Leaving Certificate Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Fiji School Leaving Certificate Requirement: C / Pass overall
Qualification: Fiji Seventh Form Certificate Examination Requirement: B
Qualification: Bachelor degree Requirement: 2:1 = B+ | 2:2 = C+
Qualification: Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen (Matriculation Examination) Requirement: 4
Qualification: Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen (Matriculation Examination) Requirement: 4.5
Qualification: Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen (Matriculation Examination) Requirement: 5
Qualification: Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen (Matriculation Examination) Requirement: 5.5
Qualification: Ammattikorkeakoulututkinto, AMK / Yrkeshögskoleexamen, YHS (Polytechnic degree) Requirement: 2:1 = 2.0/3.0 or 4.0/5.0 | 2:2 = 1.5/3.0 or 3.0/5.0
Qualification: Kandidaatti / Kandidat (Lower academic degree) Requirement: 2:1 = 2.0/3.0 or 4.0/5.0 | 2:2 = 1.5/3.0 or 3.0/5.0
Qualification: Option Internationale du Baccalauréat Requirement: 12
Qualification: Option Internationale du Baccalauréat Requirement: Please refer to the UCAS tariff charts below.
Qualification: Option Internationale du Baccalauréat Requirement: UCAS tariff charts for direct entry 10 = 64 - 72 Tariff Points, 11 = 80 - 96 Tariff Points, 12 = 104 - 112 Tariff Points, 13 = 120 Tariff Points, 14 = 128 Tariff Points, Subject specific 11
Qualification: Licence / Grade de Licence and Licence Requirement: 2:1 = 13/20 | 2:2 = 11/20
Qualification: Professionnelle / Grade de Licence Professionnelle Requirement: 2:1 = 13/20 | 2:2 = 11/20
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: Assez Bien
Qualification: First year entry - Diplome d’Etudes Universitaires Générales | Brevet de Technicien Supérieur Requirement: 13
Qualification: Third year entry - Diplome Universitaire d’Etudes Licence Requirement: Assez Bien
Qualification: Diplôme d'Ingénieur or Maîtrise Requirement: 2:1 = Bien | 2:2 = Assez Bien
Qualification: West African Senior School Certificate Examination | General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: C6 in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: General Certificate of Education Advanced Level Requirement: tbc
Qualification: Advanced Diploma from Management Development Institute Requirement: CGPA 2.00/C/54%
Qualification: HND from Gambia Technical Training Institute Requirement: CGPA 2.00/C/54%
Qualification: Registered Nurse Certificate - awarded by the Gambia College only Requirement: CGPA 2.00/C/54%
Qualification: General Certificate of Education Advanced Level Requirement: C
Qualification: Advanced Diploma from Management Development Institute Requirement: CGPA 2.30/C+/57%
Qualification: HND from Gambia Technical Training Institute Requirement: CGPA 2.30/C+/57%
Qualification: Registered Nurse Certificate - awarded by the Gambia College only Requirement: CGPA 2.30/C+/57%
Qualification: Third year entry - Bachelors Degree Requirement: CGPA 2.7/B-/60%
Qualification: Master Degree Requirement: 2:1 = 3.3 | 2.2 = 2.2
Qualification: სრული ზოგადი განათლების ატესტატი - Secondary School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 3/4 or 6/10
Qualification: სრული ზოგადი განათლების ატესტატი - Secondary School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 4/4 or 8/10
Qualification: A recognised International Foundation year Requirement: Pass
Qualification: ბაკალავრის დიპლომი / Bachelor Degree | განათლების დიპლომი / Specialist Diploma Requirement: Applicants with the below grades can be accepted as long as the institution is recognised on Ecctis.
International Black Sea University / Georgian Technical University: 71% = 2:1 60% = 2:2
Tblisi State University of Economic Relations: 70% = 2:1 50% = 2:2
Tblisis Eqqvtime Takaishvili State University of Art and Culture: 81% =2:1
Qualification: Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife / Abitur Requirement: 4 in Maths and 10/gut in English language taken as Hauptfach/Leistungskurs/ Kurs mit erhöhtem Anforderungsniveau
Qualification: Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife / Abitur Requirement: Please refer to the UCAS tariff charts below
Qualification: Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife / Abitur Requirement: UCAS tariff charts for direct entry:
4 = 64 - 72 Tariff Points 3 = 80 - 112 Tariff Points 2 = 120 - 128 Tariff Points
Subject specific grade 10
Qualification: Bachelor Requirement: 2:1 = 3.5, 2.2 = 2.5
Qualification: Fachhochschuldiplom / Diplom (FH) Requirement: 2:1 = 3.5, 2.2 = 2.5
Qualification: West African Senior School Certificate Examination | General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: C6 in English Language and Maths only.
English must be studied as a first language for FPP
Qualification: Ordinary National Diploma Requirement: GCPA of 2.0
Qualification: General Certificate of Education Advanced Levels Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: First year entry - Ordinary National Diploma Requirement: GCPA of 2.5
Qualification: First year entry - General Certificate of Education Advanced Levels Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Third year entry - Higher National Diploma Requirement: GCPA of 2.5
Qualification: Bachelor degree Requirement: Directly comparable to UK
Gibraltar follows the UK education system.
Details of the academic requirements for your course can be found on our course finder .
Qualification: ΑΠΟΛΥΤΗΡΙΟ ΛΥΚΕΙΟΥ (Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate) / Apolytirio Requirement: 16
Qualification: ΑΠΟΛΥΤΗΡΙΟ ΛΥΚΕΙΟΥ (Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate) / Apolytirio Requirement: 17
Qualification: ΑΠΟΛΥΤΗΡΙΟ ΛΥΚΕΙΟΥ (Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate) / Apolytirio Requirement: 18
Qualification: ΠΤΥΧΙΟ / Ptychío Requirement: 2:1 = 7.0 | 2:2 = 6.0
Qualification: Bachiller Requirement: 45% from a Public School | 50% from a Private School
Qualification: Bachiller Requirement: 55% from a Public School | 65% from a Private School
Qualification: Técnico Universitario Requirement: 71% from a Public Institution for 3rd year entry
Qualification: Diplomado Grado Académico de Baccalaureatus Requirement: 81% from a Private Institution for 3rd year entry
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: Public Universities: 2:1 = 81% | 2:2 = 71% Private Universities: 91% = 2:1 = 91% | 2:2 = 81%
Qualification: Baccalauréat Unique, 2éme partie Requirement: 11-12
Qualification: Baccalauréat Unique, 2éme partie Requirement: 12-13
Qualification: First year entry - Diplôme d’Études Universitaires Générales Requirement: Score of 14 overall and 14 in all subjects
Qualification: Third year entry - Licence / Diplôme d’Ingénieur / Diplôme de Docteur en Médecine Requirement: Score of 14 overall and 14 in all subjects
Qualification: Master/ Maîtrise /Diplôme d’Études Supérieures/ Diplôme d’Études Approfondies Requirement: 2:1 = 14 or Bien | 2:2 = 12 or Assez Bien
Qualification: Certidão – 11a Classe do Ensino Secundário Certificado do Ensino Secundário Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Certidão – 11a Classe do Ensino Secundário Certificado do Ensino Secundário Requirement: C / Pass overall
Qualification: Bacharelato or Licenciatura Requirement: Successfully completed
Qualification: Bacharelato or Licenciatura followed by a pre-masters Requirement: Successfully completed
Qualification: Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate from 1998 Requirement: Score of 3 at General Proficiency
Qualification: 2-3 year Associate degree | Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) Requirement: Score of IV
Qualification: LLB Requirement: LLB is marked as follows: A / 1st / 4.0 B / 2:1 / 3.5 C / 2:2 / 3.0 D / Pass / 2.0 F / Fail /1.0
Qualification: Bachelor Degree in Medicine/Surgery Requirement: Bachelor degree in Medicine/Surgery is marked as follows: A / 75%-100% / Distinction / 4.0 B / 65% 74% / Good / 3.0 C / 55% - 64% / Satisfactory / 2.0 D / 40% 54% / Minimal Pass / 1.0 F / 0% - 39% / Fail / 0.0
Qualification: Master’s degree or Graduate Diploma for all other subjects Requirement: For all other subjects, the standard marking system is comparable to that used in the UK
Qualification: Baccalauréat (reformed system) | Baccalauréat II | Diplôme d’Enseignement Secondaire Requirement: 5/10 or 50%
Qualification: Baccalauréat (reformed system) | Baccalauréat II | Diplôme d’Enseignement Secondaire Requirement: 6/10 or 60%
Qualification: First year entry - Diplôme d’Etudes Supérieures Requirement: 7/10 or 70%
Qualification: Second year entry - Maîtrise Requirement: 8/10 or 80%
Qualification: Maîtrise Requirement: 2:1 = 80% | 2:2 = 70%
Qualification: Diploma in Scienze Religiose Requirement: Completion for 3rd year entry Requirements will vary dependant on scoring system used and applications will be considered on a case by case basis
Qualification: Magistero in Scienze Religiose | Licenciate completed before 2004 | Baccalaureate completed after 2005 Requirement: Requirements will vary dependant on scoring system used and applications will be considered on a case by case basis
Qualification: Bachillerato, Perito, Bachiller Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Bachillerato, Perito, Bachiller Requirement: 65%
Qualification: First year entry - Diploma de Técnico Requirement: 70%
Qualification: First year entry - Diploma de Técnico Universitario Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Third year entry - Técnico Universitario Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Third year entry - Bachillerato Universitario Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirement: 80% = 2:1 | 70% = 2:2
Qualification: 港中學文憑 / Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) Requirement: Level 2 Maths, level 4 English Language only
Qualification: 港中學文憑 / Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) Requirement: Please refer to the UCAS tariff charts below
Qualification: First year entry - 港中學文憑 / Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) Requirement: UCAS tariff charts for direct entry
Core and Elective Subjects:
5** = 56 Tariff Points 5* = 52 Tariff Points 5 = 48 Tariff Points 4 = 32 Tariff Points 3 = 16 Tariff Points
Category A Mathematics - Core Mathematics only:
5** = 28 Tariff Points 5* = 26 Tariff Points 5 = 24 Tariff Points 4 = 16 Tariff Points 3 = 8 Tariff Points
Category A Mathematics - Extension Mathematics only:
GPA of 2.5 for 3rd year entry (dependent upon module mapping)
Qualification: Third year entry - 副學士學位 Associate degree Requirement: GPA 2.0
Qualification: 學士學位 / Ordinary Bachelor Degree, 學士學位 榮譽 / Honours Bachelor Degree Requirement: GPA of 3.0 or grade B = 2:1, GPA of 2.0 or grade C = 2:2
Requirements will vary dependant on scoring system used and applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis
A+ / 4.3 / Excellent A / 4.0 / Excellent A- / 3.7 / Excellent B+ / 3.3 / Good B / 3.0 / Good B- / 2.7 / Good C+ / 2.3 / Adequate C / 2.0 / Adequate C- / 1.7 / Adequate D / 1.0 / Marginal Pass F / 0.0 / Fail
Many universities in Hong Kong use the same marking system and classifications as in the UK.
Qualification: Érettségi Bizonyítvány (Secondary Education Graduation Certificate / Matura) Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Érettségi Bizonyítvány (Secondary Education Graduation Certificate / Matura) Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Érettségi Bizonyítvány (Secondary Education Graduation Certificate / Matura) Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Alapfokozat, Egyetemi Oklevél and Főiskolai Oklevél Requirement: 2:1 = 4.0 | 2:2 = 3.0
Qualification: Lokaprof af hönnunarbrau Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Lokaprof af hönnunarbrau Requirement: 5/10
Qualification: Stúdentspróf Requirement: 6/10
Qualification: Baccalaureatus Requirement: 2:1 = 7.25 | 2:2 = 6.0
Qualification: Standard 12 Requirement: Grade C/50% in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: Standard 12 Requirement: Not eligible because English is not studied as a first language.
Refer to IFP instead as this country does not teach in English
Qualification: Standard 12 Requirement: 60% overall
Qualification: Standard 12 Requirement: 65% overall
Qualification: Degree Requirement: 50% = 2:2/55% = 2:1 for following institutions: University of Delhi University of Chennai University of Kolkata University of Bangalore University of Mumbai Savitribai Phule Pune University (formerly University of Pune)
Qualification: Degree from a recognised institution Requirement: 55% = 2:2/60% = 2:1 for all other Ecctis or UGC India recognised institutions
Qualification: SMA/MA (Certificate of Graduation from Academic/Islamic School) Requirement: 5
Qualification: SMA/MA (Certificate of Graduation from Academic/Islamic School) Requirement: 6
Qualification: First year entry - D1 Requirement: 2.5
Qualification: Second year entry - D2 Requirement: 2.5
Qualification: Third year entry - D3 Requirement: 2.5
Qualification: Sarjana I | Diploma IV Requirement: 2:1 = 3.0 | 2:2 = 2.5
Qualification: Pre-University Certificate (1992- 2018) Requirement: 12 in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: High School Diploma - theorectical stream (no longer awarded) - Studied 4 Years Requirement: Pass in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: High School Diploma - theorectical stream - Studied 3 Years Requirement: Pass Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: High School Diploma - Technical and Vocational Stream Requirement: 12 in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: High School Diploma - Work and Knowledge stream Requirement: Pass in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: Pre-University Certificate / پیش دانشگاهی Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: Pre-University Certificate / پیش دانشگاهی Requirement: 12/20
Qualification: University Entrance Examination /کنکر Requirement: refer to ECCTIS
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / ک لیسانس | Licence / ل ی س ا ن س Requirement: 2:1 = 15/20 or 75% | 2:2 = 13/20 or 70%
Qualification: Sixth Form Baccalaureate / ال ثا ن وی ة / االع داد ی ة ا ل درا س ة شه ادة Requirement: 45% for non-Engineering and Technology pathways | 50% for Technology/Foundation pathways
Qualification: Sixth Form Baccalaureate / ال ثا ن وی ة / االع داد ی ة ا ل درا س ة شه ادة Requirement: 50% for non-Engineering and Technology pathways | 55% for Technology/Foundation pathways
Qualification: Students will need to complete a recognised International Foundation Year for entrance onto Bachelor degree programmes Requirement: Bachelor degree* with 60% (may be considered for advanced standing on a case by case basis) | *comparable to DipHE | **technical/professional subjects comparable to HND
Qualification: Bachelor Degree in Medicine/Dental Surgery/Engineering / ا له ند س ة / اإل س ن ا ن طب / ال جراحة و ا ل طب ] ف ي ا ل ب كال وری وس 4 Year Bachelor Degree Requirement: 75%-89% = 2:1 | 60%-74% = 2:2
Qualification: Sixth Form Baccalaureate Requirement: Pass in all modules, minimum 45%
Qualification: Sixth Form Baccalaureate Requirement: Pass in all modules, minimum 50%
Qualification: Students will need to complete a recognised International Foundation Year for entrance onto Bachelor degree programmes Requirement: N/A
Qualification: 4 Year Bachelor Degree Requirement: 75%-89% = 2:1 | 60%-74% = 2:2
Qualification: Irish Leaving Certificate Requirement: Directly comparable on UCAS Tariff
Qualification: Higher Level Irish Leaving Certificate Requirement: Directly comparable on UCAS Tariff: pre 2017 - select only 3 subjects / post 2017 - select all 6 subjects
Qualification: Higher Level Irish Leaving Certificate Requirement: Directly comparable on UCAS Tariff: pre 2017 - select only 3 subjects / post 2017 - select all 6 subjects For a subject specific course we can accept a combination of two subjects totalling 44 points
Qualification: Honours Bachelors Degree Requirement: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: High School Diploma / גמר ת'תכוב תעןדת Requirement: 50%
Qualification: High School Diploma / גמר ת'תכוב תעןדת Requirement: 65%
Qualification: First year entry = Matrciulation Certificate / תעודת בגרות Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / תואר ראשון Requirement: 2:1 = 75% | 2:2 = 65%
Qualification: Diploma di Esame di Stato Requirement: 60% / Pass in Maths
Qualification: Diploma di Esame di Stato Requirement: Please refer to the UCAS tariff charts below
Qualification: Diploma di Esame di Stato Requirement: UCAS tariff charts for direct entry:
60% = 64 - 72 Tariff Points 65% = 80 - 88 Tariff Points 70% = 96  - 112 Tariff Points 75% = 120 Tariff Points 80% = 128 Tariff Points
Subject specific grade 7
Qualification: Diploma Accademico di Primo Livello Requirement: 2:1 = 100, 2:2 = 95
Qualification: Baccalauréat Technique Requirement: 10 in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: Diplôme de Bachelier de l’Enseignement du Second Degré Requirement: 10 in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: Brevet de Technicien Supérieur Requirement: 10/20
Diplôme Universitaire de Technologie Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: First year entry - Brevet de Technicien Supérieur Requirement: 14/20
Qualification: First year entry - Diplôme Universitaire de Technologie Requirement: 14/20
Qualification: Third year entry - Licence Requirement: 14/20
Qualification: Diplôme d’Ingénieur Requirement: 2:1 = 14 or Bien
Qualification: Diplôme d’Études Supérieures Requirement: 2:2 = 12 or Assez Bien
Qualification: Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate from 1998 | The GCE Ordinary level is comparable in terms of grading and equivalence to UK GCSEs Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate from 1998 | The GCE Ordinary level is comparable in terms of grading and equivalence to UK GCSEs Requirement: C / Pass overall
Qualification: Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) | The GCE Advanced level is comparable in terms of grading and equivalence to UK A levels Requirement: IV
Qualification: Bachelor Degree accredited by the University Council of Jamaica Requirement: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate / 高等学校卒業証書 Requirement: Score of 2
Qualification: Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate / 高等学校卒業証書 Requirement: Score of 3
Qualification: Associate Degree / 準学士 | Diploma / 専門士 Requirement: 60% for 2nd year entry
Qualification: Bachelor / 学士 | Advanced Diploma / 高度専門士 Requirement: 80% = 2:1 | 70% = 2:2 Outstanding / 90%-100% / S Excellent / 80%-89% / A Good / 70%-79% / B Pass / 60%-69% / C Fail / 59% and below / F
Qualification: General Certificate of Secondary Education / ال عام ة ا ل ثا ن وی ة ا ل درا س ة شه ادة Requirement: 50%
Qualification: General Certificate of Secondary Education / ال عام ة ا ل ثا ن وی ة ا ل درا س ة شه ادة Requirement: 60%
Qualification: First year entry - Intermediate Diploma/Associate Degree (Community College Diploma) / ا ل مج تمع ك ل ی ات د ب ل وم Requirement: 63%
Qualification: Second year entry - Intermediate Diploma/Associate Degree (Community College Diploma) / ا ل مج تمع ك ل ی ات د ب ل وم Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / البكالوريوس Requirement: 2:1 = minimum 3.0 | 2:2 = minimum 2.5
Qualification: Certificate of Completed Secondary Education / Oрта білім туралы аттестат Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Certificate of Completed Secondary Education / Oрта білім туралы аттестат Requirement: Score of 3.0/5.0
Qualification: Diploma of Secondary Vocational Education / Диплом о среднем профессиональном образовании Requirement: Score of 3.5/5.0
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / Диплом бакалавра | Specialist Diploma / Диплом специалиста Requirement: 2:1 = minimum 4.5 | 2:2 = minimum 4.0
Qualification: Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Ordinary Diploma Requirement: 40%/Pass
Qualification: University Diploma Requirement: 40%/Pass
Qualification: Ordinary Technical Diploma Requirement: 40%/Pass
Qualification: First year entry - University Diploma Requirement: 60%
Qualification: First year entry - Ordinary Diploma Requirement: 60%
Qualification: First year entry - Ordinary Technical Diploma Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Third year entry - Higher Diploma Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Third year entry - Higher Technical Diploma Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Bachelor Degree Degrees issued by private institutions must have national recognition from Commission for University Education Requirement: 2:1 = 60% | 2:2 = 50%
Qualification: Diploma for High School Graduation / Diplomë për Kryerjen e Shkollës së Mesme të Lartë Requirement: 2.5
Qualification: Diploma for High School Graduation / Diplomë për Kryerjen e Shkollës së Mesme të Lartë Requirement: 3
Qualification: Diploma for High School Graduation / Diplomë për Kryerjen e Shkollës së Mesme të Lartë Requirement: 3.5
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / Diplomë e Studimeve Themelore Universitare – Baҫelor Requirement: 2:1 = 9 | 2:2 = 8
Qualification: Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama (General Seconday Education Certificate) / ال عام ة ا ل ثا ن وی ة ا ل درا س ة شه ادة Requirement: 60% in Maths (and English tbc)
Qualification: Diploma / د ب ل وم Certificate from PAAET Institute / ال تدر ی ب و ا ل تط ب ی ق ي ل ل ت ع ل یم ا ل عام ة اله ی ئ ة م ع اهد م ن شه ادة
Institutes: Higher Institute of Telecommunication and Navigation (males and females) High Institute of Energy (males only) Institutes of Secretarial Studies and Office Management (males and females) Institute of Tourism, Beauty and Fashion (males and females) Special Training Courses (males and females) Industrial Training Institute/Sabah Al-Salem (males only) Industrial Training Institute/Shuwaikh (males only) Constructive Training Institute (males only) Nursing Institute (males and females) Vocational Training Institute (males only) Applied Education and Research Colleges Requirement: GPA of 2.00/ 73%/ C
Qualification: First year entry - Diploma / د ب ل وم First year entry - Certificate from PAAET Institute / ال تدر ی ب و ا ل تط ب ی ق ي ل ل ت ع ل یم ا ل عام ة اله ی ئ ة م ع اهد م ن شه ادة
Institutes: Higher Institute of Telecommunication and Navigation (males and females) High Institute of Energy (males only) Institutes of Secretarial Studies and Office Management (males and females) Institute of Tourism, Beauty and Fashion (males and females) Special Training Courses (males and females) Industrial Training Institute/Sabah Al-Salem (males only) Industrial Training Institute/Shuwaikh (males only) Constructive Training Institute (males only) Nursing Institute (males and females) Vocational Training Institute (males only) Applied Education and Research Colleges Requirement: GPA of 2.33/ 77%/ C+
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / البكالوريوس Requirement: Score of 3.3-3.6 = 2:1 | Score of 2.6-3.2 = 2:2
Qualification: Certificate of Completed Secondary Education / Жалпы орто билим туралуу аттестат Requirement: 3
Qualification: Certificate of Completed Secondary Education / Жалпы орто билим туралуу аттестат Requirement: 3.5
Qualification: Qualification Diploma / Кесипчилик техникалык билим тууралуу диплом | Junior Specialist Diploma / Диплом о присвоении квалификации Requirement: 3.5
Qualification: Specialist Diploma / Диплом специалиста | Bachelor Degree / Диплом бакалавра Requirement: 2:1 = minimum 4.0 | 2:2 = minimum 3.5
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: Pass all modules with minimum average of 45%
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: Pass all modules with minimum average of 50%
Qualification: First year entry - Bachelors Degree Requirement: Successfully complete degree
Qualification: Third year entry - University Diploma Requirement: Successfully complete degree
International Foundation Programme (IFP) Qualification: Baccalauréat General / ا ل ب ك ا ل وری ا Requirement: 12 for Engineering and Technology Qualification: Baccalauréat Technique / البكالوريا تقنية Requirement: 10 for other subjects Foundation Pathway Programme (FPP) Qualification: Baccalauréat General / ا ل ب ك ا ل وری ا Requirement: 12 for Engineering and Technology Qualification: Baccalauréat Technique / البكالوريا تقنية Requirement: 10 for other subjects Undergraduate with foundation year Qualification: Baccalauréat General / ا ل ب ك ا ل وری ا Requirement: 12 for Engineering and Technology Qualification: Baccalauréat Technique / البكالوريا تقنية Requirement: 10 for other subjects Undergraduate Qualification: First year entry - Diplôme de Technicien Supérieur / التميز الفني Requirement: 75% Qualification: Third year entry - Diploma of Technical Licence/Licence Requirement: 75% Postgraduate Qualification: Bachelor Degree / البكالوريوس, Licence / الإجازة Requirement: 2:1 = minimum 80%, 2:2 = minimum 70% الإجازة
Qualification: Senior School Certificate Requirement: 5
Qualification: Senior School Certificate Requirement: 6
Qualification: First year entry - Associate Degree Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Third year entry - Bachelors Degree Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Master's Degree Requirement: 2:1 = B or 80%, 2:2 = C or 70%
Qualification: Secondary Education Certificate / العامة شهادة الدراسة الثانوية Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Secondary Education Certificate / العامة شهادة الدراسة الثانوية Requirement: 60%
Qualification: First year entry - Higher Diploma / الدبلوم العالي Requirement: 63%
Qualification: Second year entry - Higher Diploma / الدبلوم العالي Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / البكالوريوس / الليسانس Requirement: 2:1 = minimum 75%, 2:2 = minimum 65%
Qualification: E Matura Requirement: 3
Qualification: E Matura Requirement: 3.5
Qualification: Type B - E Matura Requirement: 4.0
Qualification: Bachelor Degree Requirement: 2:1 = 5.5, 2:2 = 5
Qualification: Brandos Atestatas (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) Requirement: 7
Qualification: Brandos Atestatas (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) Requirement: 8
Qualification: Brandos Atestatas (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) Requirement: 9
Qualification: Bakalauro Diplomas (Bachelor degree) Requirement: 2:1 = 8/10, 2:2 = 7/10
Qualification: Cambridge Overseas School Certificate / GCE O levels Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only Additional comments: Directly comparable to UK GCSEs
Qualification: Certificate of Higher Secondary Education or Form 6 Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only Additional comments: Directly comparable to UK GCSEs
Qualification: Cambridge Overseas School Certificate / GCE O levels Requirement: C / Pass overall Additional comments: Directly comparable to UK GCSEs
Qualification: Certificate of Higher Secondary Education or Form 6 Requirement: C / Pass overall Additional comments: Directly comparable to UK GCSEs
Qualification: First Year Entry -  Ensino Secundário Complementar Requirement: C / Pass overall Additional comments: Directly comparable to UK GCSEs
Qualification: First Year Entry - Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate/GCE A levels Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: 學士學位/ Licenciatura / Bachelor degree Requirements:
University of Macau:
Macau University of Science and Technology:
Qualification: First Year Entry - Диплома за положен завршен испит (Secondary School Leaving Diploma) or Државната матура (Matura) Requirement: 2.5
Qualification: First Year Entry - Диплома за положен завршен испит (Secondary School Leaving Diploma) or Државната матура (Matura) Requirement: 3.0
Qualification: First Year Entry - Диплома за положен завршен испит (Secondary School Leaving Diploma) or Државната матура (Matura) Requirement: 3.4
Qualification: Дипломиран / Баццалауреус / Баццалауреа - Bachelor degree or Диплома за завршено високо образование VII/1 степен - Diploma of Completed Higher Education (Level VII/1) Requirements: 2:1 = 8, 2:2 = 7
Qualification: Baccalauréat de l'Enseignement du Second Degré Requirement: 8
Qualification: Baccalauréat de l'Enseignement du Second Degré Requirement: 10
Qualification: First Year Entry - Diplôme Universitaire d'Études Littéraires / Scientifiques or Diplôme Universitaire de Technicien Supérieur Requirement: 12
Qualification: Diplome d'Ingenieur Requirements: 2:1 = 14-15, 2:2 = 12-13
Qualification: Malawi School Certificate of Education Requirement: 5
Qualification: Malawi School Certificate of Education Requirement: 6
Qualification: First Year Entry - Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate/ General Certificate of Education Advanced Level Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Final Year Entry  - Completed Bachelor degree in non-law, medicine or surgery) Requirement: Pass
Qualification: Bachelor of Laws (Honours studied for 4 years), Bachelor degree in Engineering or Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery/Doctor of Veterinary Medicine 5 or 6 years long awarded by a Public University or a Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Optometry 5 years long studied at the Mzuzu University or A Master’s degree Requirements: 2:1  = 5 or 75%, 2:2  = 4 or 60%
Qualification: Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia – Malaysia Certificate of Education Requirement: 5 or C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia – Malaysia Certificate of Education Requirement: 6 or C
Qualification: First Year Entry - e Unified Examinations Certificate (UEC) Requirement: 65% or B5
Qualification: Final Year Entry - Diplomas Requirement: 2.5
Qualification: Bachelor degree registered within the Malaysian Qualifications register Requirements: 2:1 = 3.0, 2:2 = 2.5
Qualification: UCLES O level / Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Requirement: 5 or C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: UCLES O level / Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Requirement: 6
Qualification: First Year Entry - UCLES A level / Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC) Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Bachelor degree from the Maldives National University Requirements: 2:1 = minimum 4.0, 2:2 = minimum 3.5
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: 11-12
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: 12-13
Qualification: First Year Entry - Diplôme de Technicien Supérieur / Sciences Appliquees or Diplôme d’Études Universitaires Générales or Diplôme Universitaire de Technologie Requirement: 14
Qualification: Second Year Entry - Diplôme de Licence Requirement: 14
Qualification: Final Year Entry - Diplôme d’Ingénieur / Master / Diplôme de Maitrise Requirement: 14
Qualification: Diplôme de Licence Requirements: Pass all modules
Qualification: Master / Diplôme de Maitrise Requirements: Pass all modules
Qualification: Advanced Matriculation Requirement: CC+CCC Grades
Qualification: Matriculation Certificate Examination Requirement: CC+CCC Grades
Qualification: Advanced Matriculation Requirement: BB+BBB Grades
Qualification: Matriculation Certificate Examination Requirement: BB+BBB Grades
Qualification: Advanced Matriculation Requirement: AB+ABB Grades
Qualification: Matriculation Certificate Examination Requirement: AB+ABB Grades
Qualification: Bachelors Degree from the University of Malta of MCAST Requirements: 2:1 = 70%, 2:2 = 65%
Qualification: Baccalauréat / Diplôme de Bachelier de I'Enseignement du Second Degré Requirement: 10
Qualification: Baccalauréat / Diplôme de Bachelier de I'Enseignement du Second Degré Requirement: 12
Qualification: First Year Entry - Brevet de Technicien Supérieur /Diplôme d'Études Universitaires Générales Requirement: 12
Qualification: Maîtrise Requirements: 2:1 = 14, 2:2 = 12
Qualification: Holders of the General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Holders of the General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: 5 subjects at grade C
Qualification: First Year Entry - The Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate / General Certificate of Education Advanced Level Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Final Year Entry - University Diplomas Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Bachelor Degree Requirements: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: Título de Bachiller / Bachiller Tecnológico / Técnico Requirement: 5
Qualification: Título de Bachiller / Bachiller Tecnológico / Técnico Requirement: 6
Qualification: Second Year Entry - Técnico Superior Universitario / Profesional Asociado Requirement: 6
Qualification: Licenciatura - Degrees issued by private institutions must have national recognition (Reconocimiento de Validez Oficial de Estudios) from the Subsecretaría de Educación Requirements: 2:1 - 8 or 80%, 2:2 - 7 or 70%
Qualification: Atestat de Studii Medii de Cultură Generală - Certificate of Completed Secondary Education Requirement: 6
Qualification: Atestat de Studii Medii de Cultură Generală - Certificate of Completed Secondary Education Requirement: 7
Qualification: Diplomă de Bacalaureat Requirement: 7
Qualification: Diplomă de Licenţă Requirements: 2:1 = 8, 2:2 = 6
Qualification: Baccalauréat Requirement: 11
Qualification: Bachelors Degree Requirements: 2:1 = minimum 4.0 or B 2:2 = minimum 3.3 or C
Qualification: Бурэн дунд боловсролын унэмлэх (Certificate of Complete Secondary Education) Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Бурэн дунд боловсролын унэмлэх (Certificate of Complete Secondary Education) Requirement: 60%
Qualification: First Year Entry - ехникийн болосролын унэмлэх (Certificate of Technical Education) Requirement: 70% in each subject
Qualification: a Диплом Специалиста (Specialist diploma) or Бакалавр (Bachelor degree) Requirements: 2:1 = 3 GPA, 2:2 = 2.7 GPA
Qualification: e Maturski ispit / Diploma o završenoj srednjoj školi (Secondary School Leaving Diploma) Requirement: 2
Qualification: e Maturski ispit / Diploma o završenoj srednjoj školi (Secondary School Leaving Diploma) Requirement: 3
Qualification: Diploma o završenim osnovnim akademskim studijama - Diploma of Completed Academic Undergraduate Studies or Diploma primenjenih osnovnih studija - Diploma of Professional Undergraduate Studies Requirements: 2:1 = 4, 2:2 = 3
Qualification: e / Baccalauréat du Diplôme– / ال ب كا ل وری ا شه ا دة Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: e / Baccalauréat du Diplôme– / ال ب كا ل وری ا شه ا دة Requirement: 12/20
Qualification: First Year Entry - ال م ت خ صص ال ت ق ني دب لوم / السامي الت قني مؤهل -(Brevet de Technicien Supérieur / Diplôme de Technicien Spécialisé) Requirement: 12/20
Qualification: Licence or Diplome du Cycle Normal or Diplome d'Ecoles Nationales de Commerce et de Gestion or Diploma d'Ingenieur d'Etat or Diplome de Doctorate en Pharmacie Requirements: 2:1 = 14, 2:2 = 12
Qualification: Certificado de Habilitaçoes Literarias Requirement: 8
Qualification: Certificado de Habilitaçoes Literarias Requirement: 10
Qualification: First Year Entry - International Foundation Year Recognised Requirement: Pass
Qualification: Second Year Entry - Grau de Bacharel Requirement: 14
Qualification: Grau de Licenciado/Gau de Mestre Requirements: 2:1 = 14/20, 2:2 = 12/20
Qualification: Standard X Examination / Matriculation Examination Requirement: 40%
Qualification: Standard X Examination / Matriculation Examination Requirement: 45%
Qualification: First year entry - Associate Degree of Diploma Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Seond year entry - 3 Year Bachelor Degree Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Final year entry - 4 year Bachelor Degree Requirement: 50%
Qualification: 5-7 years Bachelor degree/Masters degree Requirements: 2:1 = 60% or GPA 3.5/5, 2:2 = 50% or GPA 2.5/5
Qualification: Namibia Senior Secondary Certificate (Ordinary Level) Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: The Cambridge Overseas School Certificate and GCE O Levels Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Namibia Senior Secondary Certificate (Ordinary Level) Requirement: C / Pass overall
Qualification: First Year Entry - Namibia Senior Secondary Certificate (Higher Level) Requirement: Minimum of 6 subjects
Qualification: First Year Entry - Polytechnic or University Diploma Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Final Year Entry - Bachelor degree prior to and including 2008 - Private Universities must be accredited by the Namibia Qualifications Authority (NQA) Requirement: Completed
Qualification: Bachelor programmes completed after 2008 and Master’s degrees, Bachelor degree must be level 7 or 8 on NQF of Namibia Requirements: 2:1 = 70%, 2:2 = 60%
Qualification: Standard 12 Requirement: 45% Proposed new requirement: 45%
Qualification: Standard 12 Requirement: 45% Proposed new requirement: 50%
Qualification: Standard 12, Proficiency Certificates/Diploma from Tribhuvan University and CTEVT /Bachelor's degree with 2-3 years duration for lateral entry into second year/ Bachelor's degree with 3-4 years for final year entry Requirement: 55%
Qualification: Degree from Tribhuvan University /Nepal University/Kathmandu University or other ECCTIS-recognised institutions Requirements: 55% Additional comments: Usually 4 or 5 years in length Proposed new requirement: Any ECCTIS-recognised university, GPA = 2:2 = 2.7, 2:1 = 3.0, 55% = 2:2, 60% = 2:1
Qualification: University Entrance Certificate with National Certificate in Educational Achievement Level 3 Requirement: more than 70 credits and a majority of Merits/Excellence
Qualification: University Entrance Certificate with National Certificate in Educational Achievement Level 3 Requirement: more than 75 credits and a majority of Merits/Excellence
Qualification: University Entrance Certificate with National Certificate in Educational Achievement Level 3 Requirement: more than 80 credits and a majority of Merits/Excellence
Qualification: Bachelors Degree Requirements: 2:1 = B, 2:2 = C
Qualification: Bachillerato Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Bachillerato Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Técnico Superior Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirements: 2:1 = 85%, 2:2 = 75%
Qualification: Baccalauréat / Diplôme de Bachelier de l’Enseignement du Second Degré Requirement: 11-12
Qualification: Baccalauréat / Diplôme de Bachelier de l’Enseignement du Second Degré Requirement: 12-13
Qualification: First Year Entry - e Brevet de Technicien Supérieur or Diplôme Universitaire d’Études Scientifiques/Litteraires/Economiques Generales Requirement: 14
Qualification: Licence Requirement: 14
Qualification: Diplôme d’Ingénieur / Diplôme d’Études Supérieures Spécialisées / Diplôme d’Études Approfondies Requirements: 2:1 = 14/Bien, 2:2 = 12/Assez Bien
Qualification: West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WAEC), NECO Senior School Certificate or General Certificate of Education Ordinary Requirement: C6 in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: National Diploma Requirement: C6 in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: West African GCE Advanced Levels Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: First year entry - National Diploma Requirement: CGPA 2.5
Qualification: First year entry - Ordinary National Diploma Requirement: CGPA 2.5
Qualification: First year entry - West African GCE Advanced Levels Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: First year entry - JUPEB Requirement: B profile
Qualification: Third year entry - Higher National Diploma Requirement: CGPA 2.5
Qualification: Bachelors Degree Requirements: 2:1 = 60-70% or Second Class Honours Upper Division, 2:2 = 50-59% or Second Class Honours Lower Division
Qualification: Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole - Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School) Requirement: Minimum score of 2.5
Qualification: Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole - Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School) Requirement: Minimum score of 3.0
Qualification: Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole - Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School) Requirement: Minimum score of 3.5
Qualification: KUC Students Requirement: Pass Diploma and at least 4 in English
Qualification: Bachelorgrad completed after 2002 / Candidatus Magisterii Requirements: 2:1 = 2.7/C/Good, 2:2 = 2.1
Qualification: General Education Diploma – ال عا م ال ت ع ل یم دب لوم Requirement: 50%
Qualification: General Education Diploma – ال عا م ال ت ع ل یم دب لوم Requirement: 60%
Qualification: First Year Entry - Diploma -  لوم دب ا Requirement: 65%, C+ or GPA 2.3
Qualification: Final Year Entry - e لوم دب / وم ل دب ي عال) Higher / Advanced Diploma Requirement: 65%, C+ or GPA 2.3
Qualification: Bachelor  Degree - ال ب كا ل وری وس Requirements: 2:1 = 3.0, 2:2 = 2.3
Qualification: Higher Secondary School Certificate Requirement: 60% in Maths, qualifications equivalent to grade C also accepted
Qualification: Not eligible because English is not studied as a first language.
Refer to IFP instead
Qualification: 2-3s year Bachelor's Degree Requirement: 33% / Division III
Qualification: Associate Degree Requirement: 33% / Division III
Qualification: FSc / FA / ICS / Intermediate, FSc (Faculty of Science), FA (Faculty of Arts), Pre-Medical Requirement: 70% Additional comments: This is a minimum 2 year qualification.
To be queried whether this can be accepted because it is equivalent to level 2
Qualification: First year entry - 2-3s year Bachelors Degree Requirement: 45% / Division II
Qualification: Second year entry - 3-4s years Bachelors Degree Requirement: 45% / Division II
Postgraduate Degree from a recognised institution:
Requirements: Any combination of study post grade 12, that adds up to 4 years or more meets the equivalency for an honours degree.
Common examples shown in the qualifications/institution field.
Qualification: General Secondary Education Certificate Requirement: 50%
Qualification: General Secondary Education Certificate Requirement: 60%
Second Year Entry - Community College Diploma Requirement: 70%
Postgraduate Qualification: Bachelor Degree Requirements: 2:1 = 80%, 2:2 = 70%
Qualification: Bachillerato Requirement: 2
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Requirement: 65% or C
Qualification: Bachillerato Requirement: 3
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Requirement: 75% or C
Qualification: First year entry - Tecnico Requirement: 71%
Postgraduate Qualification: Licenciatura Requirements: 2:1 = 81%, 2:2 = 71%
Qualification: Higher School Certificate Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Higher School Certificate Requirement: C / Pass overall
Qualification: Recognised International Foundation Year Requirement: Pass
Postgraduate Qualification: Honors Bachelor Degree Requirements: 2:1 = Class II Division A, 2:2 = Class II Division B
Qualification: Título de Bachillerato Requirement: 5/10 or 2/5
Qualification: Título de Bachillerato Requirement: 6/10 or 3/5
Qualification: First Year Entry - Titulo de Tecnologo Superior Requirement: 3/5
Postgraduate Qualification: Licenciatura Requirements: 2:1 = score of 4, 2:2 = Score of 3
Qualification: Certificado de Educación Secundaria Común Completa Requirement: 12
Qualification: Certificado de Educación Secundaria Común Completa Requirement: 13
Qualification: First year entry - Titulo de Profesional Tecnico Requirement: 13
Qualification: Third year entry - Titulo de profesional Requirement: 13
Postgraduate Qualification: Licenciatura / Grado Académico de Bachiller Requirements: 2:1 = 17, 2:2 = 15
Qualification: High School Diploma Requirement: 50%
Qualification: High School Diploma Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Second Year Entry - Bachelor Degree from Non-prestigious Universities Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Final  Year Entry - Bachelor degree in a Professional or Paramedical Subject Requirement: 70%
Postgraduate Bachelors or master’s degrees from the following institutions would be considered for entry to postgraduate programmes:
Requirements:
Qualification: Świadectwo Dojrzałości (Certificate of Maturity) Requirement: 30% in Maths and 60% in oral English with 85% written English basic level or 60% in oral English with 60% in written English at extended level
Applicants are not eligible for this pathway as English is not studied as a first language, refer to IFP instead
Qualification: Świadectwo Dojrzałości (Certificate of Maturity) Requirement: Please refer to the UCAS tariff charts below
Qualification: Świadectwo Dojrzałości (Certificate of Maturity) Requirement: UCAS tariff charts for direct entry:
30% = 64 Tariff Points 40% = 72 - 80 Tariff Points 50% = 88 - 104 Tariff Points 55% = 112 Tariff Points 60% =120 - 128 Tariff Points
Subject specific 50%
Qualification: Licencjat / Inżynier (Bachelor degree) Requirement: 2:1 = minimum 4.5, 2:2 = minimum 4.0
Qualification: Diploma Nível Secundário de Educação / Certificado Nível Secundário de Educação Requirement: 14
Qualification: Diploma Nível Secundário de Educação / Certificado Nível Secundário de Educação Requirement: 16
Qualification: Diploma Nível Secundário de Educação / Certificado Nível Secundário de Educação Requirement: 17
Qualification: Licenciado  / Diploma de estudos superiores especializados Requirement: 2:1 = 14/20, 2:2 = 13/20
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Requirement: D or 1.5
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma Requirement: C or 2.00
Qualification: Bachelors Degree Requirement: 2:1 = 80%, 2:2 = 70%
Qualification: Senior School Certificate (Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama) Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Senior School Certificate (Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama) Requirement: C or Good or 63%+
Qualification: First year entry - Associate Degree Requirement: 3
Qualification: First year entry - Associate Degree Requirement: 3.5
Qualification: Bachelors Degree Requirement: 2:1 = 3.60-4.39/5 GPA, 2:2 = 2.8-3.59/5 GPA
Qualification:  Bachelor degree / Specialist Diploma Requirement: 2:1 = 4.0, 2:2 = 3.5
Qualification: Diplomă de Bacalaureat (Baccalaureate Diploma) Requirement: 5 in Maths with an overall pass of 6
Qualification: Diplomă de Bacalaureat (Baccalaureate Diploma) Requirement: Please refer to the UCAS tariff charts below
Qualification: Diplomă de Bacalaureat (Baccalaureate Diploma) Requirement: UCAS tariff charts for direct entry
6 = 64 Tariff Points 6.5 = 72 - 88 Tariff Points 7 = 96 - 104 Tariff Points 7.5 = 112 Tariff Points 8 = 120 Tariff Points 8.5 = 128 Tariff Points
Subject Specific 7
Qualification:  Diplomă de Licenţă (Bachelor degree) Requirement: 2:1 = 8/10, 2:2 = 7/10
Qualification: Ordinary Level Certificate of Education Requirement: D1-C6
Qualification: Diplôme de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires w Requirement: 50%
Qualification: First year entry - Certificat du Cycle Supérieur de l'Enseignement Secondaire (Advanced General Certificate of Secondary Education) Requirement: 70%
Qualification: First year entry - Baccalauréat / Diplôme de Bachelier Requirement: 60% or C+
Qualification: Bachelor degree/ Diplôme de Docteur en Médecine Requirement: 2:1 = 70%, 2:2 = 60%
Qualification: Pacific Senior Secondary Certificate Requirement: 5
Qualification: New Zealand University Entrance Certificate Requirement: C1
Qualification: Pacific Senior Secondary Certificate Requirement: 6
Qualification: New Zealand University Entrance Certificate Requirement: C
Qualification: Final year entry - Bachelor degree from the National University of Samoa Requirement: C1
Qualification: Bachelor's Degree from the University of the South Pacific Requirement: 2:1 = B+, 2:2 = C+
Qualification: General Secondary Education Certificate Requirement: 65%
Qualification: General Secondary Education Certificate Requirement: 70%
Qualification: First Year Entry - Diploma from a Health College/Institute or Diploma from a technical college vocational institute Requirement: GPA 3.0/5
Qualification: Second year entry - Associate Degree in Health Sciences Requirement: 3.0/5
Qualification: Second year entry - Intermediate University Degree in Health Sciences Requirement: 3.0/5
Qualification: Bachelor's Degree Requirement: 2:1 = GPA 2.75/5 or 2.5/4, 2:2 = GPA 2.10/5 or 1.5/4
Qualification: First year entry - e Diplôme Universitaire d’Études Scientifiques/Litteraires/Economiques Generales Requirement: 14
Qualification: Second year entry - Brevet de Technicien Supérieur / Diplôme de Technicien Supérieur / Universitaire de Technologie Requirement: 14
Qualification: Third year entry  -  Diplôme d’Ingénieur Technologue / Licence Requirement: 14
Qualification: Diplôme d'Etudes Superieures, Diplôme d'Ingénieur, Diplôm,e d’Étuides Approfondies or Maîtrise Requirement: 2:1 = 14 or Bien, 2:2 = 12 or Assez Bien
Qualification: Diploma of Completed Final Examination Requirement: 2
Qualification: Diploma of Completed Final Examination Requirement: 3
Qualification: First Year Entry -  Диплома о положеном завршном испиту / Diploma o položenom završnom ispitu (Diploma of Completed Final Examination) Requirement: 3.5
Qualification: Дипломирани / Diplomirani - Bachelor degree or Диплома о стеченом високом образовању / Diploma o stečenom visokom obrazovanju - Advanced Diploma of Higher Education Requirement: 2:1 = 8, 2:2 = 7
Qualification: West African Senior School Certificate Examination / General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: West African Senior School Certificate Examination / General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Requirement: 5 passes at Grade C or above
Qualification: Final year entry - Pass/General Bachelor Degree Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Honours Bachelors Degree Requirement: Successfully completed
Qualification: Singapore / Cambridge GCE O Level Requirement: Grades 1-6 (A1-C6) in English Language and Maths
Qualification: Singapore / Cambridge GCE O Level Requirement: Grades 1-6 (A1-C6) in each subject
Qualification: Singapore / Cambridge GCE A Level Requirement: Equivalent to UK A Levels
Qualification: Integrated Programme Requirement: Equivalent to UK A Levels
Qualification: Polytechnic Certificate Requirement: Minimum score of 2.0, grade C or 60% for direct entry
Qualification: Polytechnic Advanced Diploma Requirement: Minimum GPA of 2.0, grade C or 60% for entry to final year
Bachelor's Degree from:
Bachelor Honours Degree from:
Requirement: 3.2/4.0 = UK 2:1, 2.5/4.0 = UK 2:2 or 4.0/5.0 = UK 2:1, 3.5/4.0 = UK 2:2.
The marking scale for Honours degrees is directly comparable to that used in the UK.
* Qualifications from private institutions registered with the Singapore Council for Private Education will be considered on a case by case basis.
Qualification: Pacific Senior Secondary Certificate Requirement: Minimum score of 5
Qualification: Solomon Islands School Certificate Requirement: Minimum grade of C in English Language and Maths
Qualification: International foundation year Requirement: Successfully completed
Qualification: Bachelor's degree from the University of the South Pacific Requirement: 2:1 = B+, 2:2 = C+
Qualification: Secondary School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Secondary School Leaving Certificate Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Second year entry - Laurea/Bachelor Requirement: 70%
Qualification: Third year entry - Laurea/Bachelor Requirement: 75%
Qualification: Bachelor's Degree Requirement: Successfully completed
Qualification: National Senior Certificate Requirement: 40% in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: National Senior Certificate Requirement: 60% overall
Qualification: National Senior Certificate Requirement: 70% overall
Qualification: Bachelor's Degree Requirement: 2:1 = 70%, 2:2 = 65%
Qualification: High School Diploma / 고등학교 졸업장 or 고등학교 과정 수료증 High School Graduation Equivalency Examination Requirement: Minimum score of 55% or grade C in English Language and Maths
Qualification: High School Diploma / 고등학교 졸업장 or 고등학교 과정 수료증 High School Graduation Equivalency Examination Requirement: Minimum score of 60% or grade C
Qualification: College Scholastic Aptitude and the High School Diploma, Junior College Diploma/Associate Degree / 준학사 Requirement: Minimum score of 250 in the CSA and 60% in the High School Diploma for direct entry, Minimum score of 80% or GPA 3/4.5 for entrance to second year
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / 학사 Requirements will vary dependant on recognition of Institution and scoring system used and applications will be considered as long as the institution is recognised by ECCTIS.
Typical scores:
Qualification: Título de Bachiller Requirement: 8
Qualification: Título de Grado Requirements: 2:1 = 7/10, 2:2 = 6/10
Qualification: Srilankan general certificate of Education ordinary level Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Srilankan general certificate of education advanced level Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Students with 3/4 years Bachelor's degree Requirements: 2:1 = 60% 0r 3.0, 2:2 = 50% or 2.7 Additional comments: Any degree that has a course title – rather than just stating GENERAL – from a recognised institution would be equivalent to a bachelor's degree.
Sri Lanka’s education system is very strong and one of the more closely aligned ones to the UK.
Please note that the GPA above does not match the percentage required.
This is because  GPA degrees are often stricter in grade allocation so 2.0/4.0 GPA would be a D grade or sometimes even less with some requiring 2.0 just to pass.
Qualification: Associate degree, Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) Requirement: IV
Qualification: Bachelor degree from the University of West Indies Requirements: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: Diploma from Sir Arthur Lewis Community College Requirement: 2.5/4
Qualification: Associate degree or Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) Requirement: IV
Qualification: Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies Requirements: UK
Qualification: Secondary School Certificate / شهادة الثانوية العامة Requirement: 45%
Qualification: Secondary School Certificate / شهادة الثانوية العامة Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Diploma (from a higher institution) / دبلوم Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Bachelor's Degree / درجة البكالوريوس Requirements: 2:1 = 80% / 3.0, 2:2 = 60% / 2.0
Qualification: HAVO Certificate Requirement: 6
Qualification: VWO Certificate Requirement: 5
Qualification: HAVO Certificate Requirement: 7
Qualification: VWO Certificate Requirement: 6
Qualification: Polytechnic College Certificate Requirement: Met Genoegen
Qualification: Bachelor or Masters Degree Requirements: Met Genoegen
Qualification: Cambridge Overseas School Certificate / GCE O Level Requirement: C or 4 in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: 2-3 years duration Bachelor Degree Requirement: Third/Pass
Qualification: First year entry - 2-3 years duration Bachelor Degree Requirement: 2:2
Qualification: Third year entry - 4-5 years duration Bachelor Degree Requirement: 2:2
Qualification: Masters Degree (must be accredited by the National Council for Higher Education) Requirements: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) Requirement: 14
Qualification: Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) Requirement: 16
Qualification: Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) Requirement: 18
Qualification: Bachelor degree / Kandidatexamen Requirements: 2:1 = VG, 2:2 = G
Qualification: General Secondary Certificate /  شهادة الثانوية العامة Requirement: Holders of the Al Shadhada al-Thanawiyya al-Amma with an overall score of 85% and 85% in relevant degree subject
Qualification: Associate Degree / درجة الزمالة Requirement: Minimum score of 70% for entrance to second year
Qualification: Bachelor Degree or Licence / درجة البكالوريوس Requirements:
State University (degree minimum 4 years):
Private University (degree minimum 4 years):
Qualification: Senior Secondary School Leaving Certificate / 高級中學畢業證書 Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Senior Secondary School Leaving Certificate / 高級中學畢業證書 Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Senior Vocational High School Leaving Certificate / 高職學校畢業證書 Requirement: 65%
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / 學士學位 Requirements: 2:1 = 7.5 or 75%, 2:2 = 6.5 or 5%
Qualification: Certificate of Completed Secondary Education / Аттестат о среднем полно) образовании Requirement: 2
Qualification: Certificate of Completed Secondary Education / Аттестат о среднем полно) образовании Requirement: 3
Qualification: Third year entry - Bachelor Degree /  Дипломи бакалавр Requirement: 3
Qualification: Specialist Diploma / Диплом специалиста Requirements: 2:1 = 4, 2:2 = 3
Qualification: The Certificate of Secondary Education (CSE or CSEE) / Secondary School Leaving Certificate Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Ordinary Diploma/Diploma Requirement: CGPA 2.0
Qualification: First year entry - Ordinary Diploma/Diploma Requirement: CGPA 3.0
Qualification: Bachelor's Degree Requirements: The standard marking system in Tanzanian Universities is comparable to that used in the UK with the exception of the University of Dar Es Salaam:
Qualification: Maw 6 or Certificate of Vocational Education Requirement: 45% in each subject
Qualification: Maw 6 or Certificate of Vocational Education Requirement: 50% in each subject
Qualification: Advanced Diploma Requirement: 2.3
Qualification: Degree with a minimum of 4 years Requirements: 2:1 = 3.0, 2:2 = 2.5
Qualification: Diplôme de Bachelier de l’Enseignement du Troisiéme Degré Requirement: 11-12
Qualification: Diplôme de Bachelier de l’Enseignement du Troisiéme Degré Requirement: 12-13
Qualification: First year entry - Brevet de Technicien Supérieur / Diplôme Universitaire d’Etudes XXX Licence Requirement: 14
Qualification: Third year entry - Brevet de Technicien Supérieur / Diplôme Universitaire d’Etudes XXX Licence Requirement: 14
Qualification: Diplôme d'Etudes Superieures/Approfondies, Diplôme d'Ingénieur or Maîtrise Requirements: 2:1 = 14 or Bien, 2:2 = 12 or Assez Bien
Qualification: Pacific Senior Secondary Certificate, New Zealand University Entrance Certificate Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: International Foundation Year Requirement: Successfully completed
Qualification: Bachelors degree from the University of the South Pacific Requirements: 2:1 = B+, 2:2 = C+
Qualification: Associate degree, Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Bachelor degree issued by the University of the West Indies, St Augustine or the programme is accredited by the Accreditation Council of Trinidad and Tobago Requirements: Directly comparable to UK
Qualification: Baccalauréat / البكالوريا Requirement: 8/20
Qualification: Baccalauréat / البكالوريا Requirement: 10/20
Qualification: First year entry - Brevet de Technicien Supérieur / ل قني الت ا Diplôme (DEST) Requirement: 12/20
Qualification: First year entry - Brevet de Technicien Supérieur / ل قني الت ا Diplôme (DEST) Requirement: 14/20
Qualification: Licence, Diplôme National d'Architecture, Diplôme National d'Ingenieur, Docteur en Medecine/Veterinaire Requirements: 2:1 = 14, 2:2 = 12
Qualification: State or Private High School Diploma / Devlet Lise Diplomasi or Lise Bitirme Diplomasi Requirement: 50 or 2/5 / 50%
Qualification: State or Private High School Diploma / Devlet Lise Diplomasi or Lise Bitirme Diplomasi Requirement: 50 or 2/5 / 60%
Qualification: State or Private High School Diploma / Devlet Lise Diplomasi or Lise Bitirme Diplomasi Requirement: 55 or 3/5 / 65%
Qualification: First year entry - Ön-Lisans Diplomasi Requirement: 4/5 or 70% or 2.5
Qualification: Second year entry - Ön-Lisans Diplomasi Requirement: 3
Qualification: Bachelor Degree / Ptychio Requirements: 2.1 = 7/10, 2:2 = 6.5 /10
Qualification: Certificate of Complete Secondary Education / Şahadatnama orta blim hakynda Requirement: 2
Qualification: Certificate of Complete Secondary Education / Şahadatnama orta blim hakynda Requirement: 3
Qualification: Certificate of Specialised Secondary Education / Diplom yörite orta bilim barada Requirement: 3
Qualification: Specialist Diploma / Ýokary bilim hakynda şahadatnama (when awarded after 2007) Requirements: 2:1 = 4, 2:2 = 3
Qualification: East African Certificate of Education, Uganda Certificate of Education Requirement: C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: East African Advanced Certificate of Education Requirement: Directly comparable to the UK A Levels
Qualification: East African Advanced Certificate of Education Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Bachelor's Degree (Degrees from private universities must be accredited by the National Council for Higher Education) Requirements: Directly comparable to the UK
Qualification: Certificate of Complete General Secondary Education / Aтестат про повну загальну середню освіту Requirement: 3/5 or 5/12
Qualification: Diploma of Secondary Vocational Education (Basic Level) / Диплом о среднем профессиональном образовании (базовый уровень) Requirement: 3
Qualification: Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma / Диплом Бакалавра or Диплом Специалиста Requirements: 2:1 = 3.5, 2:2 = 3
I nternational Foundation Programme (IFP)
Qualification: General Secondary Education Certificate / شهادة التعليم الثانوي العام Requirement: 70%
Qualification: General Secondary Education Certificate / شهادة التعليم الثانوي العام Requirement: 75%
Qualification: University Diploma / دبلوم جامعي Requirement: 2.3
Qualification: Second year entry - Associate Degree / درجة الزمالة Requirement: 2.3
Qualification: Bachelor's Degree / درجة البكالوريوس Requirements: 2:1 = minimum 3.3, 2:2 = minimum 2.3
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma (Grade 12) Requirement: Grade C/70%/GPA 0f 2.0 in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: High School Graduation Diploma (Grade 12) Requirement: GPA of 2.5
Qualification: High School Diploma or General Educational Development Requirement:
GPA of 3.0 Plus one of the following:
Qualification: Bachelor's Degree Requirements: 2:1 = minimum 3.0, 2:2 = minimum 2.6
Qualification: Título de Bachillerato Requirement: 5
Qualification: Título de Bachillerato Requirement: 6
Qualification: First year entry - Título de “subject area” Requirement: 7
Qualification: Second year entry - Título de “subject area” Requirement: 8
Qualification: Licenciatura (minimum 4 years) Requirements: 2:1 = 10, 2:2 = 8
Qualification: Certificate of Completed Secondary Education - O'rta Requirement: 50% or satisfactory
Qualification: Certificate of Completed Secondary Education - O'rta Requirement: 56% or pass
Qualification: A recognised International Foundation Year Requirement: Successfully completed
Qualification: Specialist Diploma - Bakalavr Diplomi Requirements: 2:1 = 71% or good, 2:2 = 56% or satisfactory
Qualification: Pacific Senior Secondary Certificate Requirement: 3
Qualification: New Zealand University Entrance and Bursary Examinations Requirement: 250
Qualification: Bachelor's degree from the University of the South Pacific Requirements: 2:1 = B+, 2:2 = C+
Qualification: Título de Bachiller / Técnico Medio Requirement: 10
Qualification: Título de Bachiller / Técnico Medio Requirement: 12
Qualification: Técnico Superior Universitario Requirement: 14/20
Qualification: Licenciatura Requirements:
20 point grading scale:
9 point grading scale:
Qualification: Bằng Tốt Nghiệp Phổ Thông Trung Học - Upper Secondary School Graduation Diploma Requirement: Grade 4
Qualification: Bằng Tốt Nghiệp Phổ Thông Trung Học - Upper Secondary School Graduation Diploma Requirement: Grade 5
Qualification: Bằng Tốt Nghiệp Phổ Thông Trung Học - Gifted schools, First year of a recognised degree, Bằng Tốt Nghiệp Trung Cấp Chuyên Nghiệp (Intermediate Professional Education Diploma) Requirement: 7.5 GPA for 1st year entry, 6.0 or 2.3/4.0 GPA 6.0
Qualification: Bachelor's degree Requirements: GPA of 7.5 for 2:1, GPA of 6.5 for 2:2, On a four-point scale this would be 2.5 for a 2:2 and 3.0 for a 2:1
Qualification: General Secondary Education Certificate / ال عا م ة ال ثا ن وی ة شه ا دة Requirement: 50 in every subject
Qualification: General Secondary Education Certificate / ال عا م ة ال ثا ن وی ة شه ا دة Requirement: 55 in every subject
Qualification: First year entry - Certificate of Technical Education / شهادة التعليم الفني Requirement: 70%
Qualification: First year entry - Higher Diploma / الدبلوم العالي Requirement: 70%
Qualification: First year entry - Diploma from a University / دبلوم من  الجامعات Requirement: 63%
Qualification: Third year entry - Bachelor Degree / درجة البكالوريوس Requirement: 63%
Qualification: Master's Degree / درجة الماجستير Requirements: 2:1 = 78%, 2:2 = 63%
Qualification: School Certificate/General Certificate of Education Requirement: 1- 6 in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: Advanced certificate - awarded by Examinations Council of Zambia Requirement: 50% - Pass
Qualification: First year entry - Advanced certificate awarded by the Examinations Council of Zambia Requirement: 60% - credit, merit, distinction
Qualification: First year entry - Diplomas awarded by the Examination Council of Zambia Requirement: 60% - credit, merit, distinction
Qualification: Third Year entry - Bachelor degree recognised institution Requirement: Grade B/61%
Qualification: Bachelor's degree Requirements: 2:1 = 70% or Merit, 2:2 = 60% or Credit
Qualification: Zimbabwe General Certificate of Education Requirement: Grade C in English Language and Maths only
Qualification: National Diploma Requirement: 50%
Qualification: Zimbabwe Advanced Certificate of Education Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: First year entry - National Diploma Requirement: 60%
Qualification: First year entry - Zimbabwe Advanced Certificate of Education Requirement: Directly comparable to UK A Levels
Qualification: Third year entry - Higher National Diploma Requirement: 60%
Qualification: Bachelor's degree Requirements: Directly comparable to UK

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/fees-finance/scholarships:
We have a range of scholarships, bursaries and discounts available to international students.
You can apply for scholarships once you have received an offer from us.
You must be applying for a full-time degree.
Applications for postgraduate research, online studies, foundation and pre-sessional language programmes are not eligible for a discount or scholarship.
Read our full terms and conditions
View our available scholarships and discounts for the September 2025 intake.
Successful scholarship applicants will be contacted via email to confirm their award.
Eligibility Criteria:
Terms, Conditions and Exclusions:
Please note that all students are required to comply with, and are bound by, the University’s Student Regulations and Procedures , including the Student Code of Conduct.
If a student is removed from the course for failing to comply with the Student Regulations and Procedures, they may be required to pay the Vice Chancellor’s Scholarship back in full.
If you pay your annual tuition fee in full ahead of enrolment, you will benefit from a £1,000 discount.
If full payment is received prior to issuing your CAS, we will adjust the remaining fees that you need to show your financial requirements accordingly.
Terms and Conditions apply .
The 25% alumni discount is available if you graduated in the academic years 2023/24 or 2024/25 and are fully enrolled on a postgraduate programme by July 2026.
This offer applies to full-time and part-time campus-based masters programmes and is applicable for students who have graduated from a full-time or part-time undergraduate degree course at the University of Derby.
This offer also applies to any graduate wishing to progress onto an online postgraduate programme.*
*Exclusions apply:
All other alumni will receive a 10% discount.
This is applicable if you graduated before 2023/24 and is not in addition to the 25% discount.
This offer applies to full-time and part-time campus-based masters programmes and is applicable for students who have graduated from a full-time or part-time undergraduate degree course at the University of Derby.* This offer also applies to any graduate wishing to progress onto an online postgraduate taught programme.
If you enrol on a PhD or DProf, you will also be eligible for a 10% discount.
The discount is fixed, regardless of when you graduated.
You can find further information on our postgraduate research fees and funding page .
Discounts must be requested at the time of enrolment and will not be automatically applied.
You will need to provide your degree certificate when enrolling as evidence that you have studied with us before.
To check whether the discount applies to the course you intend to study, call the Student Records and Awards team on +44 (0)1332 593110 or email studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk .
We also have a number of Sports Scholarships available for which international students can apply.
Find out more about our Sports Scholarships
Getting the Vice-Chancellor scholarship has helped me believe in myself and my achievements.
I have become more confident and it is a big motivation to work even harder.
I am very grateful and really blessed that I got this opportunity.
In partnership with the British Council and the GREAT British Campaign, this scholarship programme offers financial support of £10,000 to eligible students from India pursuing one year of postgraduate study at the University of Derby, as part of our September 2025 intake.
A separate application is required through an online form once you have received your offer.
Applicants must be on one of the following courses:
GREAT Scholarships full details
Full tuition fee and stipend for talented and motivated postgraduate students to study MSc Intelligence, Security, and Disaster Management from September 2025.
Applications open to students from the following Commonwealth countries:
Bangladesh
Belize
Botswana
Cameroon
Dominica
Eswatini
Fiji
Gabon
Ghana
Grenada
Guyana
India
Jamaica
Kenya
Kiribati
Lesotho
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mauritius
Montserrat
Mozambique
Namibia
Nauru
Nigeria
Pakistan
Papua New Guinea
Rwanda
Saint Helena
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and The Grenadines
Samoa
Sierra Leone
Solomon Islands
South Africa
Sri Lanka
Tanzania
The Gambia
Togo
Tonga
Tuvalu
Uganda
Vanuatu
Zambia
The deadline for this scholarship has now passed.
More information can be found on the Commonwealth Shared Scholarship website .
The Chevening scholarship is a fully-funded scholarship for postgraduate students.
This includes tuition fees, accommodation and flights.
Eligible students will have passion, ideas, and influence to provide the solutions and leadership needed to create a better future.
Please see the full list of eligible countries on the Chevening website .
A separate application is required through the Chevening website.
Please refer to the Chevening website for the application timeline .
Please note that the Chevening Scholarship has closed applications for 2025.
Apply on the Chevening website
Mohika wanted to lift some of the financial burden of studying abroad, and so applied and was successful in achieving a scholarship at Derby.
Here she talks about how grateful she was to receive it.
View Mohika's scholarship story video transcript
Scholarship recipient Mohika Shankar discusses settling in as an international student and the impact of being awarded the Vice-Chancellor scholarship on her motivation to study.
Sam's first-year fees were covered by the Vice-Chancellor's Scholarship, one of a range of scholarships, bursaries and discounts we offer to international students .
Here, he shares his experience of receiving the award and what it meant to him.
View Sam's scholarship story video transcript
Moving to the UK was a life-changing experience for Sam Chikowore, who was awarded the Vice-Chancellor’s scholarship.
Hear about his time as an international student in Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/services/admissions/apply-online:
Before you begin your application make sure you have:
For more information please see our online application guide .
If you've started your application already, use the link on the right to access and complete your application form using your username and password.
Continue application Continue application
If you've forgotten your username or password choose "Continue application" above and then "Forgot password?" to access your account.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/applying/benefits-for-international-students:
Staying in the UK is a once-in-a-lifetime experience and choosing the right accommodation is key to ensuring you have a happy, trouble-free stay in the UK.
We aim to make halls a home from home and encourage students to join in our events programme to make new friends.
Our award-winning halls are the best choice for international students, offering a wide range of rooms to suit all budgets, great facilities and a safe and secure environment close to your lectures and on the Unibus route.
As a member of our halls community, you'll be able to meet, socialise and make friends with residents from all seven of our halls of residence via our free Residence Life programme of activities and events.
A warm welcome awaits you at our halls.
We understand that International students are limited in the amount of luggage they can bring, so we provide a few things you'll need, free of charge:
Finally, remember, if you make the University of Derby your first choice and apply for accommodation by 31 July, we can guarantee you a room in our halls of residence .
Applying well before you arrive gives you peace of mind.
Apply for halls now
I've lived in halls pretty much all my years at University and I wouldn't change it for the world.
The Hall Managers are very kind and they are always ready to help.
Whether you're on a tight budget or have cash to spare, we have accommodation to suit your needs.
Whatever offer you choose, you can be sure of first-rate service, excellent facilities and wrap-around security and pastoral care, plus an all-inclusive price that takes the worry out of budgeting so you can concentrate on your studies.
All-inclusive accommodation for £117 a week.
High-end rooms with shared toilet and shower facilities.
£137 a week.
Limited availability.
En-suite accommodation at our three en-suite halls (from £144 a week) - Limited availability
Staying in halls is the best way to check an item off the stress list when moving to a new country, allowing you to take care of other important matters/needs with full attention.
Many private accommodation providers promote a cheaper weekly charge but don't include bills in the price or have 51-week contracts so they end up being much more expensive overall.
University halls include all the bills, have shorter, 42-week contracts and only ask for an up-front payment of £50.
You need to book your accommodation prior to your arrival to ensure you have a place to stay during your studies.
Arriving without accommodation can be very stressful and expensive, so plan ahead and avoid the hassle.
Book your halls room now!
I was worried about not making any friends in university so I opted for halls because that meant I would be able to meet new people.
Thankfully, my flatmates were kind and we got along nicely.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/international-team-and-agents:
Our international team can support you with your application and help answer any questions you have about living in Derby and studying with us.
We also work with a network of educational agent representatives in most countries around the world who can support your application.
The University of Derby works with a global network of education agents who understand our offering.
Agents are contracted to support qualified prospective students to choose a course and submit an application to the University.
They may also help with finding accommodation and provide support with applying for a student visa.
If you enrol with us, the University pay the education agent a commission/fee as part of our commercial relationship.
Further guidance on how to choose an education agent that is right for you can be found on the British Councils' Student Guide to Choosing an Education Agent.
Students or applicants who are dissatisfied with their experience of using one of the University's contracted agents can lodge a complaint by emailing agents@derby.ac.uk
Agent Quality Framework (AQF) demonstrates our dedication to maintaining the highest standards of agent management, ensuring the best experiences for our students.
Established by the British Universities’ International Liaison Assocation (BUILA), Universities UK International (UUKi), UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) and the British Council, the framework provides guidance and quality assurance tools to ensure ethical agent practices across the sector, operating according to the following principles:
Students can read more about working with Education Agents in the AQF Student Guide to Choosing an Education Agent .
We have a network of educational agent representatives in most countries around the world.
You can contact any of our agents and apply to study with us directly through them.
Some agents may charge for the provision of services - please check this directly with the agent.
Find your nearest recruitment agent:
If you are an overseas representative of the University of Derby and are supporting students through their application process, please use our function on our website.
Select the course of choice, click on 'apply direct', and create an account for the student using your agent ID when requested.
We welcome new agent applications from organisations who have relevant experience and knowledge of the University and who are committed to providing students with a high-quality UK education.
If you are interested in becoming one of our overseas representatives please email your details (including contact information and the markets you cover) to agents@derby.ac.uk .
Agents who require support with their agent contracts please contact us on agents@derby.ac.uk .
You can contact the international team for your region via email and we also have recruitment officers based in China, India and Nigeria who you can contact directly for support.
If you would like to speak to a member of the team for advice on your education agent or make a complaint - please do contact the international team below.
Yusuff is the Head of International Recruitment.
If you are in India, you can contact Anjali Bhatia.
If you are in India, you can contact Savneet Kaur.
Contact Ellias if you want to know more about what it's like to live and study in Derby or have any questions about making an application.
Contact Christopher if you want to know more about what it's like to live and study in Derby or have any questions about making an application.
If you are in Nigeria, you can contact Destiny Eke.
Contact Siobhan if you want to know more about what it's like to live and study in Derby or have any questions about making an application.
Contact Yan if you want to know more about what it's like to live and study in Derby or have any questions about making an application.
We visit many countries through the year with advice for you and your parents about choosing your course and what it’s like to be a student in Derby.
Apply today for an undergraduate or postgraduate course at the University of Derby.
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni/graduates/tyra-tucker:
Tyra is the Senior Ministerial Visit and Events Manager for the Department for Work and Pensions.
She collaborates with various groups such as policy teams, press offices, frontline services, businesses and organisations to identify and plan ministerial visits and events that align with department policy and priorities.
Originally from the USA, Tyra always aspired to live and study in the UK.
This dream was realised when she started studying International Relations and Diplomacy at the University of Derby.
During her time at Derby, she created new friendships whilst discovering how hard work and the right opportunities could turn her goals into reality.
The University of Derby offered me invaluable experiences which not only deepened my passions but also paved the way for my next steps in my career.
The support and opportunities I received were instrumental in my journey and I truly believe I wouldn't be where I am today without them.
Tyra is very proud of the resilience she showed when facing a range of challenges during her university years when she learned the profound importance of believing in herself.
More importantly, she discovered the value of self-care, recognising that focusing on her mental and physical well-being was essential to achieving her goals.
Whilst completing her degree, Tyra engaged extensively with the University’s Careers and Employability .
One of the most impactful experiences was participating in the Be The Boss programme.
This initiative ignited her entrepreneurial spirit and provided her with invaluable lessons in business management and leadership.
Through the Be the Boss programme, Tyra launched her own website business, Culture Scoop , which allowed her to hire and mentor four interns and create engaging content.
This experience was instrumental in developing Tyra’s skills in entrepreneurship, strategic planning and team management.
It taught her how to navigate challenges, seize opportunities and drive her business forward.
"The skills and knowledge from my degree have been very useful in my current role.
My studies fuelled my passion for digital and public diplomacy, teaching me how to use different communication tools to engage with diverse audiences and share important messages ."
Taking part in numerous internships further reinforced her ability to manage projects, build professional relationships and adapt to dynamic environments.
These experiences, coupled with the support from the University, have been pivotal in shaping her career and entrepreneurial journey.
Tyra advises current students to balance their academic endeavours with building a strong CV and exploring personal and professional interests.
Tyra believes it is important for students to utilise their time at university to experience new interests whilst working hard and staying dedicated.
For students aiming to have a role in the Civil Service, Tyra highlights the importance of being adaptable and strategic whilst being able to adjust to new situations.
" I encourage students to develop strong communication and interpersonal skills as you will interact with various people.
Stay updated by reading multiple news sources and tracking parliamentary activities to gain a clear view of how policies are crafted and their effects.
This knowledge will enhance your effectiveness in the role."
Since graduating her biggest success has been the breadth and depth of experience that she gained both academically and professionally.
After completing her studies at University of Derby, she pursued a postgraduate degree at Oxford University.
Currently, she serves as an Executive Committee Member and Event-Coordinator for Young Diplomats in London where she facilitates connections within London’s diplomatic community and hosts events across the city.
As a civil servant, she had the privilege of supporting the delivery of the first-ever AI Summit where she interacted with technology influencers and was in the same room as Elon Musk and numerous world leaders.
Whilst it's exciting to meet influential people, what truly drives me is a love for learning about leadership, witnessing change in action, and finding ways to make a meaningful impact.
Moving forward, Tyra has several exciting projects in progress and personal goals she is eager to pursue.
Tyra is open to new opportunities and she looks forward to developing her ideas over the coming months and years.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/applicants:
We know that you will have lots of questions about your arrival in the UK.
The information below offers guidance on moving to the UK, how we can support you and what you can expect when you arrive in Derby.
We are delighted to welcome international students onto our campus.
Whether it's your first time coming to Derby or you're returning for a new semester, it's worth checking our guidance.
Take the time to go through the below information to ensure you have a safe and easy arrival in the UK.
Accommodation in our halls of residence must be booked before your arrival to ensure you have a place to stay during your studies.
Our award-winning accommodation includes seven halls of residence that are a short distance from campus sites and within easy reach of the city centre – so you’ll soon be finding your way around and living like a local.
Most halls are just minutes away from our campus, and the furthest is 25 minutes walking distance.
Our Unibus allows you to easily travel between our halls, campus sites, city centre and train station.
Your fixed price rent in halls is all-inclusive, so you won’t have any separate bills for WiFi, electricity, gas and water, helping you to manage your budgets.
Living in halls only requires you to pay a £50 deposit upfront to secure a room and we have 3 offers available:
Upon arrival, you will be provided with a bedroom, bathroom, and kitchen pack, stocked with essential items to help you settle in.
Our accommodation team also host regular activities and events where you can make friends and feel at home.
Please note: University halls of residence do not provide family accommodation​.
Private accommodation is suitable for families arriving in Derby.
Private houses and apartments can cost between £70 and £120 per week and are based across the city.
Usually, this does not include utility bills such as gas or electricity, so these costs will be added to the price.
If you bring a family, costs could be significantly higher, between £200 and £350 per week, depending on the number of bedrooms.
See more information about renting in Derby.
If you choose to live in private accommodation, you will also have to provide a guarantor, or in most cases pay seven months’ rent in advance.
We strongly recommend living within Derby, close to the University – no further than 30 miles away.
Teaching can start as early as 9am and finish as late as 9pm, so being within easy reach will significantly reduce your travel time and you won’t have to spend as much on transport.
You will also be able to get to the University without worrying about potential rail strikes or bad weather disrupting your journey.
Living close to campus will help you with your studies, as you’ll be able to make use of our library - which is open 24/7 during assessment time - and meet up with classmates for study groups.
It also means you can easily get involved with our Union of Students societies and events, helping you to make friends.
Not to mention, Derby is one of the most affordable cities in the UK with a lower cost of living than many other areas in the UK.
It's useful to know what to bring and what not to bring when moving to university.
Our handy moving in checklist can help you when deciding what to pack.
The University of Derby is located in the heart of England.
It is easy to get to by road, rail and air.
The UK is very safe for international students, and the university has 24-hour security and CCTV.
Most campuses have a special body that ensures safety for international students providing contact numbers to get in touch with officials in case of any emergency
The UKVI has released some use guidance on how to apply for your UK student visa, including the application process, useful documents and helpful reminders.
Please familiarise yourself with the guidance.
How to apply for a student visa
To ensure that you are enrolled in time and ready to begin your studies you must make your way to the University of Derby on the day of your arrival if you arrive before 5pm on a working day, or the following working day between 9am and 5pm.
​
You must bring the following original documents with you:​
You must bring the documents above to complete the right to study checks as part of your enrolment and to be officially registered as a student with the University of Derby.​
​You will receive emails regarding your enrolment so please ensure that you read and action as advised.
In the event of losing your documents at the airport or after you have arrived in the UK you must immediately report this to the police.
Make sure you obtain evidence of your report and visit the StudentHub to speak to one of our advisors.
We will be able to contact UKVI and ensure your enrolment is complete so you do not lose your place to study.
We have a range of facilities on our campus for you to use during your time at the University: ​
Please note we do not have creche or nursery facilities on campus.
These will need to be arranged privately if required.
Take a virtual tour
There's lots of support available for international students:
When you arrive, you should register with a local GP.​ We recommend Park Medical , our on-site GP located at our Kedleston Road site.​
Please also ensure you bring sufficient supplies of any prescribed medication for your time in the UK.​
Derby English Language Centre (DELC) provides free, in-session, language classes to help you perform better in your studies.
You can take them at any point during your time at Derby, whether you are studying an undergraduate degree or a masters course.
Uprooting yourself from your familiar surroundings is daunting; I felt very nervous back when I moved.
However, you have made it this far, take each day in your stride, time will whizz by.
Have fun on your new adventure!
Make sure you budget appropriately for your time as a student in the UK.
You will need to budget for accommodation, food and other living expenses.
A minimum of £1,025 per month is required per person to ensure living standards.
This is separate from your tuition fees.
​You will also need to factor in the cost of flights.
As our university sites and accommodation are located close to each other and the city centre, you are within walking distance of many key places.
You can shop for food at local supermarkets like Aldi and Lidl, as well as world food stores such as Pak Foods.
£8,000 in advance of your CAS being issued or enrolment*, followed up by the following two payments:
You can now pay using our online payment system .
£8,000 in advance of your CAS being issued or enrolment*, half of the remaining amount by 1 March and the final instalment by 1 May.
*please refer to the deadlines showed on your UDO portal once your enrolment has been confirmed and you have access to the portal
If you are a full-time student visa holder you can work whilst you are in the UK and still actively enrolled and engaged in your studies.
If you hold a Short-term Study visa, or any other visitor-type visa you cannot work at all.​
Our Student Employment Agency and Careers Service can offer you support, including finding jobs, writing CVs and cover letters.
Undergraduate students: 20 hours a week during term-time, full-time hours during the Christmas, Easter and summer holidays, full-time hours between successfully completing the course and your visa expiring (the wrap-up period).​
Postgraduate Taught: 20 hours a week during term-time, full-time hours during the Christmas and Easter holidays, full-time hours between successfully completing the course and your visa expiring (the wrap-up period).
There is no summer break for these students.
International student Le Thi Thu Huyen shares how she made her mind up to come to the UK to study MA Careers Education and Coaching despite the global pandemic and how she now feels very happy and secure in Derby after receiving a warm welcome and support from her lecturers, tutor, and academic staff.
View Moving from Vietnam to the UK video transcript
Find out how Osama fulfilled his ambition of experiencing a new culture and meeting new people.
When Simona first arrived at University she was afraid that as an international student she would feel alone and that it would be hard to make new friends.
Fortunately for her, these feelings didn’t last long.
Chat directly to our students to find out more about what it's like at the University of Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/access-courses/international-foundation-programme:
Full-time: 1 year
£14,900 per year (2025/26)
The International Foundation Programme is designed to give you a recognised English language qualification so you can progress onto your chosen degree.
It will prepare you for a range of degrees in subjects such as Business, Events Management and Tourism, Law, Engineering, Design, Technology and Art and Design*.
The Programme will develop your academic writing, reading, listening and speaking skills.
Drawing on the extensive materials from the University library, scientific journals and current news and media, you will learn contemporary research practices and explore academic studies within an evaluative and professional mindset.
These skills are essential for effective study at the University of Derby and the course will help introduce you to:
This course is designed as an introduction to university level study and to the UK.
It can be a daunting experience moving to a new country to study.
Tutors and university services are ready to provide any support you need while settling into the university and in your exploration of studying and living in the UK.
The International Foundation Programme is specially designed for international students whose first language is not English, and will include lots of support to improve your English language skills.
Here's what previous students who have completed the International Foundation Programme have said about the course:
“Enrolling in the IFP course was very beneficial throughout my academic journey.
Transitioning into my first year of the degree was smooth as I gained a solid foundation in understanding university expectations, involving essay writing and mastering the Harvard referencing style.
The supplementary modules, essential for my upcoming degree, were particularly helpful.
The course offered a valuable experience.
I found great satisfaction in the program, appreciating the constant support and guidance from the highly helpful lecturers throughout my university life.”
Manuki Methyani, second-year BA (Hons) Interior Design student
“The IFP has been a great tool for my undergraduate journey.
It gave me a good academic foundation on things I never knew as an international student.
It helped improve my academic skills and writing such as essay writing, reports, debating, seminars, referencing, presentations and many more.
Also, the other degree related modules were really beneficial as it made the progression into my desired degree a really smooth journey.
In addition, the support given by the lecturers in every aspect was top notch and the opportunity to study and share experiences with people from different backgrounds/cultures was amazing.
It was really a memorable journey.
I’d recommend it to every international student.”
Oladipo Fashogbon, first-year BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering student
You will study full-time (15+ hours of class per week plus self-study) for two semesters.
Please note: If you start the course in September you will finish in June*, and have the usual academic Christmas and Easter holiday breaks.
* Students taking technology subject modules only may finish in May.
The International Foundation Programme allows you to develop your English language skills alongside studying a wide range of subject modules.
The programme takes a full academic year to complete (September-June) and to pass it you must gain 120 credits.
All students must take two core modules:
Academic English (60 credits)
This module aims to bring your overall level of English to the equivalent minimum of IELTs 6.0 in all skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing).
Academic Skills (20 credits)
This module will teach you the essential academic skills you will need for undergraduate study (eg academic research, project writing and giving presentations) focusing on areas which international students may find different to the academic culture in their own country.
You will then choose from the below subject based modules, embedded in the University's different colleges:
These subject specific modules are designed to give you experience in your desired field of study.
Upon completion of the International Foundation Programme you will be able to progress onto your chosen undergraduate course and having experience from these modules will enable a smooth transition to undergraduate study.
*All subject modules run according to student demand.
If the specialist module closest to your degree is not available, you will be advised on the best alternative module(s) to take.
*Please note that for progression onto the Nursing and Healthcare undergraduate programmes additional checks are required.
These are face to face Interviews to assess suitability and language capabilities.
The outcome of the interview and availability of spaces on the course will determine whether an unconditional offer can be given.
We understand that joining us from outside the UK affects what you need to know about studying with us, so here are all the digital ways you can find out more about our University.
Teaching is carried out in classes using group and discussion based teaching techniques to help build confidence and learn from each other.
Tutors use academic articles, reading texts, listening excerpts and relevant current themes to stimulate discussion and provide opportunities for students to improve their written and spoken English.
Assessments are both formal and informal and include language tests, group discussions, written reports and presentations.
As a tutor with the Derby English Language Centre (DELC) Michael Croker runs the International Foundation Programme (IFP) here at the University of Derby.
He also helps run the In-sessional courses provided by the DELC, which offers su...
After successfully completing this course, you can go on to study a range of undergraduate degree courses at the University of Derby.
Please contact our admissions team for further details.
The IFP requires a 4.5 IELTS overall with a minimum allowance of 4.0 in no more than one skill.
Please note that should you wish to continue directly onto a degree programme you will need to check the minimum entry requirements for that programme to ensure you are able to progress.
The University of Derby also accepts the following English language qualifications equivalent to the above IELTS scores:
£14,900 per year
Full-time international students applying to start in September should apply for this course through UCAS or you can apply directly to the University for an undergraduate course if you’re not applying to any other UK university in the same year.
Apply through UCAS Apply directly to the University
Download programme specification

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside/purple-flag-status:
Derby has Purple Flag status, recognising the entertaining, diverse, safe, and enjoyable night out experience offered by our city centre.
Purple Flag was created by the ATCM ( Association of Town & City Management ) to help members of the public quickly identify safe towns and city centres.
As a Purple Flag city, Derby meets the five core standards required in excellence in managing the evening and night-time economy.
Derby's nightlife is stewarded by a team of workers and volunteers who work together to ensure a Purple Flag experience, including:
How do students begin a night out in Derby?
What does a typical night out involve?
Do our students feel safe in Derby?
Get answers to all of these questions and more as our current students reveal exactly what a night out in Derby entails.
View What are student nights out like?
Watch our students' vlogs and live chat to see what they like most about Derby.
From culture, retail and leisure to their top three places to visit in the city, find out how living in a Purple Flag city benefits them.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/applicants/visas-and-immigration-for-students/when-you-have-completed-your-studies:
This section contains information that will guide you on the next steps to take after you have completed your studies as an international student.
Academic progression applies to those who are applying for a Student visa in the UK and have previously studied on a  Student visa that was in place before 31 March 2009.
If you have a Student (Child) visa or applying from outside of the UK then you will be exempt from showing academic progression.
Students on a student visa must show that their new course represents a progression from any previous course they have studied in the UK.
For example, if you have completed a bachelor's degree (NQF level 6) you should then progress to a master's degree (NQF level 7).
It is possible to study again at the same level, however this will need to be justified.
You will need to explain in your course application either:
Your explanation for same level study will be considered by the admissions team and included in your CAS if approved.
You can only study again at the same level for degree level courses (bachelor's, master's etc).
No, you cannot study at a lower level than what you have already studied.
For example, if you have already studied at master's level and wish to study a bachelor's degree this will not be possible under a Student visa.
Academic progression applies to Student visa applications submitted within the UK.
This means that you will not be subject to the requirements if you are making an application from your home country.
However, UKVI may still look at your application with additional detail and require you to attend an interview.
We may not be able to offer you a place if we feel that your application may be refused on these grounds.
For more information on the latest requirements to apply for an extension to your student visa whilst you are within the UK, please visit the government's webpage on extending your visa .
International students are allowed to stay in the UK for two years after graduation to find a job.
The new Graduate route allows international students to work, or look for work, at any skill level, for a period of two years after completing your course.
The Graduate route allows eligible students to work in the UK after they have successfully completed their studies.
The Graduate visa gives Bachelor’s and Master’s degree students permission to stay in the UK for two years .
PhD students have the opportunity to stay in the UK for three years after successfully completing their studies in the UK.
You can only submit the Graduate visa application inside the UK.
If you have previously obtained a Graduate Route and have decided to undertake further studies and switched into a Student Visa in order to complete your further degree, please be advised that you will not be able to obtain a second Graduate Route visa.
To apply for the Graduate visa, you must be in the UK with valid permission as a Student or a Tier 4 visa holder.
This does not apply to those who have had Student permission on the Doctorate Extension Scheme (DES), who unfortunately would not be eligible for the Graduate route.
In addition to holding a valid Student or Tier 4 visa, you must also have successfully completed a degree-level course which is mentioned in your CAS letter.
Examples of relevant courses are as follows:
‘Successful completion” means that you have been awarded your qualification, the award has been confirmed at an academic board, and you have been granted the certificate of award.
It does not mean when you have submitted your final assignments or when you attend the awards ceremony.
You will receive an email from the Visa team once you have been reported to UKVI on the successful completion of your studies.
However, you will not be reported if you have not been officially awarded or have not settled the outstanding fees.
You must have studied at least 12 months of your course in the UK, or the entire course if it is less than 12 months long.
If this does not apply to you because you have been studying remotely in your home country due to the COVID-19 pandemic, then you must meet one of the following requirements:
Time spent outside of the UK between the 24 th January 2020 and the 27 th September 2021 will not count against you and there is no set requirement for you to be back in the UK.
However, you must ensure that you do so before your Student visa expires.
If your course dates are more than 12 months long but your course is considered to be a “one-year course” then you should consider your course to be 12 months long and meet the next criteria instead.
You must enter the UK on a Student visa before the 27 September 2021.
You must enter the UK on a Student visa by the 6 April 2022.
You will need to pay £ 880 for the cost of your visa application.
In addition to this, you will need to pay an Immigration Health Surcharge of £ 1,035 for each year of your visa.
That is £ 2,070 for Bachelor's and Master's students (two years) and £3,105 for PhD students (three years).
Please refer to the government’s website for any updates regarding this via their graduate visa webpage.
If you currently have dependants with you on your Student visa then you can include them in your Graduate visa application.
Your dependants must also be in the UK on a Student Dependant visa and pay the above fees.
The application is completed online via the UK government.
To complete the application, visit their website .
As part of the application process, you will be required to use an app in order to take a photograph of yourself and scan your biometric residence permit (BRP).
You can use the app on a friend or family member’s device if you are unable to do so yourself.
If you do not have access to the app you will have to attend an appointment at a UKVCAS centre to provide your documents and biometric details.
For more information, please visit the UKVCAS website .
You will need to have your BRP, passport and your most recent Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) reference number.
This is the same number you used to apply for the Student or Tier 4 visa.
You will be able to locate this in your emails or saved visa application form.
The number is 14 characters long, contains numbers and letters and begins with “E4G”.
The University of Derby is required to report to UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) eligible students for the Graduate route.
Students will be notified once the report has been submitted to UKVI.
Once issued you can do any work, including employed or self-employed, except as a professional sportsperson or coach.
UKVI have provided useful information for this new visa route.
For more information visit the graduate visa page on gov.uk.
Alternatively, you can email InternationalCompliance@derby.ac.uk to find out more .
The Skilled Worker route allows you to work full-time in the UK.
You will need to be offered a job by an employer that is listed on the Register of Sponsors and the job must be described as skilled and pay the appropriate rate as listed on the codes of practice .
For more information, please follow the government's advice on immigration rules .
The employer must meet the following criteria to be able to issue you a Certificate of Sponsorship (CoS):
For more information please access the government page for the Skilled Worker route .
Research students that wish to conduct their research in the UK will be able to apply for permission to stay in the UK on a Student visa, guidance on this can be find on the government's webpage .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/africa:
Welcome to the University of Derby, an applied university of today, for tomorrow, in the heart of the UK.
We are proud to welcome more than 2,000 international students from 100 countries and we have a growing African student community.
Here you will find important information on scholarships, entry requirements and what it’s like to study at Derby as a student from Africa.
You can also get in touch with our dedicated International Recruitment Manager and In-Country Representative for Africa.
Whether you want to become an expert in your field, gain new skills or pursue your passion for the subject you love, you can transform your future with postgraduate study at Derby.
Undertaking a research degree is an intellectual challenge like no other.
Immerse yourself in the subject you are passionate about, set your own work goals, and contribute to your field.
Going to university is a big investment.
Find out the international qualifications we accept for entry on to an undergraduate course.
"Being an alumnus of this great institution has opened doors for me that were beyond my wildest dreams.
I was a sought-after graduate by various employers in my resident country of Botswana due to the stellar reputation of the University of Derby."
As a student from Africa, you could be eligible for one of our scholarships and discounts , which can be used together to offer a reduction in fees during your first year of study.
You can apply for our scholarships once you have an offer from us.
Terms and conditions apply .
As part of our commitment to our international student family, we are delighted to offer a range of prestigious tuition scholarships on courses starting in September 2025.
The University of Derby is a TEF Gold institution, and it is important to us that we attract the brightest, most ambitious, and capable students.
We want scholars who enhance our community of excellence and who will build their future here in the UK or will be a proud alumni representative of the University around the world.
Subject to conditions outlined below, we can confirm that students will be eligible for the award of a Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship of £2,000, which will be deducted from their first-year tuition fee.
This £2,000 scholarship is in addition to our existing Full Payment Discount whereby students who pay their annual tuition fee in full ahead of enrolment benefit from a £1,000 discount.*
To be eligible students must be:
Students who qualify for the Vice-Chancellor’s scholarship will not be eligible for the International Alumni Discount or any other University financial awards (apart from the Full Payment Discount).
How students will receive their scholarship
The Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship award will be automatically applied.
It will be deducted from the fee amount outstanding, which should be paid in line with university guidance .
Students who receive an award will still need to:
Students who pay the full international fee upfront, prior to enrolling, will receive an additional £1,000 fee discount.
For students wanting to confirm their place and ensure they can satisfy immigration requirements (including their pre-CAS interview) in time to arrive in the country by the start of the course, we strongly recommend that the above steps are completed ASAP.
Need help?
For questions about Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship, please contact our Admissions office on askadmissions@derby.ac.uk .
*For further details on the £2,000 Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship and £1,000 Full Payment Discount visit our Scholarships, Bursaries and Discounts webpage and note that Terms and Conditions apply .
To all prospective students joining us from the region and beautiful African continent.
I want to assure you that the UoD is incredible, the lecturers very supportive and the city lovely.
So, when you arrive, be yourself and live your dream.
Are you excited to join our beautiful community?
We have lots of activities lined up to make your study time fun and relaxing.
Welcome to Derby, our home away from home.
Click on your country below to find the entry requirements.
If you have specific questions about your qualifications you can contact the international recruitment officer .
You can also check the course page for any specific requirements.
West African Senior School Certificate Examination, NECO Senior School Certificate or General Certificate of Education Ordinary.
Students with five passes at grade C or above would usually be eligible for the IFY.
UKVI IELTS 4.5 with a minimum of 4.0 in all components (CEFR B1) is also required.
Students with a minimum CGPA of 2.5 in the National Diploma can typically be considered for direct entrance onto Bachelor programmes.
Students with a minimum CGPA of 2.5 in the Ordinary National Diploma can typically be considered for direct entrance to the first year of Bachelor programmes.
Students with a minimum CGPA of 2.5 in the Higher National Diploma can typically be considered for direct entrance onto the final year of Bachelor programmes.
The West African GCE Advanced Levels are comparable in terms of grading and equivalence to UK A levels.
Bachelor degrees from NARIC or government recognised institutions can normally be accepted for master’s studies.
A score of 60-70% or Second Class Honours (Upper Division) is considered comparable to a UK 2:1
A score of 50-59% or Second Class Honours (Lower Division) is considered comparable to a UK 2:2
WAEC C6 – (Equivalent to IELTS 6.0) WAEC B3 - (Equivalent to IELTS 7.0)
We accept WAEC C6 for an IELTS equivalent of 6.0 or 6.5 for PG plus 4 years study at University taught in English For IELTS 7 or above an IELTS is required If you do not meet the criteria above then you will require an Academic IELTS
West African Senior School Certificate Examination / General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level.
Student with five passes at Grade C in either of the above awards would usually be eligible for the International Foundation Year.
Students with a minimum CGPA of 2.5 in the Ordinary National Diploma can typically be considered for entrance to the first year of Bachelor programmes.
Students with a minimum CGPA of 2.5 in the Higher National Diploma can typically be considered for entrance to the final year of Bachelor programmes.
The General Certificate of Education Advanced Levels is comparable in terms of grading and equivalence to UK A levels.
We require a Bachelor degree from a NARIC or government recognised institution.
The majority of universities use the UK grading system.
Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology do not have a 3rd class descriptor.
WASSCE C6 – (Equivalent to IELTS 6.0) WASSCE B3 - (Equivalent to IELTS 7.0)
We accept WASSCE C6 for an IELTS equivalent of 6.0 or 6.5 for PG plus 4 years study at University taught in English For IELTS 7 or above an IELTS is required If you do not meet the criteria above then you will require an Academic IELTS
Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education
Students with minimum grades of C in five subjects would usually be eligible for the International Foundation Year.
Students with a minimum score of 60% in the University Diploma / Ordinary Diploma / Ordinary Technician Diploma can typically be considered for direct entrance to bachelor programmes.
Students who have successfully completed one year of a Kenyan degree programme can typically be considered for direct entrance to bachelor programmes.
Students with a minimum score of 60% in the Higher Diploma / Higher Technician Diploma can typically be considered for entrance to the final year of a Bachelor programme.
We require a Bachelor degree from a NARIC or government recognised institution, a typical offer would be:
A score of 60% is considered comparable to a UK 2:1 A score of 50% is considered comparable to a UK 2:2
Degrees issued by private institutions must have national recognition from CHE.
You can download the list of approved private degrees here .
The following awards offer English language exemptions:
KCSE with a grade C – (Equivalent to IELTS 6.0) KCSE with a grade C – (Equivalent to IELTS 6.5) KCSE with a grade B - (Equivalent to IELTS 7.0)
Accept KCSE with a C for an IELTS equivalent of 6.0 or 6.5 for plus 3/4 years study at University taught in English For IELTS 7 or above an IELTS is required
N.B.
Some programmes will require IELTS with no exemptions.
Below is a summary of our annual tuition fees for international students in UK pounds before any scholarship, bursary or discount has been applied.
* Some course fees may vary so please check the course webpage for details.
Uprooting yourself from your familiar surroundings is very daunting, when I moved in 2018, I was feeling very nervous.
However, you have made it this far, take each day in your stride, time will whizz by!
From the big cities of Nigeria to the community spirit of Derby.
Find out how Mercy learned to navigate her new home, and how she's learning how to 'Be the Boss' through one of our initiatives.
Lawyer Nta Nta from Nigeria knew a postgraduate degree would increase his knowledge in his chosen specialism and improve his career prospects.
He is now studying for our Master of Laws (LLM) at Derby.
The University of Derby has a number of agents and representatives in Sub-Saharan Africa.
You can contact any of our agents and apply to study with us through them.
How a GREAT Scholarship moved climate advocate Olajumoke from Nigeria.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/europe:
We are proud to welcome more than 2,000 international students from 100 countries and we have a growing European student community.
Here you will find important information on scholarships, entry requirements and what it’s like to study at Derby as a student from Europe.
You can also get in touch with our dedicated International Recruitment Officer for Europe.
Use our course search to find the University of Derby course that's right for you.
Make Derby your choice and you will study at a UK university that:
Studentmiljøet er veldig sammensveiset og innbydende, og man kan enkelt finne noen man har noe til felles med.
(The student community is very close-knit and welcoming, and you can easily find someone that you share a common interest with.)
BA (Hons) Illustration graduate Marie Blomqvist discusses discovering Derbyshire and settling in to life as an international student at Derby.
Here you will find details of the general entry requirements if you are from Europe.
If you have specific questions about your qualifications you can contact the international recruitment officer.
Accepted English Language Alternatives – We will accept a Gut / Grade 2 in English in lieu of IELTs.
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion with a grade of 15
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion with a grade of 15
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion with a grade of 16 (80%)
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion with a grade of 16 (80%)
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion with a grade of 16.5 (82%)
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion with a grade of 16.5 (82%)
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion with a grade of 17 (85%)
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion with a grade of 17.5 (87%)
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion with a grade of 18 (90%)
Other entry criteria - Subject-specific requires a score of 82%
Accepted English Language Alternatives - Students who graduate from the English medium schools will not be asked to provide IELTS.
Ptychio degree from a Higher Education Institution
64 Tariff Point - Pass Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 4
72 Tariff Point - Pass Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 4
80 Tariff Point - Pass Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 3.5
88 Tariff Point - Pass Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 3.5
96 Tariff Point - Pass Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 3
104 Tariff Point - Pass Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 3
112 Tariff Point - Pass Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 3
120 Tariff Point - Pass Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 2
128 Tariff Point - Pass Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 2
Other entry criteria - Matura results: Excellent - 1, Commendable - 2, Good - 3, Sufficient - 4
Accepted English Language Alternatives - Grade 2 at B2 Level in English in lieu of IELTS 6.0/6.5 from the Czech maturitni.
We will accept the TESA from candidates applying through Study Abroad Advising Centre (Unilink) in lieu of IELTS; results will be provided in IELTS format.
Bakalar degree (awarded from 2002) or Magistr (formerly Absolvent Vysoké Skoly ) / Professional title (before 2002) - Pre 2002 grade 1 or Vyborny (Excellent) / Post 2004 grade A or 1 or Vyborny (Excellent) = 1st, Pre 2002 grade 2 or Velmi dobry (Very Good) / Post 2004 grade B or 1.5 or Velmi dobry (Very Good) = 2:1, Pre 2002 grade 3 or Dobry (Good) / Post 2004 grade C-D or 2 - 2.5 or Dobry (Good) = 2:2
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Hojere Forberedelseseksamen with an overall grade of 2
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Hojere Forberedelseseksamen with an overall grade of 2
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Hojere Forberedelseseksamen with an overall grade of 2
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Hojere Forberedelseseksamen with an overall grade of 2
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Hojere Forberedelseseksamen with an overall grade of 4
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Hojere Forberedelseseksamen with an overall grade of 4
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Hojere Forberedelseseksamen with an overall grade of 7
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Hojere Forberedelseseksamen with an overall grade of 7
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Hojere Forberedelseseksamen with an overall grade of 10
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires 4
Accepted English Language Alternatives – We will accept at least 7 in English in lieu of IELTs.
Pass mark - 60% is CCC, 75% is BBB
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires7 or above
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with 3
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with 3
80 Tariff Point -  Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with 4
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with 4
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with 4
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with 4
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with 4
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with 5
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with 5
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires 4
Accepted English Language Alternatives - We will accept a grade 4 in English as an alternative to IELTS 6.0
64 Tariff Point - Pass the French Baccalaureate with 10
72 Tariff Point - Pass the French Baccalaureate with 10
80 Tariff Point - Pass the French Baccalaureate with 11
88 Tariff Point - Pass the French Baccalaureate with 11
96 Tariff Point - Pass the French Baccalaureate with 11
104 Tariff Point - Pass the French Baccalaureate with 12
112 Tariff Point - Pass the French Baccalaureate with 12
120 Tariff Point - Pass the French Baccalaureate with 13
128 Tariff Point - Pass the French Baccalaureate with 14
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires 11
Accepted English Language Alternatives – We will accept a grade 14 in English in the Baccalareate as an alternative to IELTS 6.0
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Abitur with an overall grade of 4 including 11 in English
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Abitur with an overall grade of 4 including 11 in English
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Abitur with an overall grade of 4 including 11 in English
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Abitur with an overall grade of 4 including 11 in English
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Abitur with an overall grade of 4 including 11 in English
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Abitur with an overall grade of 4 including 11 in English
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Abitur with an overall grade of 4 including 11 in English
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Abitur with an overall grade of 2 including 11 in English
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Abitur with an overall grade of 2 including 11 in English
Accepted English Language Alternatives – English, provided it has been taken as a Leistungskurs and a mark of 11 / gut has been obtained can be accepted in lieu of IELTS 6 or equivalent
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion or Ptychio with an overall grade of  13.1 to 16
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion or Ptychio with an overall grade of  13.1 to 16
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion or Ptychio with an overall grade of  13.1 to 16
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion or Ptychio with an overall grade of  13.1 to 16
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion or Ptychio with an overall grade of  13.1 to 16
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion or Ptychio with an overall grade of  16.1 to 18
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion or Ptychio with an overall grade of  16.1 to 18
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion or Ptychio with an overall grade of  18.1 to 20
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Apolytirion or Ptychio with an overall grade of  18.1 to 20
Other entry criteria - 16.1 to 18 is required grade for any pre-requisite subjects.
We are able to accept students onto first year of a degree with an overall grade of 50% on the Network Foundation from Greece (or 60% if they go onto a course with 120 UCAS points)
Accepted English Language Alternatives - ONLY for Network Foundation applicants: We accept 60% in English in lieu of IELTS or other SELT
Ptychio (Bachelor) degree awarded by an AEI - Ἀριστα (Excellent) or 8.50-10.00 = 1st, Λίαν Καλώς (Very Good) or 6.50-8.49 = 2:1, Καλώς (Good) or 5.00-6.49 = 2.2
64 Tariff Point - 24 points
72 Tariff Point - 25 points
80 Tariff Point - 25 points
88 Tariff Point - 26 points
96 Tariff Point - 26 points
104 Tariff Point - 27 points
112 Tariff Point - 28 points
120 Tariff Point - 29 points
128 Tariff Point - 30 points
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires Higher Level 4
Accepted English Language Alternatives – We will accept HL English grade 4 OR SL English grade 6 in Lieu of IELTs
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Diplom di Esame di Stato with an overall grade of 60
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Diplom di Esame di Stato with an overall grade of 60
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Diplom di Esame di Stato with an overall grade of 65
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Diplom di Esame di Stato with an overall grade of 65
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Diplom di Esame di Stato with an overall grade of 70
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Diplom di Esame di Stato with an overall grade of 70
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Diplom di Esame di Stato with an overall grade of 70
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Diplom di Esame di Stato with an overall grade of 75
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Diplom di Esame di Stato with an overall grade of 80
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires grade 7
Diploma accademico di primo livello - 110 con lode = 1st, 101 = 2:1, 91 = 2:2
Diploma di Laurea (2002-) - 110 con lode = 1st, 101 = 2:1, 91 = 2:2
Diploma di Mediatore Linguistico - 110 con lode = 1st, 101 = 2:1, 91 = 2:2
Licenza di Accademia di Belle Arti (to be assessed on a case-by-case basis)
Diploma di Laurea (Vecchio Ordinamento) - 110 con lode = 1st, 101 = 2:1, 91 = 2:2
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Latvian Atestats with an overall average grade of 6
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Latvian Atestats with an overall average grade of 6
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Latvian Atestats with an overall average grade of 6.5
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Latvian Atestats with an overall average grade of 6.5
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Latvian Atestats with an overall average grade of 7
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Latvian Atestats with an overall average grade of 7
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Latvian Atestats with an overall average grade of 7
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Latvian Atestats with an overall average grade of 8
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Latvian Atestats with an overall average grade of 8
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires grade 7 at advanced level
Accepted English Language Alternatives - Atestats grade 8 or above or 70-94% in English Language in lieu of IELTS 6.0
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum overall average grade of 6
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum overall average grade of 6
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum overall average grade of 6.5
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum overall average grade of 6.5
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum overall average grade of 7
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum overall average grade of 7
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum overall average grade of 7
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum overall average grade of 8
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Brandos Atestatas with a minimum overall average grade of 9
Other entry criteria - Maths, Maths with Education, and Maths with Computing ask for Maths 8 at Advanced Level or over 50% in State Exam
Accepted English Language Alternatives - English Language at 8 or 9 at advanced level or over 50% or 60% at State Exam Level
Bakalauras, Bachelor degree (awarded from 2001) - grade 5 (1-5 scale) or 10 (1-10 scale) = 1st, grade 4 (1-5 scale) or 9 (1-10 scale) = 2:1, grade 4 (1-5 scale) or 8 (1-10 scale) = 2:2
Profesinis Bakalauras, Professional Bachelor degree (awarded from 2001) - grade 5 (1-5 scale) or 10 (1-10 scale) = 1st, grade 4 (1-5 scale) or 9 (1-10 scale) = 2:1, grade 4 (1-5 scale) or 8 (1-10 scale) = 2:2
Magistras (pre 2001) - grade 4 (1-5 scale) or 8 (1-10 scale) = 2:2
64 Tariff Point - Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), Grade 6 (min pass grade)
80 Tariff Point - Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), Grade 6.5
96 Tariff Point - Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), Grade 6.8
104 Tariff Point - Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), Grade 7
112 Tariff Point - Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), Grade 7.2
120 Tariff Point - Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), Grade 7.4
128 Tariff Point - Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), Grade 8
Other entry criteria - Also accept HAVO which is equivalent to AS Level.
Please refer to Y002F
Accepted English Language Alternatives - Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), Grade 7 in lieu of IELts or grade 8 if requirement is 6.5 or 7.0
64 Tariff Point - Successfully pass Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School)
72 Tariff Point - Successfully pass Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School)
80 Tariff Point - Successfully pass Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School)
88 Tariff Point - Successfully pass Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School)
96 Tariff Point - Successfully pass Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School) with a minimum score of 3.5 or God Kompetanse
104 Tariff Point - Successfully pass Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School) with a minimum score of 3.5 or God Kompetanse
112 Tariff Point - Successfully pass Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School) with a minimum score of 3.5 or God Kompetanse
120 Tariff Point - Successfully pass Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School) with a minimum score of 3.5 or God Kompetanse
128 Tariff Point - Successfully pass Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School) with a minimum score of 3.5 or God Kompetanse
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires a score of 4
Accepted English Language Alternatives - Minimum score of 4 in the Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School)
Bachelorgrad (from 2003) - grade A = 1st, C+ = 2:1, E+ = 2:2
Candidatus Magisterii - grade 1.5-1.0 = 1st, 2.5-1.6 = 2:1, 3.2-2.6 = 2:2
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Matura- Students need 3 subjects+1 other and need Polish, a foreign language and Maths only at basic level.
Anyone doing extended level is doing extra and needs 30%.
Students can do additional subjects which may be relevant to degree.
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Matura with average grade of 40%
80 Tariff Point -  Pass the Matura with average grade of 40%
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Matura with average grade of 50%
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Matura with average grade of 50%
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Matura with average grade of 50%
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Matura with average grade of 55%
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Matura with average grade of 60%
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Matura with average grade of 60%
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires 50%
Accepted English Language Alternatives - 60% in oral English with 85% written English basic level or 60% in oral English with 60% in written English at extended level
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Diploma de Ensino Secundario with minimum overall average of 12
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Diploma de Ensino Secundario with minimum overall average of 12
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Diploma de Ensino Secundario with minimum overall average of 12
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Diploma de Ensino Secundario with minimum overall average of 12
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Diploma de Ensino Secundario with minimum overall average of 13
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Diploma de Ensino Secundario with minimum overall average of 14
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Diploma de Ensino Secundario with minimum overall average of 14
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Diploma de Ensino Secundario with minimum overall average of 14
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Diploma de Ensino Secundario with minimum overall average of 15
Other entry criteria - If completed Professional Course of Tourism Technician from EPAD, can go into year 2 of Hospitality Management BA or Tourism Management BA
Accepted English Language Alternatives - We accept Grade 16 or above in English in the Diploma de Ensino Secundario or pass the Derby English Language Test (DELT) in lieu of IELTS or other SELT
Licenciado - grade 18 = 1st, 16 = 2:1, 14 = 2:2
Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados (DESE) - grade 18 = 1st, 16 = 2:1, 14 = 2:2
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Slovakia Maturitna Skuske/Maturita with 4
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Slovakia Maturitna Skuske/Maturita with 3.5
80 Tariff Point -  Pass the Slovakia Maturitna Skuske/Maturita with 3.5
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Slovakia Maturitna Skuske/Maturita with 3.5
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Slovakia Maturitna Skuske/Maturita with 3
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Slovakia Maturitna Skuske/Maturita with 3
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Slovakia Maturitna Skuske/Maturita with 3
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Slovakia Maturitna Skuske/Maturita with 2
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Slovakia Maturitna Skuske/Maturita with 2
Other entry criteria - Please note that this qual is graded 5-1 with 1 being the highest score.
Anything scored at 3/2 or less is acceptable.Matura results: 1 – Excellent, 2 – Commendable, 3 – Good, 4 – Sufficient
Accepted English Language Alternatives - Including English Language at B2 Level - Grade 2.
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with a minimum overall average grade of 5
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with a minimum overall average grade of 5
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with a minimum overall average grade of 5 to 5.49
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with a minimum overall average grade of 5 to 5.49
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with a minimum overall average grade of 5.5 to 6
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with a minimum overall average grade of 5.5 to 6
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with a minimum overall average grade of 6 to 6.9
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with a minimum overall average grade of 6 to 6.9
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Titulo de Bachillerato with a minimum overall average grade of 6.9+
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires 5.5
64 Tariff Point - Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an average grade of D (12-13.5 points)
72 Tariff Point - Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an average grade of D (12-13.5 points)
80 Tariff Point - Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an average grade of C (13.5-14.5 points)
88 Tariff Point - Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an average grade of C (13.5-14.5 points)
96 Tariff Point - Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an average grade of C (14.5-15.5 points)
104 Tariff Point - Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an average grade of C (14.5-15.5 points)
112 Tariff Point - Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an average grade of C (15.5-16.5 points)
120 Tariff Point - Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an average grade of B (16.5-17.5 points)
128 Tariff Point - Pass the Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with an average grade of B (17.5-18.5 points)
Other entry criteria - Subject specific requires grade C
Accepted English Language Alternatives – We will accept a grade C in English as an alternative to IELTS 6.0/6.5
No matter how far away you're coming from, joining a society can help you to meet people who share the same hobbies or interests as you.
Ioannis from Greece, tells us about his experience.
If you've lived in the UK for more than 3 years before the first day of the first academic year of your course and are from an EU country, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland, or you have pre-settled status, you may be able to get a Tuition Fee Loan and help with living costs.
Check gov.uk for more information.
Want to know more about what it's like to be an international student at the University of Derby?
Chat to one of our online ambassadors to find out more about life at Derby.
Weronika came to the UK from Poland.
She came to the University of Derby through a Sports Scholarships and has just graduated with a MSc in Marketing Management.
In her vlog she shares with you more about her move to the UK and her thoughts on Derby city.
View My international experience video transcript
Barbora Horackova took one - to come from the Czech Republic to Derby to study digital marketing.
Iveta Nikandrovaite always wanted to study in the UK, so made it happen.
Here she shares her experience of being a student and living with other Lithuanian students.
The University of Derby has a number of agents and representatives in Europe.
Diana Pinhao was 18 when she left Porto, in Portugal, and came to Derby to study Fine Art.
Now graduating, Diana’s technology-based work has been getting noticed in all the right places.
Tereza came to Derby from Prague.
She explains how she made her choice to apply, and how she adapted to starting over in a totally different city.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/india:
We are proud to welcome more than 2,000 international students from 100 countries and we have a growing Indian student community.
Here you will find important information on scholarships, entry requirements and what it’s like to study at Derby as a student from India.
You can also get in touch with our In-Country Representative for India.
I began my studies in September 2024 and my time in Derby has been amazing.
My first week was full of excitement and adrenaline and I made some fantastic friends.
The international student events helped me network with other students which I absolutely loved.
"Pursuing my studies in the UK has been an exciting journey and one of the best decisions that I have made.
My time at Derby has been deeply transformative, pushing me to step out of my comfort zone and uncover my true potential."
As a student from India, you could be eligible for one of our scholarships and discounts , which can be used together to offer a reduction in fees during your first year of study.
The prestigious Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship has helped Merin Matthews take another step towards her dream career and develop her research skills.
Securing our GREAT Scholarship gave Samantha the chance to study MA Publishing in the UK.
Here you can find details of the general entry requirements if you are from India.
We accept UKVI or Academic IELTS at the required score for your chosen course, as indicated on the course page.
The test must be no older than two years old.
We will not be accepting Medium of Instruction evidence for English language.
Find out more about English language testing
For more information and advice about entry requirements contact us .
I chose to come to the University of Derby because I like being part of a diverse student body.
The world is a big place and attending a big university like the University of Derby better prepares me for life in the real world.
International student Mohika Shankar from Delhi, India shares her thoughts on coming back to campus this year and what she's looking forward to.
View What Mohika is looking forward to this year video transcript
Derby will soon become your home away from home.
I’m certain this is going to be your most cherished experience and you’ll get to make a lot of fun memories with the most amazing people.
We can’t wait for you to join us!
Scholarship recipient Andrea Ferrao from Goa hopes studying at Derby will be her gateway to an exciting career in the forefront of sustainability practice.
The University of Derby has a number of agents and representatives in India and Pakistan.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/middle-east:
We are proud to welcome more than 2,000 international students from 100 countries and we have a growing Middle Eastern student community.
Here you will find important information on scholarships, entry requirements and what it’s like to study at Derby as a student from the Middle East.
You can also get in touch with our dedicated International Recruitment Officer for the Middle East.
The Graduate Route visa allows international students to work, or look for work, at any skill level for a period of two years after completing their courses in the UK.
ال شهادة ال ثان وی ة ال عامة ل لمدارس ال م س ت ق لة – Senior School Certificate (Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama)
شهادة ال ثان وی ة ال عامة – General Secondary Education Certificate
دب لوم ال ك ل یات / ال م عاهد ال صح یة – Diploma from a Health College / Institute
دب لوم ال ك ل یات ال ت ق ن یة / ال م عاهد ال ف ن یة – Diploma from a Technical College / Vocational institute
ال شهادة ال جام ع یة ال م تو سطة – Associate Degree
ال شهادة ال جام ع یة ال م تو سطة ف ي ال ع لوم ال صح یة – Intermediate University Degree in Health Sciences
Hello everyone.
I came to the University of Derby during an uncertain time but since my arrival, I have felt nothing but reassurance and certainty about my studies and future due to the full support of the University and all of its staff members!
The University of Derby has a number of agents and representatives in the Middle East.
Hear what trainee psychotherapist Manaal Mulla thinks about her University of Derby experience.
Sarah’s already achieved a lot – an award-winning footballer with Stoke City Women, she’s been named Arab woman of the year and featured in the BBC’s top 100 women.
All of this while studying for a degree in Civil Engineering as an international student.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/pakistan:
We are proud to welcome more than 2,000 international students from 100 countries and we have a growing Pakistani student community.
Here you will find important information on scholarships, entry requirements and what it’s like to study at Derby as a student from Pakistan.
You can also get in touch with our dedicated International Recruitment Officer for Pakistan.
Derby is an excellent institution that polishes skills and keeps student wellbeing a priority.
With the best academic faculty on board, the University is a gem in the heart of the UK.
I feel so fortunate to be a part of this great learning expedition.
Here you can find details of the general entry requirements if you are from Pakistan.
If you are studying and completing the A-levels or the International Baccalaureate (IB) from the International Schools within Pakistan, then you can begin from the first year of a Bachelor's degree.
Please see individual course pages for entry requirements.
Credit transfer into the second or final year of a Bachelor's degree programme may also be possible.
Students must have completed a relevant Bachelor’s degree from a recognised University in Pakistan.
This should be equivalent to at least a UK ‘Upper Second Class (2:1)’ or ‘Lower Second Class (2:2)’ degree.
Students who have a two or three-year Bachelor degree must also have a pass in a Master’s degree.
If you hold a Bachelors degree with honours (four-year BA, BBA, BSc, BEng) with a minimum GPA of 2.4/4.00 from a recognised Pakistani University you will be considered for entry to a Masters degree.
For postgraduate research degrees, PhD applicants are expected to have a masters as well as bachelors degree in the relevant subject areas.
Most importantly applicants must submit a research proposal.
You can find out more here .
We accept UKVI and Academic IELTS at the required score for your chosen course, as indicated on the course page.
As a student from Pakistan, you could be eligible for one of our scholarships and discounts , which can be used together to offer a reduction in fees during your first year of study.
The University of Derby has a number of agents and representatives in Pakistan.
PhD student and University teaching assistant, Simon Peter Nadeem, is working to bring about real change in the way resources are consumed by industry, in a bid to make it more efficient and less wasteful.
Rabia Ali Khan is helping to plot England’s course through the Covid-19 pandemic after graduating with her Master of Public Health.
Her work with Public Health England informs national policies relating to the global crisis.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/south-east-asia:
We are proud to welcome more than 2,000 international students from 100 countries and we have a growing South East Asian student community.
Here you will find important information on scholarships, entry requirements and what it’s like to study at Derby as a student from South East Asia.
You can also get in touch with our dedicated International Recruitment Officer for South East Asia.
Beatrice Chang from Malaysia has discovered new friends and beautiful countryside whilst studying at our Buxton Campus.
As a student from South East Asia, you could be eligible for one of our scholarships and discounts , which can be used together to offer a reduction in fees during your first year of study.
Le Thi Thu Huyen shares how she made her mind up to come to study MA Careers Education and Coaching in Derby.
Read Huyen's blog .
International transfer student Marcus Chan offers some tips and advice on how to cope with moving away from home to go to university.
He shares his insights on how it felt to come to Derby for the first time.
Bua Khemacheva from Thailand was attracted to study at Derby because of the expertise of the lecturers.
And her dream was made possible thanks to a University of Derby GREAT scholarship.
*Some courses may require higher IELTS scores; please refer to the individual course requirements for further information.
The following qualifications grant exemption from Standard English language requirements:
The University of Derby has a number of agents and representatives in South East Asia.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/usa:
We are proud to welcome more than 2,000 international students from 100 countries.
Here you will find important information on scholarships, entry requirements and what it’s like to study at Derby as a student from the USA.
You can also get in touch with our dedicated International Recruitment Officer for the USA.
I came to the University of Derby because I was looking for a graduate programme in the UK that would benefit me in finding employability around
the world.
I have made friends with students from all over the world.
Clarence Clark is not in Kansas anymore - he completed his bachelors degree in America, but has come to Derby to complete his masters as a sport scholar.
You can apply to study with us through Study Across the Pond.
Please check directly with them for more details.
The University of Derby has a number of agents and representatives in the USA.
US citizens or eligible non-citizens enrolled on a course that is at least 50% full-time may be eligible for student aid loans from the US government for their studies.
The University of Derby is authorised as a foreign school to provide loans under the William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program.
Find out more
International Foundation Year:
Undergraduate:
Applicants meeting the following requirements are usually eligible for direct entrance onto Bachelor programmes
Plus one of the following:
Where specific subjects are requested, we can accept an old subject SAT test with a minimum of 500, a new subject SAT with a minimum score of 550, an AP with a minimum score of 3 or High School Honours Classes with a minimum GPA of 3.0.
A two year Associate Degree with a GPA of 3/4 is also acceptable for entrance to the second year of certain programmes
If you've studied in a country where English is the first language like the USA and Canada, you may not need a formal English language qualification.
We will look at everyone's application individually.
We have a dedicated Visa and Immigration Advisor to help answer any questions you have about applying for your visa and understanding what is required.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/where-is-derby.php:
The University of Derby - located in the heart of the UK where both city life and countryside are on your doorstep.
And by road rail or air it's really easy to get to.
Our Derby campus is 1 hour 30 minutes by train from London.
And if you're travelling from overseas Derby is within easy reach of major UK airports.
It's time to find out where we can take you.
Visit derby.ac.uk.
Back to International students

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/international-student-life:
University is much more than a place to learn; it will become your second home.
You will make new friends from all over the world, experience a new culture and learn to live independently in a new country.
It’s an exciting adventure.
Are you ready?
At Derby, we offer a warm welcome, lots of support and interesting places to discover – from bright, busy cities to peaceful countryside.
Explore Life at Derby to find out if the University of Derby is the right choice for you.
If you're living in our halls , take a look at our Residence Life programme of activities and events.
As a student in the UK, you will have a lot of fun and freedom.
Our society is based on the values of democracy, fairness and mutual respect.
Student costs in the UK are also lower than in the USA and Australia, according to research by HSBC Bank.
Derby is one of the most affordable cities in the UK , and thanks to our compact size it's super easy to travel across our campus sites, accommodation, city centre and train station either on foot or via our Unibus.
There are also plenty of part-time jobs if you need to earn money.
There are a number of affordable supermarkets and world food shops in Derby, all located close to or within the city centre, including:
Find out how Sai manages her money as a student, with tips on accommodation, travel, groceries and home essentials - as well as where to find student discounts, free food and giveaways in Derby.
Accommodation in our halls of residence must be booked prior to your arrival to ensure you have a place to stay during your studies.
Whatever you're looking for, we've got something to suit you.
There are over 150 sports clubs and societies on offer at our University – all run by students and supported by the Union.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/international-student-support:
Going to university is not just about your studies, there are lots of other considerations, especially for international students.
Moving to another country, a different language, a new currency, a different style of learning and a diverse culture are all things that may affect you.
For a lot of students, this is also their first time living away from home so you may find that you are not only adjusting to being a new student but to living independently too.
You may already have an idea of the support you will need before you arrive, or it could be that when you get here you find you need help with a certain area.
You are not on your own, the University has an extensive support network in place to help you with all aspects of your student life.
We offer an integrated approach to the support we give to our international students which means that you can access a wide range of support services from across the university including:
Welcome week, induction and enrolment will take place at the start of your first semester.
Find out more about induction and enrolment
Before you come to the UK you must calculate how much money you think you will need and know where your money will come from.
Find out more about banking and finance
In the UK we have a National Health Service (NHS) that provides free medical treatment to permanent residents.
Find out more about health care
Casual work is generally easy to find, but you shouldn't rely on it to support yourself, especially if you're from outside the EEA.
Find out more about working while you study
It's easy to get a UK SIM card, or sign up to a UK mobile phone contract.
When you get here, you will probably want to use a UK SIM card in your mobile phone.
Find out more about setting up a UK SIM and mobile phone contract
If you need information and guidance about your career, our Career Development Centre will be able to help you.
Find out more about our careers and employability support
If you're entering the UK on a Tier 4 visa, you must understand the conditions attached to it.
Find out more about visas and immigration
From the big cities in Nigeria to the community spirit of Derby.
Our dedicated enquiry team can help to answer any questions you have about studying with us.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/international-students/applicants/english-language-tests/oxford-english-language-test:
If English isn't your first language you will need an English language qualification to study at Derby
If you require an IELTS equivalent, you can take the Oxford English Language Level Test (ELLT) .
This is mapped against the IELTS criteria.
We are pleased to share that students who register using this link can use the promo code UODE10 to receive a discounted price of £108, instead of £120.
Please note when clicking onto the Oxford English Language Level Test, you will be leaving the University of Derby website.
Any data you submit into the websites listed below will be subject to that company’s privacy terms and will not sit under the University's privacy policies.
Please use caution when sharing your personal data.
If you have any queries, you can contact the Data Protection Officer at gdpr@derby.ac.uk.
You can find information on registering, paying and completing your ELLT here:
Oxford English Language Level Test Guide
Book now
Our international recruitment team can support with any questions you or your students may have about the Oxford English Language Level Test or email us at askadmissions@derby.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/derby-english-language-centre:
The Derby English Language Centre (DELC) offers you the opportunity to develop your English language skills at one of the UK’s top-performing universities for fair access (HEPI Report, Benchmarking Widening Participation in Universities, April 2018).
Whether you are thinking about going to university or have already started your studies with us, we will work closely with you to improve your academic writing and presentation skills, pronunciation and grammar, among many other things.
We know that as you progress with us your needs will change so we offer a range of bespoke sessions and support from foundation and degree to masters level.
At DELC we will assess your needs and recommend a course of action for you.
International students will normally require a minimum IELTS (International English Language Testing System) level of 6.0 and a student visa to study on one of our courses but please check the exact requirements on the relevant course page.
We are pleased to share that students who register using this link can use the promo code Summer20 to receive a discounted price of £96, instead of £120.
Pre-sessional English courses will help you to achieve the entry-level English requirements for your degree choice at the University of Derby.
These courses are full-time and last five, eight or twelve weeks (depending on the level of English required for your chosen degree).
Courses run twice a year in the summer and then in the autumn to prepare students for a September or January degree start.
For more information including dates and costs, visit our pre-sessional English page .
We can also develop pre-sessional courses specifically for your organisation so if you would like to discuss this with us, please contact Alex Hudson at a.hudson1@derby.ac.uk .
If you are an international student with English language score of UKVI IELTS 6.0 you can apply for our International Foundation Programme which will give you a recognised English qualification so that you can progress to your chosen degree.
Students study full-time (15 hours of class per week plus self-study) for two semesters – normally from September to June.
For more information please visit the International Foundation Programme course page.
We provide free, in-session English language classes to help you perform better in your studies.
We offer courses in Speaking and Academic Writing.
Derby’s position as a leading provider of international qualifications for TESOL teachers (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) means that these qualifications are ideally placed to meet your professional teaching needs, no matter where you are in your teaching career.
We offer opportunities at undergraduate degree and masters level.
These include:
We can also develop a TESOL course specifically for your organisation.
The programme has been aligned to the theory underpinning the Certificate in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages.
The University offers a number of overseas summer schools to enable international university students to have a British university experience, prior to application.
Students prepare socially, academically and linguistically for successful entry onto programmes at the University of Derby.
For example the University has been successfully delivering English courses with British culture summer schools for students at Hubei University in central China for three years.
If you are interested in developing a Summer School for your University then please contact our China Enquiry Team at china@derby.ac.uk .
The UK Visas and Immigration department (UKVI) has made some changes around the English language tests that international students need to take before studying in the UK.
It’s vital that you read and understand the information below.
The new UKVI IELTS tests are Secure English Language Tests, approved by the UK Visas and Immigration department.
The tests are taken at approved testing centres and they provide evidence of your English language level by giving you a score in reading, writing, listening and speaking.
The full name of the test you need to take is IELTS Academic for UKVI.
This new test came into effect on 6 April 2015 and has the same questions and content as a standard IELTS test.
If you are an International student and want to study a pre-sessional programme at the University of Derby you will need to take an IELTS Academic for UKVI test.
You can take the IELTS Academic for UKVI at an approved IELTS SELT Centre.
Book online at IELTS.org and follow the instructions for ‘Applying for a UK Visa?
Find a test'.
We are an institutional member of BALEAP (formerly British Association of Lecturers in English for Academic Purposes) .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/careers-research:
We have a vibrant research environment with around 400 doctoral students and 300 research-active staff.
There's a culture of applied and innovative research, which is led by our colleges and research centres , in collaboration with the University Professorial Council.
If you choose to join us at Derby, here's what you can expect:
A career in research is incredibly rewarding and will allow you to make discoveries that have a huge impact in the real world.
Whether you are starting out as an Early Career Researcher or have already gained experience and are considering your next move, take a look at our career pathway.
The first part of your career will involve being a researcher or lecturer.
Within these roles, there are a range of positions available depending on your experience, such as assistant and senior positions.
Research roles (Research Assistant, Researcher and Senior Researcher) are more commonly associated with fully funded projects while lecturing roles (Lecturer and Senior Lecturer) will allow you to share your knowledge through teaching while working on your own research.
In both roles, you will become an expert in your discipline, generate your own research and support others’ research and bring in external income and funding.
Your research will also contribute to the Research Excellence Framework (REF).
In more senior roles, you will be leading on research programmes, knowledge exchange and enterprise activity.
Within a lecturing role, you will ensure that research informs and inspires a research-led curriculum and teaching.
Having gained considerable experience, progressing to an Associate Professor is the next career step.
There are three roles available as an Associate Professor; Associate Professor (Professional Practice), Associate Professor (Research) and Associate Professor (Learning and Teaching).
All three roles have a slightly different focus, but they each require you to be an expert in your chosen discipline and have a research impact that is nationally and internationally visible.
As an Associate Professor (Professional Practice) you will contribute to the Innovation and Research Strategy and/or the Learning and Teaching Strategy to enhance learning and teaching practices and/or innovation and research.
You will achieve this through academic leadership, professional practice and reputation enhancement.
As an Associate Professor (Research) you will contribute to the Innovation and Research Strategy with academic leadership and research activity through extensive experience in research and research management.
You will also be leading on research-informed activity and collaborative research bids as well as further research projects.
As an Associate Professor (Learning and Teaching) your key focus is to contribute to the Learning and Teaching Strategy to enhance practices, manage and develop learning, develop assessment strategies and deliver leading-edge practice.
This will be achieved through academic leadership and appropriate research activity and by bringing extensive experience in learning, teaching and pedagogic practice.
You will also lead on collaborative research bids in learning and teaching and ensure links are made back to pedagogic practice, the curriculum and student experience as appropriate.
As a Professor at level 3, you will have substantial experience and in-depth knowledge of your specialism, alongside a significant national track record and an emerging international reputation within your field.
You will make a substantial contribution to the pedagogic practice and learning and teaching strategy.
Within your subject/professional specialism, you will have an influence on national policy and your research contributions are beginning to be recognised internationally.
You will also apply your expertise in developing and winning external funding.
You will take on leadership and management roles, including collaborations outside of the University with public and private partners, academic institutions, research funders, government agencies, non-government bodies and industry.
As a level 4 Professor, you have considerable academic standing and experience, with a significant international track record.
Within your field, you will have gained an international reputation, with experience in developing and winning substantial funding and grants.
Your extensive research record will be internationally excellent (as defined through the Research Excellence Framework) and will represent the University externally to industrial partners, research funders and government agencies, advising governmental and non-governmental bodies, in accordance with their chosen specialism.
To be a level 5 Professor you will be widely recognised as a leading authority in your subject area and have achieved high academic distinction.
You are likely to have been elected to esteemed scholarly societies such as the Royal Society, British Academy or comparable societies outside of the United Kingdom.
Within your field, you may have played a pivotal role in working with leading academic, governmental or industrial partners on a range of interdisciplinary collaborations that are highly impactful.
Plus, you will have substantial experience in developing and winning external funding bids, and successfully delivering externally funded multi-institutional/stakeholder projects on time and on budget.
You will be expected to have a sustained record of research activity that is internationally excellent and/or world-leading (as defined through the Research Excellence Framework) and will represent the University externally to industrial partners, research funders and government agencies, advising governmental and non-governmental bodies, in accordance with their chosen specialism.
An Early Career Researcher (ECR) applies to anyone who has recently completed a PhD, regardless of the role you are in.
At Derby, you remain as an ECR for 4 years where you will be supported through a range of development activities run by the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office.
You will be a member of the ECR Forum which is led by a Committee of ECRs.
As an ECR, you are able to apply for internal competitive seedcorn funding.
Other support includes help with funding and grant applications, understanding impact, mentoring schemes, research seminars and networking opportunities.
Visit supporting our researchers to find out more.
The role of Early Career Academic (ECA) was created to attract outstanding, research-active individuals with the ambition to develop a career in academia.
Our ECAs join the University on a one-year contract during which they are provided with an intensive development programme and research mentoring from one of our senior Professors.
This role is for those at the start of their research career who show the potential to be rising stars in their field of research.
The programme allows them to develop as independent researchers and to build their teaching capabilities, providing them with a strong skill set to become a rounded academic member of staff.
By the end of the year, our ECAs will be awarded with a permanent Lecturer contract providing the required development has been met and training has been completed.
After receiving a permanent contract, the ECAs will continue to be supported with their development and will have the opportunity to progress their career via the academic progression pathway.
Browse current vacancies available at the University of Derby.
Search academic, research and professional services jobs in a variety of full-time, part-time, permanent, fixed-term and hourly roles.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/researchers:
Showing 1 - 10 of 301 results
Dr Ahmad Kharaz is a reader in intelligent instrumentation.
Dr Kharaz has extensive experience over many years of undertaking precision measurements, in a wide variety of contexts.
Aimeric is a PhD student who enjoys algebra, statistics and mathematics in general, computer programming, and physics, in particular, cosmology, particle physics and astronomy.
Akinniyi is a Postgraduate Research Student in the field of Geology.
He is also a fellow of the Geological Society of London and a member of the PESGB (Petroleum Exploration Society of Great Britain) and Ussher Society.
Walid Khalid Al Saad is a researcher at the Centre for Supply Chain Improvement (CSCI)/ University of Derby.
My current research investigates the impact of Industry 5.0 sustainability-oriented innovations on warehousing activities to support
Alexander is a Postgraduate Research Student and Associate Lecturer in Psychology.
He uses quantitative research methods to explore fake news, with a specific focus on moral reasoning and metacognition.
Alexandra is a first-year postgraduate research student researching fundamental movement skills, physical activity, and balance during early childhood.
Alistair Turvill is a lecturer in Early Childhood Studies.
Alistair's primary responsibilities include leading the provision of health modules on the BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies and oversight of the foundation students entering the degree pathway.
We have around 300 research-active staff at Derby and 400 doctoral students.
They are investigating subjects as diverse as cybercrime, Long Covid, mental health, biomedical science, greener forms of transport, and asylum seekers' experiences.
Learn more about our people and their research.
We are working hard to enable all academics and researchers to succeed regardless of their gender, race and background.
We're a member of Athena SWAN and organise a variety of activities throughout the year to promote gender equality.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/inaugural-lecture-series:
An inaugural lecture is a prestigious academic event that celebrates the promotion of a colleague to professorship, marking a significant milestone in their academic journey.
Inaugural lectures have been an integral part of university life for centuries, and the University of Derby proudly continues this tradition.
These events serve as an invaluable platform for newly appointed professors to present their groundbreaking research, highlight their accomplishments in research, innovation, engagement, and teaching, and demonstrate the societal impact of their work.
Inaugural lectures at the University of Derby are open to the public and free of charge.
You don't need to be an expert in the field to attend, as the university warmly invites all staff, students, their guests, and members of the local community to participate.
All our lectures are free of charge and attendance is open to all.
Each lecture will be recorded and a video will be made available to watch after the event.
Our in-person lectures are followed by an informal drinks reception.
View Inaugural Lecture video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/mktp:
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) can last for between 12 months and three years and are part-funded by a government grant.
You can use a KTP to:
The University of Derby is proud to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) programme in the UK and the unique support it has provided to our local and regional businesses and organisations to drive applied innovation and economic success across our community.
A KTP is a partnership between your organisation (the company), the University (the knowledge base) and a recent graduate (KTP associate).
It comes with government funding, which can pay for up to two thirds of the project cost.
A partnership is formed to work on a specific project that addresses a business need.
The overall aim of the KTP is to help your business make a step change in an area that you have identified as a high priority.
Working with your organisation, the Associate leverages the knowledge, skills and technology available within the University of Derby, to work on the project.
The Associate is closely supervised and supported by an academic expert as well as by someone within your business.
The project possibilities are endless.
For example, your project could involve:
If your project is related to improving management practices, you would be suited to a specific Management KTP (MKTP) .
View Knowledge Transfer Partnerships video transcript
With our help you will identify an academic or researcher who has the right expertise for your organisation.
You will then define and agree on a project that will enable you to draw on their expertise and apply it to your business.
The agreed project could be for any length of time between 12 months to three years, depending on your business needs.
We offer a dedicated KTP team that assists with application processes, project development, associate recruitment, administrative support, relationship management and pastoral care.
Any business sector can apply, including ‘not for profit’ and public sector organisations.
A KTP is part-funded by a government grant.
A small to medium-sized enterprise (SME) would be expected to contribute about a third of the costs involved in the project — usually at least £25,000 per year.
Find out about some of the KTPs we've recently completed or are currently working on.
A team involving economists from our University and a graduate, have developed a way to measure the economic impact of Chatsworth and the wider Devonshire Group.
Derbyshire Wildlife Trust has chosen to work with our University on a new, two-year Management Knowledge Transfer Partnership (MKTP).
This will help the Trust establish a business model for ...
We're working with Aquis to develop machine learning capabilities that will help them monitor trading behaviour and identify abuses within financial markets.
Computer science researchers from our University are working with FP Solutions, a business intelligence provider to the motor trader, on a 30-month Knowledge Transfer Partnership.
The major rolling stock leasing company, Porterbrook, wanted to resolve an issue with the handrails on its trains.
Find out how a KTP supported Chatsworth to achieve their 10-year strategic plan
View Helping Chatsworth measure its economic impact video transcript
Just like traditional KTPs, MKTPs create a three-way partnership between your company, a team of academic experts and a skilled graduate.
However, the focus with MKTPs is on improving management practices.
To find out more about Knowledge Transfer Partnerships:
T: +44 (0)1332 597815
E: KnowledgeExchange@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/derbys-response-to-coronavirus-research:
Alongside partners in the UK and overseas, our researchers are part of the global effort to fight the COVID-19 virus.
From supporting the NHS to investigating health and wellbeing, we are researching the immediate impact of the virus as well as the longer-term implications for society.
Our experts are investigating how patients recovering from coronavirus can be supported while we are also finding ways to support our NHS workers through innovative research.
An international study of the impact that the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown has had on the recovery of people suffering from drug addiction is to be led by a University of Derby academic.
A University of Derby academic is among a team of researchers and professionals providing guidance to clinicians who are likely to be having difficult conversations.
Researchers at the University of Derby are supporting the national effort to combat COVID-19 by producing visors for healthcare staff at local hospitals.
A study by Dr Mark Faghy concludes face masks are safe to wear during exercise, including in rehabilitation activity for patients recovering from the virus.
Our researchers are tackling the mental health implications of COVID-19 for adults and children in the UK and overseas.
Researchers from the University of Derby and University of Nottingham have launched the first research project focusing on those who have had to transition to home working, as a consequence of the loc...
The Nature Connectedness Research Group at the University of Derby has provided some resources to help you look after your mental wellbeing during the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak.
SOS CVI Italy and the University of Derby Nature Connectedness Research Group have collaborated to help people have free, informed access to evidence-based interventions that could help improve connec...

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/research-news:
Researchers have created a new scale designed to capture and measure the concept of self-criticism in children, as mental health concerns rise across the world.
A ground-breaking research project looking to find a treatment for symptoms of long Covid is underway, as the nation marks five years since the start of the pandemic.
The live event industry is set to transform with the launch of the HELA (Healthy Ears, Limited Annoyance) Certification, the world's first initiative aimed at promoting best practices for responsible sound management at live events.
A team of marine biologists at the University of Derby are pioneering groundbreaking research into seagrass restoration, one of the world's most important yet rapidly declining marine habitats.
Marvin Cooke, Professor of Enterprise (Professional Practice) at the University of Derby, has been awarded an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in HM The King’s New Year Honours List for 2025.
Scientists have discovered similarities between the present-day separation of tectonic plates in Africa and the ongoing formation of Iceland, in what in what is believed to be a world-first.
A technique that could help build large structures in space and give ‘space junk’ a new lease of life is being trialled by a team of scientists led by the University of Derby.
Garment workers and their employers are taking part in a research project which aims to promote more responsible business practices.
The project involves a team of researchers from the University of Derby, University of Essex, Manchester Metropolitan University and Universal College Bangladesh.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/spin-out-review:
Statement of full adoption of Recommendation One of the Independent Review of University Spin-Out Companies
The University of Derby welcomes the independent review of university spin-outs published in November 2023, aimed at accelerating innovation-led economic growth through university-grown spin-out companies.
The University has now fully adopted Recommendation One of the Spinout Review.
The University reviewed its Intellectual Property (IP) policies in 2023, setting out a clear approach to supporting IP generated at Derby.
The University has fully embraced all the best practice from Recommendation One of the spin-out review and has further aligned its policies and practices for establishing spin-out companies within the newly developed spinout guide.
In response to the review, the University has:
By aligning policies and procedures with sector best practice, the University will now be able to advance future spinout formations in an agile, streamlined and efficient way, which will offer full transparency for all parties.
This new approach will provide the University with the best opportunity to form successful spin-outs to drive new opportunities and new solutions.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/strategy:
The University of Derby's Innovation and Research Strategy (IRS) drives our ambition to be internationally recognised for high-quality research.
Through six Academic Research Themes, we unite expertise across colleges to enhance research excellence and tackle global challenges.
Our 'One University' Strategy, governed by the Innovation and Research Executive Steering Committee and implemented via College Research Committees, integrates key strategies: REF2029, Business and Engagement, Careers and Employment, Teaching and Learning, Global Engagement, and the Civic Agenda.
We aim for a REF2029 GPA of 3*+, focusing on research quality, impact, and volume.
Key priorities include fostering a positive research culture, building partnerships, advancing interdisciplinary research, and leveraging innovations like GenAI and data science.
Our Doctoral College supports emerging academics, and initiatives like Athena Swan and the Technician Commitment ensure equitable recognition of contributions.
Aligned with our net-zero carbon goal by 2050, the Environmental Sustainability Strategy embeds sustainable practices into research, guided by the Environmental Sustainability Committee and our commitment to restoring biodiversity through Nature Positive Universities.
Our four organisational values sit at the heart of this strategy and guide our approach:
Across all career stages, we aim to create an inclusive, vibrant and diverse research culture, which identifies, cultivates and nurtures all talent with a commitment to positive action where appropriate.
We encourage bold and innovative research that will drive our expectation to promote research quality at all levels, from undergraduate and postgraduate research through to our professional, technical and academic teams.
Co-creation of our research agenda with our partners (Civic, Patient and Public Involvement and related industries) will advance the development of research with impact.
Regionally we are strategically located to service our local businesses and partners, which speaks to our Civic commitment.
A rich and vibrant research environment is intrinsically linked to the passion and enthusiasm of students and staff that stems from intellectual curiosity and enquiry.
We aim to create a universally accessible environment for all researchers that encourages, supports, and incentivises internationally excellent research quality.
This will encourage and enable students and staff to generate research with impact that has outstanding reach and significance.
Strategic partnerships (national and international) involve researchers at all levels that support disciplinary and interdisciplinary research across internal (Theme, UoA members, Civic) and external partnerships (Industry, Government, Councils, Civic etc).
Our aim is to identify partnerships that will increase the mutually beneficial quality of our research impact and encourage cross-disciplinary collaboration within the organisation to combine diverse expertise and perspectives.
These initiatives will accelerate our ambition to significantly increase our third-stream income.
Central to research excellence are the first principles of research, which incorporate the “Practice of the Trinity of Good Research: research integrity, ethics and governance” (Kolstoe and Pugh, 2023).
We are committed to delivering research excellence that is governed by effective policies and processes that are transparent, efficient and accountable.
As an ethically responsible institution, enhancing our Research Principles will strengthen our research integrity and reputation as a university that is a responsible partner and gatekeeper of research so that the quality and validity of our research is trustworthy and trusted.
The approach of the IRS focuses on People, Place, Partnerships, and Principles.
We cultivate an inclusive research culture, adopt impactful partnerships, and ground our work in ethical principles.
By aligning our research with local and global needs, we strive for excellence that benefits society and upholds our commitment to integrity.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/how-research-is-managed:
At Derby, we have strong leadership for innovation and research and clear strategic priorities, which focus on creating impact.
Our University Innovation and Research Committee and University Professorial Council help set the strategy and ensure researchers have a voice within the University's highest decision-making structures.
Delivering on that strategy and ensuring there is a supportive research environment is the job of the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office, which acts as the main point of contact for both staff and student researchers.
View Research at the University of Derby video transcript
Through Professor Warren Manning , Provost Innovation and Research, innovation and research has a voice at the highest level of decision-making within the University: the Executive Board.
Warren also chairs the University Innovation and Research Committee (UIRC).
Alongside Warren, Professor Myra Conway , our Associate Provost for Innovation and Research, leads the University’s research and innovation strategy, fostering collaboration, enhancing research culture, and driving excellence in REF outcomes.
At the University of Derby, research and innovation are at the heart of everything we do – informing teaching, supporting businesses, driving partnerships, and delivering real-world impact.
Our Innovation & Research Department (I&R) oversees all research and knowledge exchange activity, from funding opportunities and researcher development to external submissions, ethics, and impact.
We provide an environment where research can thrive, helping staff and students develop groundbreaking ideas that support communities, improve lives, and challenge the status quo.
Our Colleges, Academic Themes, and Research Centres promote cross-disciplinary collaboration, inclusion, and diversity, ensuring that specialisms emerge and flourish.
We nurture research talent at every stage:
Innovation doesn’t stop in the lab – it transforms industries, policies, and communities.
Our Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) enable businesses to access cutting-edge research to drive competitive advantage.
We also offer funding and support programmes to maximise the benefits of knowledge exchange.
Through strategic partnerships – including Rolls-Royce and the Nuclear Skills Academy, Bloc Digital’s Digital Technology Studio, and our Civic University Agreement – we strengthen our role in driving innovation and economic growth.
As part of the East Midlands Doctoral Network (EMDoc), we collaborate with eight other universities to share best practices, benchmark progress, and expand research opportunities.
EMDoc enables us to:
Our Business Engagement and Employability Team ensures that research translates into real-world applications by:
We have a University Professorial Council, which provides strategic support to the University Innovation Research Committee.
The Council helps to develop and implement policy and practice that aims to enhance research and innovation quality, intensity, and the environment.
The Professorial Council played a key role in developing the Innovation and Research Strategy.
The Council is made up of professors, associate professors and early-career researchers from across the University.
We have an Impact Officer Team, led by Dr Larissa Allwork , Associate Professor in History and Impact, which is based in I&R.
Each Impact Officer supports a college and aims to get the most impact out of their research.
They help drive research and impact forward, as well as providing training and resources to support the understanding of impact.
The team also help academics plan their impact, develop and deliver engagement projects and work with partners, capture robust evidence, track progress on impact, evaluate outcomes and benefits, and ensure research impact is shared.
In recognition of our excellence in supporting impact through research-informed public engagement, the University of Derby was awarded a Bronze National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) Watermark Award in 2022.
Dr Larissa Allwork is Associate Professor in History and Impact.
She leads the Derby Impact, Collaboration and Engagement Network (DICE) .
She has worked extensively on the Higher Education impact and public engagement agendas.
At Derby, she co-ordinated the impact submission for the Research Excellence Framework 2021 (REF 2021); wrote the public and community engagement statement for the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) and is co-leading the University’s NCCPE Watermark submission.
She also engages with the public as a twentieth-century historian of war, conflict and genocide.
She is a member of the Derby Holocaust Memorial Day Working Group; an Honorary Associate Fellow of the University of Leicester’s Stanley Burton Centre for Holocaust and Genocide Studies, and a member of the Steering and Skills Group of the Imperial War Museum's Second World War and Holocaust Partnership Programme.
You can contact her by email at L.Allwork@derby.ac.uk .
Dr Lenore Thompson is an Impact Officer for the College of Arts, Humanities and Education, supporting researchers and communities with resources and training on impact.
As a professional archaeologist and community heritage consultant, Lenore has a broad range of experience co-creating and conducting projects designed to connect people with their shared past and promote social cohesion.
Her research interests relate to culture contact, colonialism, and the societal impacts and ramifications of these experiences.
She also studies the physical properties of human material culture, investigating how people make things and how things make people.
Lenore is a member of the Register of Professional Archaeologists and the Society of Post-Medieval Archaeology (SPMA).
You can contact her by email at L.Thompson3@derby.ac.uk .
Understanding and navigating research funding can be overwhelming, particularly when there are a range of funders, funding types and opportunities available.
Within the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office, we have a dedicated team who can support you in finding research funding.
They will guide you through the types of funders including Government funding, UK-based charities, trusts and foundations, and international funders, as well as exploring the funding that is available through networking grants, project grants, research fellowships and Knowledge Transfer Partnership tender and evaluation.
Throughout the process of applying for external funding, researchers and professional services teams are supported by our digital system; Haplo Research Manager.
Streamlining and digitising the process, the Research Manager will support with:
For guidance on how to use Research Manager, visit our information pages (login required)
For guidance or information on funding, contact our support team at bidsupport@derby.ac.uk
If you are struggling to carry out research and innovation within your business, partnering with us could be the solution.
The University of Derby is concerned to protect the rights, dignity, safety and privacy of research participants, the welfare of animals and the integrity of the environment.
Our 2021 REF submission saw a significant increase in both the volume and quality of outputs.
Derby Impact, Collaboration and Engagement Network (DICE) offers a supportive culture where academics and others can share their experiences, tips, thoughts and best practices for public engagement.
In this lecture series, our new professorial colleagues showcase their research with a broad audience.
Find out about the forthcoming lectures.
We are delighted to be an early adopter of INORMS’s More Than Our Rank initiative.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/whats-new-in-research:
We are pleased to announce an upcoming Industry Engagement Event designed to bring together both new and existing business partners at the University of Derby.
To hear about the latest projects we're working on, directly from the researchers themselves, head over to the blog.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/making-a-difference-inside-the-minds-of-university-of-derby-researchers.php:
Set to an inspiring backing track, this video interviews four people as they chart their personal stake in University of Derby Research.
Kara Rising, PhD student in Marine Microbial Ecology: [Kara sits in a lab with maps in the background.
Footage shown includes going underwater into the sea, divers by fish swimming amongst corals.]
"What got me really interested in research is probably pretty similar to a lot of people who are in my field of marine biology.
I was a little girl and just fascinated with the ocean.
Like, obsessed with the ocean.
There is nothing I can think of that would make me happier than every day being able to answer and find more of the information that would help answer the questions that I really just am dying to know every day."
Dr David Elliott, Associate Professor in Microbiology: [David sits in a lab with microscope and specimen display cabinets.
Footage shown includes David observing a test tube.]
"I can't remember when I started being interested in research.
It's just something that's been forever.
I completed my microbiology degree and microbiology is a fantastic topic because it opens up a whole world of possibilities: in health and disease, in environmental sciences, in biotechnology, just to name a few.
And I'm interested in all of those things."
Dr Urvashi Gunputh, Researcher and Lecturer in Additive Manufacturing: [Urvashi sits in a conference room.
Footage shown includes Urvashi talking with a student in the Human Performance Unit and using a handheld scanner to map their foot.
The student walks while a tracking system monitors their gait.]
"Originally I’m from Mauritius, where I did my undergraduate degree in biomedical science, and I was aiming to become a medical doctor after that.
However, I wasn’t too impressed with the fact that the theory that we were learning it was, but we were not actually applying it in real life there.
So I wanted to go into the technology side of things and dig more and do more research to be able to develop those technologies that we are learning, apply the theory and bring it to life.
I always wanted to go in industry, and Derby gave me the opportunity to work in a university, but work with companies, work with industry and collaborate with them.
Companies who bring our research to life."
Adam Leighton, Senior Technical Advisor in Additive Manufacturing: [Adam sits in front of a large cutting machine in the IISE.
Footage shown includes him using 3D modelling software, a 3D printer producing an orthotic part demo, and Adam using a powder printer to produce the real piece.]
"Within my role, I'm mostly working with additive manufacturing, which is, to some, a new technology.
There are a lot of benefits when it comes to additive manufacturing.
It gives us a lot of design freedom to create parts and build parts more quickly than traditional manufacturing methods.
It also gives us greater freedom in terms of design.
We're able to design parts which couldn't be machined by traditional methods."
Kara: [Footage includes seeing students with scuba tanks swimming amongst corals.]
"One of the things I love about research is that it's so varied.
Every day looks different.
I could be in the lab one day, I could be in the field the next, and every single thing that I do just fills me with, like, such fascination and joy in what I'm doing.
And so that is what really made me excited to go to Derby is because of all the really great research that's cutting edge in that field."
David: [Footage includes David with another researcher collecting samples out in the field, bringing it back to the lab and extracting the sample.]
"Derby is a great place for me for progressing my research.
My research has got local focus, but it's also got a global focus to it as well.
I want my research to to serve the needs of the local communities, but I also want it to have global significance in what we do.
We don't want to produce research for research sake.
We want to produce research that is fit for society's needs and fit for solving the challenges of today and tomorrow."
Urvashi: [Footage includes an NHS grade ward environment as the nurse takes notes at a medicine dispensing point.]
"Currently, the project that we are working on is in collaboration with our local NHS trust.
It is on digitalising the workflow for design and manufacturing of orthotics and prosthetic products.
The impact that we are hoping this project will have is to digitalise the design manufacturing process, to increase the efficiency of our local trust, to work with other NHS trusts, and to reduce the carbon dioxide emission of NHS."
Adam: [Footage includes Adam's 3D scan on computer becoming the real part that is form fitted to the patient's foot and ankle.]
"Being in Derby, we're well placed to collaborate with leading manufacturers, in engineering for aerospace and the rail industry and also, some of the automotive industries who can be working on, large scale products from prototypes, maybe proving concepts, down to materials testing and in-depth studies.
A lot of the work we do feeds into making additive manufacturing more widely accepted and widely used in the industry.
As engineers, we're always building on the work of other people.
Even the most, small breakthrough can lead to something quite, quite significant further down the line.
Contributing to that overall goal is really worthwhile."
Kara: [Footage includes showing tropical fish swimming on the sea floor, followed by a turtle swimming.]
"So my research is focused on looking at how we can develop a probiotic Marine research in probiotic essentially, so beneficial bacteria, that will help seagrass.
One of the really cool things about seagrass is that, it is known to sequester carbon.
And so when, unfortunately, those seagrass degrade, that carbon that's trapped in the sediment is unfortunately released back into the water column and then potentially can contribute more to climate change.
And so by hopefully being able to help contribute to seagrass health through this probiotic that I'm researching, maybe that will be able to have some impact on the acceleration of climate change.
My professor in particular, like he wants me to succeed.
And he has such great connections that by coming to Derby, I'm able to actually work all over the world.
So it feels like a dream to be working as a researcher.
And so sometimes when I wake up in the morning, I'm like, I get to go and actually do the thing that I've always wanted to do.
I bet four year old me would be so proud of adult me right now!"
David:
"I think if you're considering becoming a researcher, you probably kind of already are one, because it's just something that's inbuilt to people that they’re inquisitive and, and if you're sort of thinking along those lines, I'd say you can do it."
Kara: [Footage includes two turtles swimming amongst healthy corals.]
"If you have the passion for it, if you have the drive for it, that's one of the key things that you should have in there.
It's not as glamorous as what you see on TV.
Every day doesn’t look like you're out there catching sharks and being able to dive in the ocean: sometimes you're actually knee deep in mud!
But, as long as you have that drive to learn more about whatever it is that you're studying, then that's one of the best things that you can do.
And so you should go for it."
David: [Footage includes David and another researcher working both in the field and at a computer that shows charts of results.]
"We really want the undergraduate students to be a part of our research community.
A key outcome for our graduates is that they become creators of knowledge, which means they have to be engaged in research.
You have to reach out to the staff and say, 'I'm interested in your work., How can I get involved?' If you choose to be a part of the research, you really can."
Kara:
"The world needs more researchers.
We have always new things that we need to learn."
University of Derby logo
Back to Innovation and research at Derby

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/register-b2b-newsletter:
Stay connected with the University of Derby's Business to Business team.
Find out about our research, higher level apprenticeships, events and much more!

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/events/business:
Celebrating 50 years of KTPs with the University of Derby
Meet a wide range of local employers and charities offering part-time work or volunteer experience that fits around your university studies.
Network with professionals from over 50 employers and find valuable opportunities to boost your career.
Ask about graduate roles, placement and internship opportunities, and get tips on recruitment processes.
The Built Environment Careers Fair on Wednesday 5 November is ideal for students interested in construction, civil engineering, quantity surveying, architecture, and related fields.
With over 25 employers exhibiting, the Fair will help you take the next step towards a successful career shaping the world around us.
The Engineering and Technology Careers Fair on Thursday 6 November is ideal for students interested in careers and employers across the engineering and technology sectors, who are actively recruiting for graduate roles, placements, and internships.
The Law, Criminology and Social Sciences Careers Fair takes place 20 November 2025 at One Friar Gate Square.
The event is perfect for students interested in legal careers, criminal justice, policing, social research, and related fields.
Connect directly with the next generation of talent and promote your apprenticeship programmes.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/enterprise-support:
Enterprise involves creating and applying ideas within practical situations.
Enterprising behaviours encompass communication skills, adaptability, curiosity, proactivity and determination, which are also essential skills for employability.
We have a range of support available to create opportunities and help you to build your entrepreneurial skills.
By fostering a culture of enterprise across the University, we are enhancing and strengthening both Derby’s entrepreneurial ecosystem and beyond to support entrepreneurs to thrive.
The next generation of future game-changers are right here in Derby.
You are problem solvers, critical thinkers, risk takers, impact seekers and idea rebels.
You are creating the change you want to see in the world.
You are making your ideas happen.
Be the Boss helped students and recent graduates bring their business ideas into reality with support from experienced business advisors, workshops, action planning and other activities.
Find out more about enterprise at the University of Derby by emailing enterprise@derby.ac.uk
Our Enterprise Service from the University of Derby collaborated with JDR Group by launching the Digital Impact Mentorship Competition, celebrating their 20th anniversary.
This initiative marked two d...
Banks Mill Studios is an innovation space for creative and digital industries, located in a landmark building within the heart of Derby City Centre.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/starting-up:
'Be the Boss' is our award-winning enterprise support programme for students and graduates of our University.
It includes workshops, one-to-one support and action planning.
From networking events to enlightening talks and workshops: join us at one of our business-focused events.
Our 'Inspired Business' podcast brings you engaging and inspiring stories from across the business landscape in Derby, Derbyshire and beyond.
We have developed a brand-new business health check tool specifically for small organisations.
This free resource is designed to offer practical information and guidance, on how to recover and improve business performance during the current economic climate.
Looking for a professional workspace that won't cost the earth?
Look no further.
We have free co-working spaces and affordable incubation units.
All of them come with ready-made support networks to help you succeed.
Read how other entrepreneurs are making their business ideas happen, with our help.
Sam Appentsen is a University of Derby graduate who started working for himself while studying for his degree.
He now has two digital marketing businesses.
Stevie Davies is an artist and designer who works with glass, and she's spent the last six and a half years developing her business at our incubation unit, Banks Mill Studios.
A case study that looks at new affiliate member, Erica Horne as she joins Banks Mill and the Innovation Hothouse.
Aishwarya Deshpande completed 'Be the Boss', our start-up programme for students and graduates, and she's now established Move for Wellbeing, a dance and movement therapy business.
Graduate David Hambling is the owner of The Joy of Pages, a publishing services company.
He set up his business with the help of our 'Be The Boss' programme.
Graduate Abbie Sunter specialises in ceramic art and worked with Paul Cummins on the poppy installation at the Tower of London in 2014.
She now has her own studio at one of our incubation units.
Fashion graduate Alexey Morozov now has his own luxury fashion label and provides a conscious manufacturing and alterations service from his studio in Banks Mill incubation unit.
We've got funding and support for this stage of your business journey too.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/scaling-up:
Get up to 40 hours of free consultancy for your business, from our academic and technical experts.
You could be eligible for business grants and loans, as well as funded support programmes.
These aim to help small-or-medium-sized businesses like yours grow, innovate, de-carbonise or upskill.
If our funded programmes aren't for you, try our range of CPD and short courses covering a variety of business and management subjects.
These can offer an affordable way to enhance the skills in your team.
R&D or innovation can help future-proof your business and move it forward.
But in smaller businesses, it can be difficult to find the time or the right expertise to do it all in-house.
Partnering with us could be the solution.
Bring fresh thinking into your business with a student or graduate: from internships and work experience to full graduate roles.
We often have funding to help local businesses pay for talent, and also offer free recruitment support.
Read how other small-and-medium-sized businesses are growing and innovating with our help.
Experts in augmented reality and virtual reality, Bloc Digital, have benefited from a package of business support, student and graduate talent, and research expertise and funding.
SureScreen Scientifics and its sister company have been working with us to access student and graduate talent, as well as funding for facilities and research expertise.
Devtank, an open source engineering company, has been benefitting from research support, skills development, graduate talent and mentoring.
Read their story.
We've helped agency, Impressions, upskill its whole team by creating a bespoke strategic digital marketing course.
Supply chain technology providers, Orderly, won funding to develop a new product through our Invest to Grow scheme.
Ethical ice cream company, Just-Ice, took on a funded graduate intern to help them develop a delivery strategy to support their new e-commerce app.
We helped data science firm Elastacloud expand its client base in the Midlands through one of our funded business support programmes, Enscite.
AIS develop support software for the airport industry.
We have been working with them on succession planning, new skills development and networking.
Dales Fabrications, which designs and manufactures aluminium building products, won funding to improve its facilities through our Invest to Grow scheme.
We also work with companies of your maturity and size.
Explore our full range of services for business, including executive education and apprenticeships, research partnerships, mentoring and graduate recruitment.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/established:
Our Invest to Grow scheme provides loans and grants to businesses based in the East Midlands.
If you are a small-to-medium-sized business, you could be eligible for our range of funded business support programmes.
We have specialist facilities and over 500 researchers with a broad range of expertise who want to collaborate with businesses like yours to deliver real impact.
We can also access funding for your R&D through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and other schemes.
Make us your first choice provider for the training and development of your employees: from CPD and short courses, to apprenticeships, executive masters degrees and bespoke programmes.
Funding is available for SMEs.
Find and develop your future leaders or build short-term capacity in your teams, with our large talent pool of students and graduates.
From ad-hoc projects to internships and full graduate roles, we can help you find and mentor the right people for your business.
Read the latest thoughts and insights on business from our academic experts.
Find out how we've been supporting and adding value to the work of other established businesses.
Our Apprenticeships team have been working with energy provider E.ON since 2019, providing apprenticeships to develop the company’s future leaders.
We've been helping manufacturing firm, Penny Hydraulics, expand, innovate and diversify its product offer.
We've been helping a range of Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire businesses reduce their carbon footprint.
We've set up a new research centre specialising in rail and are working across the sector on R&D collaborations.
Our researchers have delivered metal 3D printing solutions for the National Grid and other industries.
We've formed a research partnership with financial technology firm Aquis Exchange PLC.
We're working with healthcare innovation company UVAMED to test the concept of 'rainbow trays', a tool designed to help reduce mistakes when administering anaesthetics.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-stories/goldbox:
What do Bear Grylls, a dance studio and a women’s charity have in common?
They’ve all experienced the magic touch of Goldbox Productions.
These four Derby Film Production graduates launched their business while studying and went full-time in 2020.
They’re already making their mark in the world of film and video.
Josh Spaticchia, Ben Collison, James Heaney and Odhran Taylor met during the second year of their course when they collaborated on a film.
“Our lecturers encouraged us to start making our own content,” explains Josh.
“So we got together through the course chat and the result was a short film called Virtual Brutality.
We took it to festivals and it won a few awards, with nine nominations in total.
That was when we saw the potential.”
Ben takes up the story: “On the way back from Birmingham Film Festival, we said what if we made a production company, and then it extended into how about we make it a business and go full-time.”
View Goldbox's story video transcript
These enterprising students had their business up and running well before they graduated.
And then along came coronavirus, just as they were finishing their final projects and preparing for life beyond university.
But they’re certainly making the best of the situation.
Living and working together, there’s plenty of time for them to focus on the business.
“It’s given us time to develop the business more,” says James.
They’ve been creating too, finding a niche in sport and fitness videos with companies such as Energie Fitness.
They’ve also worked with Bear Grylls on his new Be Military Fit Initiative, and with Derby-based Darley Dance.
“They usually do a Christmas show,” says Ben.
“Because of lockdown they wanted to go virtual, so we helped them create their whole show online.”
So how has studying at Derby helped them come so far so soon?
For Odhran, it was the chance to find his identity: “Coming to university helped me find my voice, my skillset.
I think that’s down to the tutors giving me the opportunity to learn.”
James says it’s been the people they met.
“Without going to the University of Derby we’d never have met each other.
Also the lecturers – people like Tom Craig, our head lecturer.
When people contacted the University needing videography work, he would come to us asking if we would be able to take on the job.
He helped to get our name out there.”
Ongoing support from the University has been an added factor in their success.
Though none of them are from Derby - Ben is from Leicester, James from Lichfield, and Josh and Odhran both from Milton Keynes - they have stayed in the city after graduating.
They have been involved with the Innovation Hothouse, a University-run support network and co-working space for self-employed Derby students and graduates.
“The University has been so supportive,” says Odhran.
“Not just through what they normally do with alumni – reaching out, career advice and so on – but setting us up in the Innovation Hothouse, telling us about Marketing Derby, which we’re involved in.”
The guys are happy to give back too.
They have supported Derby’s Women’s Work charity to showcase their new refuge, despite a lack of funds.
And, when a drama school came to film with them, they made sure the students got to try the view from behind the camera, giving them hints and tips on techniques to help with their performance.
Where do they go from here?
Josh is brimming with confidence for the future: “Our experience at uni working in large teams on projects has really set us up for our business – there’s no project that’s too big for us.
I’m confident that no matter who comes to use, we can create something great for them.”
They’re ambitious words, but with their track record so far, you wouldn’t bet against them.
Goldbox looks set for a golden future.
After raising a family, Clearing gave Claire Brown a path towards her career.
Jessica Lucas's A-level grades were lower than she had hoped for and she was doubting her ability.
Encouraged her to go to university by her friends, she has now found the self-belief she was missing.
He’s recently spent the weekend at Brands Hatch racing circuit working for an outside broadcast company.
Charley Webster-Clarke realised she was on a path her heart wasn't and changed direction to pursue her passion for motorsport.
Now she's embracing both the theory and practical side of the course and ...
Charlotte Evans came to university with a pragmatic approach to learning.
Now she is completely and utterly in love.
But she overcame her fears of leaving home.
And now she’s a Fashion Design graduate working with global names in motorcycle racing.
Jessica Boateng dreams of running her own interiors business.
Discovering her African heritage through textiles and a bursary to support diversity are helping her build the skills to get her there.
Barbora Horackova's dream was to study in the UK and she found the courage and belief in herself to do it.
And he is carrying them with him in his determination to become a police officer.
Anyone who has seen him perform We Are Derby from the centre circle at a packed Pride Park Stadium will agree.
He is a poet.
Mark Faghy is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid.
They are now putting all the skills they have learned into practice.
She likes staying open to opportunities, pursuing her career, and making a difference in people’s lives along the way.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/sure-screen:
For the last six years, the University of Derby has successfully collaborated with analytical laboratory, SureScreen Scientifics , and its sister company, SureScreen Diagnostics Ltd , on a range of knowledge exchange projects.
From Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, to contract research, student and graduate recruitment and funding for capital projects.
This partnership work has enabled SureScreen to create a new revenue stream, new jobs, and most recently, to make a significant contribution to the global fight against Covid-19.
SureScreen Scientifics is an analytical laboratory based in Derbyshire, which provides material investigation, scientific consultancy and analysis in engineering and ecology.
SureScreen Diagnostics is a separate part of the group and focuses on providing rapid diagnostic equipment and services around the world.
Our relationship with SureScreen Scientifics began in 2014 with a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP).
For this project, we joined forces to develop a new ecological surveying technique, which used environmental DNA (eDNA).
Our University has an international reputation for using eDNA to monitor and quantify biodiversity in the natural environment.
By sharing our research expertise in this area, we helped SureScreen to develop a new service and a new revenue stream.
The collaboration also included:
This provided valuable opportunities for our students, graduates and researchers to apply their knowledge and skills in a pioneering area of forensic ecology.
Since 2014, the University of Derby has been delivering the ‘Invest to Grow’ scheme, awarding over £20m of grants and loans to the region’s businesses as part of a comprehensive package to provide not only knowledge and skills but also the capital investment required to innovate, grow and create jobs.
In 2015, SureScreen was awarded £68,430 from Invest to Grow to help it develop and fit-out a lab facility specifically for its new eDNA service, which was developed as part of the KTP.
This funding allowed the business to increase the capacity and breadth of its market offer.
It also led to the creation of ten new, high value jobs.
David Campbell, Director at SureScreen commented:
“This led to a significant increase in both our sales and profitability over the first year, with both increasing by double-figure percentages.
Invest to Grow provided a great opportunity to access investment capital, which propelled us forward in a way we would not have been able to do organically.”
More recently, SureScreen Diagnostics became one of the first laboratories to create a Covid-19 ten-minute test, now used across the world from Panama to Portugal.
To cope with the demand for this product, SureScreen needed to employ high-calibre students quickly, to help assemble and distribute the kits.
They turned to us for help with recruitment and, through the ERDF supported Productivity Through Innovation project, we were pleased to be able to offer funding along with the highly skilled candidates required to meet their needs.
SureScreen's ten-minute test has received high-level validation from Guys and St Thomas's Foundation Trust, Cambridge University and King's College London.
Many private companies are using the test in the UK and it is awaiting final Public Health England approval to be used in the NHS.
It is already being used extensively by public and private organisations in more than 30 countries including Germany, Spain and Sweden.
David Campbell said the company was “delighted to have been able to give young people the chance to be at the cutting edge of the fight against Covid 19”, as were we.
It’s another example of how our students can make practical, positive differences in the world, at the same time as enhancing their own employability.
For further information or to discuss working in partnership with us, please contact our Business Enquiry Team on +44 (0)800 001 5500 or businessgateway@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/case-studies/case-study-eon:
E.ON currently has 30 apprentices enrolled on two of our programmes: the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (undergraduate, Level 6) and the Senior Leader Apprenticeship (postgraduate, Level 7).
Apprentice Co-ordinator for E.ON, Darren Cook, explains how E.ON works with the university: “We’ve built a great relationship with the University of Derby over the last couple of years.
They are very transparent in helping us support the apprentices to be successful and ensuring that together, we get the best out of our apprentices and help them achieve the results they deserve.”
Darren chose to work with our University for several reasons: “I initially found out about Derby’s apprenticeships by searching on the Institute of Apprenticeships website.
I decided to work with them based on factors such as their success ratings, Ofsted reports and above all, interactions with the team.
We immediately clicked with Andy Dowling, Derby’s Apprenticeship Business Development Manager, and the two programme leaders.
They knew what we wanted, which was to provide the apprentices with a good balance of university and working life.”
They knew what we wanted, which was to provide the apprentices with a good balance of university and working life.
When asked about the benefits of apprenticeships specifically, Darren says: “From a development perspective, it allows us to pinpoint skills and capabilities gaps.
It also allows us to bring on fresh talent.
Having apprentices within a team can really motivate that team.
Apprenticeships are fundamental to how we shape our business over the next five to ten years.”
Many of E.ON’s apprentices were only in their first year of study when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the UK.
This meant that the delivery of the programmes had to be quickly adapted.
Darren describes his experience of working with Derby though this period:
“We asked all our apprenticeship providers to move to remote learning.
Derby immediately reacted to that and put in place remote work and support quite quickly; they also communicated it really well to our apprentices.
I couldn’t have been more pleased with the way they responded.”

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/about/annual-impact-report:
Our ambition to be a University for Industry is growing and in the last 12 months, we have strengthened our existing partnerships with sector-leading businesses and organisations and forged new partnerships with inspiring brands to not only make our mark in the region, but around the world.
Research
Academic Excellence
Environment and Sustainability
University Experience
Student Success
Business Engagement
A Civic University
Financial Accounts
We have created a range of new Joint Honours courses including Business, English, History, Psychology and Artificial Intelligence, to help students become highly versatile and adaptable workers.
In the latest Ofsted report, our Initial Teacher Education programmes achieved ‘Outstanding’ which is the highest possible award.
This rating is based on the quality of our education and training, leadership and management and overall effectiveness of our courses.
In recognition of our outstanding student experience and student outcomes, we were awarded Gold, the highest possible rating, in the prestigious Teaching Excellence Framework 2023.
Demand for degree apprenticeships is on the rise and the University was awarded to develop new programmes that will help increase widening participation and address the skills gaps in vital sectors.
Our halls of residence have scooped up the coveted prize of Best University Housing for the second year running in the Global Student Living Awards 2023, as well as Best Environmental Management for our commitment to sustainable living.
A state-of-the-art facility for Computing students has opened up inside the University’s Enterprise Centre as part of a regional collaboration with Derby College Group and Loughborough College.
Our Annual Impact Report 2022/23 is also available to view online.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/departments/derby-international-business-school/new-building:
Welcome to the future of business, in the very heart of Derby.
We are working to make our vision a reality - a brand new, future-focused Derby International Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence.
Psychology and Business Management  BA (Hons)
Entrepreneurship and Marketing BA (Hons)
Accounting and Finance BSc (Hons)
Economics BA (Hons)
Set to open in 2025, the Cavendish Building is set to feature superb new teaching facilities which will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of highly qualified business leaders.
Planned to be net zero carbon in both its construction process and operational management, the new building forms part of our wider promise to sustainably support entrepreneurial growth and business connectivity in Derby.
As a university, we take the environmental responsibility for our large estate seriously, and this new building aligns with our zero carbon research theme, which aims to reduce the negative effects of climate change and create a better future for the next generation.
In a prime city centre location, the new seven-storey Cavendish Building will also be a focal point for Derby’s business community, providing a place where our talented students and expert academics can network with, learn from, and inspire local business leaders and entrepreneurs.
Start-ups and small businesses will be able to access the expertise and facilities on their doorstep to support and nurture their growth.
It will make a significant contribution to the vision of a vibrant central business district in the city and will support Derby’s plans for growth and regeneration.
Our target is to raise £20 million to build better business, a better society and a better future.
To date, we have raised £1 million from individuals and companies who believe in a Derby International Business School which makes a difference.
Our research is already helping to improve lives and save the planet.
We focus on the issues that matter most to today’s society including zero carbon, long-COVID, pain management, coral reef restoration, climate change and energy science.
Imagine the impact we can have with your help.
Join us to create a better tomorrow where the next generation of game-changers can flourish.
We are proposing the establishment of several Professorial Chairs in areas of critical importance in today’s rapidly changing world.
A funded five-year full-time PhD Studentship will make a substantial and original contribution to knowledge in a specific field to impact an organisation’s performance.
Derby International Business School has become the latest business school to be awarded the Small Business Charter .
This national accolade awarded by the Chartered Association of Business Schools is in recognition of the business school’s high standard of support for small businesses and the local economy, as well as the work it does in developing entrepreneurial skills in students.
Derby International Business School is also a full member of the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD) - a network of business schools and corporations dedicated to enhancing excellence in management education and development globally.
Whether your ambitions lie in accounting, business management, international business, economics and finance, marketing, event management, tourism management or hospitality management, we deliver a quality education where you not only learn about business but also get to do business.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2025/local-businesses-encouraged-to-apply-for-royal-award-by-successful-former-student:
25 June 2025
Businesses across Derby and Derbyshire are being encouraged to put themselves forward for one of the UK’s highest honours, The King’s Awards for Enterprise, as a University of Derby alumnus shares the transformative impact the prestigious recognition had on him.
The King’s Awards for Enterprise are recognised as the highest UK awards which can be bestowed upon a British company.
Upbeat Clean – whose Chief Executive is Derby alumnus Andrew Jackson – became the first organisation in Derbyshire to win the Promoting Opportunity through Social Mobility accolade; a category considered to be the rarest to obtain.
The charity-owned company provides cleaning services to local firms by employing refugee women in Derby, giving them the opportunity to help them rebuild their lives, support their families, get training and contribute to society.
Andrew Jackson studied his undergraduate degree at the University of Derby before completing an MBA at Derby through the apprenticeship route in 2022.
He said:
“I am incredibly proud of the work achieved by Upbeat Clean .
“Before setting up the organisation, we knew that there was huge potential in working with refugee women.
We wanted to give them an opportunity to not only work, but to realise their full potential.
“I’d wholeheartedly encourage others to apply for the King’s Awards.
For us, it has raised our profile and given us the chance to share the good work being done by Upbeat Clean on a national scale.”
Marvin Cooke OBE DL, Professor of Enterprise at the University of Derby and chair of the Derbyshire King’s Awards for Enterprise panel (pictured above), says that winning a King’s Award can have significant benefits not only to the organisation, but on the region, too.
Professor Cooke said:
“The King’s Awards are widely recognised as the most prestigious business accolades in the UK.
“Upbeat Clean is already reaping the benefits which can include increased global recognition, and potential improvements in commercial activity and international trade.
“Derbyshire is rightly seen as a county of innovation and excellence and these awards are a shining example of the incredible business talent that we have on our doorstep.”
Upbeat Clean’s Managing Director, Michael Gladwell, shared the organisation’s story with local businesses during the event, hosted at the University’s Enterprise Centre, which was also attended by Cosy Direct – recipients of the King’s Award for International Trade – Garnalex, Heraeus Electro-Nite UK and David Nieper; Alfreton-based fashion manufacturer that works closely with the University of Derby.
Elizabeth Fothergill, Lord Lieutenant of Derbyshire, also attended the event.
“I am delighted that the brilliant achievements of five Derbyshire companies have been recognised with a King’s Award for Enterprise.
“They all make a remarkable impact across our city and county, enhancing the economy and providing sustainable skilled jobs.”
Find out more about the King's Awards

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2025/dcfc-university-event:
15 April 2025
Ahead of starting university in September, prospective students had the chance to step into the world of professional football during a VIP experience event at Derby County Football Club .
The exclusive event, which took place on Monday 14 April at Pride Park Stadium, gave applicants to the University of Derby the opportunity to get a rare glimpse into the world of professional sport, made possible by the University‘s partnership with the football club.
During the afternoon, students attended a Q&A with a panel of sport business experts hosted by Derby County’s Lead Presenter for Rams TV Owen Bradley and received a private tour of the stadium, including a pitch side and changing room visit.
Students also had the chance to meet Derby County Chief Executive Officer Stephen Pearce, Assistant Head Coach Matt Gardiner, First Team Player Kane Wilson and Head of Lifelong Learning and current Derby student Lauren Asquith.
Aside from networking with industry figures, the event also offered the perfect opportunity to connect with expert academics and current students, while making friends with other applicants ahead of starting at the University of Derby in September.
Dr Andy Hooton , Head of School of Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby and who introduced the event, said:
“It was great to see an amazing turnout at our ‘Afternoon with Derby County’ event.
“It was the perfect way for students interested in joining us in September to be inspired by the wealth of opportunities that being a student at the University of Derby can offer.”
As an industry-connected University, students at Derby are given access to engage with leading global, national and regional brands as part of their degree.
Dr Hooton added:
“Through industry partnerships we give our students an invaluable opportunity to gain real-world experience which prepares them for their exciting careers ahead.
“Industry engagement is a key part of our teaching at Derby and events such as these are the perfect way to demonstrate to our prospective students what this means for them and their future.”
The event is part of a series of exclusive events hosted by the University of Derby throughout the year to give prospective students a taste of life as a Derby student , connect with fellow applicants and showcase the unique partnerships and facilities on offer.
Find out more about upcoming events and courses available to study at the University of Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2025/innovative-rail-project:
14 April 2025
An innovative project exploring the use of hydrogen fuel cell technology in the rail freight industry has the potential to create opportunities within the local supply chain, according to experts.
The University of Derby is working with Clayton Equipment on the Pilot Project, which is funded by the East Midlands Investment Zone (EMIZ).
The project looks at the future propulsion of rail and supporting a move away from using diesel as a source of fuel for ‘shunter wagons’ – freight trains used to manoeuvre goods vehicles.
The feasibility study evaluates the potential for converting a diesel-hybrid shunting locomotive into a zero-emission fuel-cell hybrid system.
As part of the project, Rahim Marjani, a Researcher in Railway Systems Innovation at the University of Derby, has developed a digital twin simulation model to analyse locomotive journeys.
The demonstrator allows journeys to be modelled against different operating scenarios, accounting for parameters including refuelling and stopping.
“Additional solutions are needed as organisations look to move away from diesel to a more carbon efficient source of power.
“Extending the range of zero carbon propulsion options provides future market opportunities, driving demand which in turn creates opportunities for related skills within the local supply chain.
“Fuel cell technology, already proven in cars and passenger trains, offers a highly efficient, zero-emission power source with comparable refuelling times and range to diesel engines.
By adapting this technology to shunting locomotives, the project provides a sustainable solution aligned with the UK’s Net Zero Carbon targets.
“A simulation model will estimate daily energy demands and potential emission reductions while evaluating hydrogen storage capacity and fuel cell performance.”
Although the project’s main focus is to look at propulsion in the context of shunters moving wagons within freight facilities, the researchers believe it has the potential for wider application, and are set to create guidelines for future manufacturing.
“Derby has a rich heritage when it comes to innovation within the rail, and it is an exciting time to be involved in the industry following the announcement that Derby is to be the future headquarters of Great British Railways – the new single public body responsible for running and transforming Britain's railways.
“Our research initiative has the potential to enhance UK exports, stimulate the East Midlands supply chain and drive regional economic growth, with opportunities for workforce expansion and investment in advanced testing facilities.”
The innovative project is supported by East Midlands Combined County Authority and is the first of 15 pilot projects to be supported by the new combined county authority in 2025.
Nottingham City Council Leader, and Portfolio holder for Investment at EMCCA, Cllr Neghat Khan said:
“We are committed to driving innovation and sustainability across the region and this project exemplifies our dedication to fostering cutting-edge research and development that not only addresses environmental challenges but also stimulates local economic growth.
“By supporting initiatives like this, the East Midlands Combined County Authority aims to create a robust ecosystem that enhances the East Midlands' position as a leader in green and advanced manufacturing sectors.
“The collaboration between the University of Derby and Clayton Equipment is a testament to the potential of public-private partnerships in achieving our region's Net Zero Carbon targets and boosting the local supply chain.”
Meanwhile Mark Nolan, Managing Director for Clayton Equipment, said:
“The collaboration with the University of Derby has been of great use to explore the future possibilities of hydrogen propulsion in the industry.
Clayton Equipment prides itself on innovation with our first battery locomotive being manufactured in 1946, and this project will keep our business at the forefront of leading technology.
“Developing and expanding our export markets and ensuring a centre of excellence in Derbyshire for technological development is key, and this success will be reflected in our UK supply chain and filter through to building up the local and national economy.
“We look forward to the continued work between the University of Derby and ourselves in the innovation to bring a cleaner and brighter future in rail technology.”
Zero Carbon is one of the University of Derby’s six Research Themes.
Research in this area has both a strategic purpose - informing international, national, and regional policy - and a tactical one: influencing business support projects as well as urban and environmental sustainability initiatives.
Research at Derby

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2025/innovative-railway-inspection-project-using-ai-gets-underway:
9 January 2025
Funded by Innovate UK, the Knowledge Transfer Partnership will investigate the application of artificial intelligence (AI) to automatically detect cracks in railway tracks while also integrating new AI-based practices.
Leveraging the University of Derby’s expertise in AI along with Sperry Rail’s extensive industry knowledge, this project aims to address critical challenges in railway maintenance.
Dr Alaa AlZoubi , Senior Lecturer in Computer Science at the University of Derby, who is leading the project, said:
“Sperry Rail are world-leaders in rail health solutions.
Our partnership to develop advanced AI for railway surface inspections highlights our commitment to innovation and strong academic-industry collaboration.
“This project offers a unique opportunity to integrate novel AI technologies with a deep understanding of railway inspection needs, driving greater efficiency and intelligence in the industry.
“While existing inspection methods are effective, they often require significant time and labour resources.
By integrating cutting-edge AI models with railway inspection protocols, this initiative will create automated systems capable of data analysis and predictive maintenance, reducing false detections, minimising service disruptions, and extending the lifespan of railway assets.
“It also provides a valuable platform for knowledge exchange and showcases the transformative potential of academia-industry collaboration in developing solutions that advance technology and its real-world applications.”
Data Science is one of the University of Derby’s six Academic Themes .
Research in this area aims to support external organisations such as Sperry Rail in understanding, visualising and enhancing its data-driven decision-making to deliver tangible benefits to partners, society and the economy.
Bobby Gilbert, Senior Director Digital Transformation at Sperry Rail , said:
“I am excited to be working in partnership with the University of Derby.
“By combining our expertise in non-destructive testing for rail flaws with advanced AI developments and the knowledge available through the University, we are well-positioned to accelerate our efforts in improving rail flaw detection.
I am impressed by the calibre of the University research team, who significantly enhance the strength of our data science team.
“I believe we will see our existing AI technology greatly enhanced by developing new AI in the area of data fusion.”
The Sperry Rail project follows a successful initiative between the University and Derby-based Bloc Digital in Deep Learning for Engineering Inspection (DL4EI) which aims to revolutionise the inspection process within the road and rail industries by providing real-time data on object conditions from photographs gathered on a mobile phone.
Find out more about our research

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2024/derby-alumni-given-exclusive-preview-of-new-business-school-site-ahead-of-opening-:
12 December 2024
Influential business leaders from Derby and Derbyshire were granted an exclusive preview of The Cavendish Building, which is set to be the home of Derby Business School in 2025.
The special guests – all University of Derby alumni – were invited to tour the new £75 million Business School building, currently being built in the heart of the city centre.
During the visit they heard about plans for the new building from the University Chancellor William Cavendish, Earl of Burlington, how it will be a focal point for the business community, and further strengthen the University’s links with industry.
The seven-storey building will also provide a space for Derby’s business researchers and academics to engage with businesses from across the region and around the world.
Alumni Andrew Jackson is the chief executive of Upbeat Communities ; a charity working with refugees in Derby.
He studied his undergraduate degree at Derby, before completing an MBA at Derby through the apprenticeship route in 2022.
“The University is fantastic and is making a significant civic impact in the city.
“It’s great to see the development of The Cavendish Building.
The building itself is innovative, and it is so important that students will be able to learn in the city centre alongside businesses.”
Adaku Nzor, who also attended the event, studied International Business and Human Resources Management at the University of Derby.
“My experience at Derby was fantastic.
The excellence and service delivery was top-notch.
I’d recommend the University to anyone.
The technology is of the highest level and the environment for teaching is superb.
“I live in Derby, and I feel a sense of pride every time I see The Cavendish Building.
The new building will really help to put the University of Derby on the map.”
Matthew Crawford is the leader of Embark Federation ; a trust of 23 primary and secondary schools across Derbyshire.
He graduated in 1998 after studying for a Bachelor of Education.
“I had a wonderful experience over the three years I studied at the University of Derby.
Particularly I had great support in what was a challenging time during my second year, and the University were well ahead with the care I received to help me complete my degree.
“I am excited for the opening of The Cavendish Building.
It is fantastic to see the University having a presence in the heart of the city and I’m looking forward to seeing how the Derby Business School will partner up with local businesses, and to see how Embark Federation can continue its partnership with the University of Derby in the future.”
Dr Nicola Lynch , Head of Derby Business School at the University of Derby, added:
“This is such an exciting time for the University as we prepare to open The Cavendish Building, so we were delighted to be able to invite our inspirational alumni to have an exclusive preview of the School’s new home.
“The new building will be such an inspiring place of study for future generations of business talent, providing an environment for students, academics and industry partners to collaborate, innovate and address environmental, social and governance challenges, positively impacting society at a regional, national and global level.
“This event has been a fantastic opportunity to share our vision with our alumni and we hope to further strengthen our relationships with those who are having an impact on business in the city and beyond.”
Members of the University of Derby alumni receive career help for up to three years after graduation and, for those who are looking to start or grow their own business, there is enterprise support such as 1:1 coaching and coworking available.
If you are a University of Derby alumni who has lost touch with the University and would like to reconnect, email alumni@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/business-services-charter:
This charter sets out our commitment to ensuring a professional business service for our engagement with external organisations and sets out the quality of service you can expect from us when you contact us with an enquiry.
If at any time you feel we have not met the standards you would expect, please let us know as soon as possible so that we can instigate our Commercial Complaints Process and we can improve our service.
For further information and detail, please contact our Business Gateway team at businessgateway@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/services:
We have a range of services to support you during your time with us, from our Admissions team, who will help you find the course that's right for you, to our Careers and Employment Service team, who will assist and guide you for up to three years after you graduate.
And so much more.
The Careers and Employment Service is proud to support all of our students on their journey towards their future career.
Access our library services.
Our Student Centres are here to help you with a wide range of information, advice and guidance to support you through your studies and time with us.
If you're in any doubt about where you should go to...
The technical service team is part of the University of Derby's professional services.
Our technicians are highly skilled, well qualified and specialists in their areas offering support directly to un...
The Centre for Academic Enhancement and Quality Assurance provides information, advice and support on external and internal requirements of quality procedures, and activities leading to qual...
When you graduate from the University of Derby, you become a member of our global Alumni community.
Congratulations!
On our site, students can make a payment to the University, suppliers can find out more about our procurement policies and proceedures and relevant parties can obtain copies of our annual accounts and...
Digital Solutions and Services is an industry-award-winning department that provides solutions, support and maintenance to digital systems at the University of Derby.
We provide information technology...
The Student Engagement and Enhancement (SE & E) team provides evidence-based insight to enhance existing practices and facilitate positive change for students and the University.
Our mission ...
The University of Derby has four colleges, each of which is divided into a number of departments or schools.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/services/admissions:
At the University of Derby we offer a wide range of courses and your application will be managed by an admissions team who can provide support and advice to our applicants specifically for the course that they are applying for.
Apply for a course Admissions policies Application guide CAS and visa Information
If you have any questions about your application please contact the Admissions Team for your course:
This team are responsible for managing the admissions for courses which are studied on the campus sites for UK and EU applicants.
This team are responsible for managing the admissions for courses which are studied online.
This team are responsible for managing the admissions of all PhD and MPhil Research degrees.
This team are responsible for managing the admissions for LBR funded places on courses for Health professionals.
Buxton & Leek College provides our Further Education provision.
There are two teams responsible for admissions as follows:
This team are responsible for managing the admissions for the Access to HE courses and F oundation Pathways Programme .
This team are responsible for managing the admissions for all other FE courses.
This team are responsible for admissions to the Mineral Products courses.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni/stay-connected:
A great way to stay connected with us is through our monthly alumni newsletter which will inform you about the latest university news, events, benefits, opportunities and stories from our alumni, students and staff.
You are automatically subscribed to our newsletter the moment you graduate.
You can update your details if you are not already receiving the newsletter, or need to change your contact details.
We would love to hear about your career successes.
Share your success story
Follow us via our social networks to keep up-to-date with the latest news, professional development opportunities, events and more:
Facebook X LinkedIn
Alumni Relation Team University of Derby Derby DE22 1GB Tel: 01332 591044 Email: alumni@derby.ac.uk
Gogglebox star and education expert Baasit Siddiqui has launched a series of videos to help young people as they prepare for university.
A leading Derby child protection expert and the founder of a charity supporting vulnerable women are among those receiving honorary degrees from the University of Derby later this month.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni/benefits:
Once you have successfully completed your studies at the University of Derby, the support you receive from us doesn’t stop.
As a member of our University of Derby Alumni community, you have access to a range of exclusive benefits that can develop your career - and help you make the most of your leisure time.
To help you extend your knowledge, we have exclusive discounts on offer to study at postgraduate level.
Plus, there’s a wide range of flexible work-based study options to consider too.
If you have been using PebblePad during your course, you are entitled to a free Personal Pebble+ Alumni Account .
This can contain everything you had in your University Asset Store as well as providing you with additional space to carry on using for personal and professional development.
Please follow the instructions on how to activate your alumni account .
This account must be activated within 3 months of your programme being formally completed but will continue to be free for as long as the University of Derby holds a license for PebblePad.
To continue your professional and career development, check out our range of flexible work-based learning solutions and professional development online courses (including free online courses known as MOOCs - Massive Open Online Courses)
Join the University of Derby library for free.
The University of Derby's strategic partner, Marketing Derby , invites alumni who are based in London, either living or working and have strong ties to Derby and Derbyshire, to join the London Chapter of the Derby Ambassadors Club.
The aim of the Club is to create a network that will help raise the profile of Derby and Derbyshire to attract investment into the city and county.
There is no cost to joining the Derby Ambassadors Club and benefits include:
Contact the University of Derby’s Development and Alumni Relations Office for more details on how to be involved with this exciting network alumni@derby.ac.uk .
The Derby Ambassadors Club is wholly managed by Marketing Derby, a third-party organisation.
Alumni who graduated within the last three years can benefit from enterprise support, including 1-1 coaching, coworking and funding to support graduates to start and grow their own business.
More information is available through our Enterprise Support .
There are many ways the University can support your career development, including helping you to develop your business ideas including accessing funding to help it grow.
You've worked hard to get your degree at the University of Derby, you are moving on to the next stage of your career and now we want to help you relax and enjoy yourself.
We have exclusive sports and leisure offers for our Alumni, including discounted membership for our Sports Centre .
University of Derby clothing
Would you like to update or replace your University of Derby hoodie?
Alumni can claim a 10% discount on their purchases by entering 'alumni10' at the checkout in the Union of Students online shop .
Associate Membership
Maintain your team connections with this membership, it gives our alumni continued access to the Union of Students sports clubs and societies beyond graduation.
Membership costs:
*Sports or Society membership fees are applicable on top of this membership.
Contact the Union of Students at info@derbyunion.co.uk to find out more.
Totum cards can only be bought by registered students.
However, final-year students are eligible to buy a three-year card.
So, to continue benefiting from Totum discount, we recommend all final-year students buy one before they complete their course.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/employability/three-year-promise:
For three years after completing your course you are entitled to comprehensive support and guidance from the Careers and Employment Service.
Whether you need help with job searching, career planning, CV tailoring, preparation for interviews, or any other career guidance, you’ll receive the same level of support as a current University of Derby student.
You will have full access to the University’s Careers and Employment Service including:
Visit the Careers and Employment Service website and register as a graduate to access the support available.
Having problems with your graduate login?
Use our checklist to restore your account.
For more information, contact the team on careers@derby.ac.uk
The Graduate Outcomes survey is crucial in helping us to evaluate and promote our courses, in turn assisting current and future University of Derby students to make informed choices.
As a member of our global University of Derby Alumni community, you'll have access to a fantastic range of benefits, support and opportunities.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/employability/graduate-outcomes:
The Graduate Outcomes survey is the UK’s biggest annual national survey which gathers information about the activities and viewpoints of graduates 15 months after they’ve finished their studies.
All graduates will be asked to take part in the survey, to help current and future students gain an insight into career destinations and development.
Your anonymised responses will also help University of Derby to evaluate and promote our courses.
It will help future students make informed decisions , as the anonymised data is used for websites such as Discover Uni.
It allows you to have your say about what graduate success means to you.
Graduate Outcomes is of national significance, as it allows policy makers, charities, journalists, researchers and others to understand the higher education sector and the state of the graduate labour market.
The Graduate Outcomes survey is delivered by HESA (Higher Education Statistics Agency) on behalf of all higher education providers.
You can complete the survey on most devices, and it only takes around 10 minutes.
You’ll be contacted by either:
The University of Derby will supply the contact details they hold for you to HESA for the sole purpose of conducting the Graduate Outcomes survey.
We are therefore required to hold accurate contact details for you including a personal email address, at least one telephone number and a postal address.
If your contact details have changed, please let us know to ensure your graduate voice is heard.
You can update your details by filling in this form or by emailing us at GraduateOutcomes@derby.ac.uk
You will be contacted to complete the Graduate Outcomes survey approximately 15 months after you complete your course (as shown in the table below).
All responses will be anonymised; full details on how your data will be processed including who will receive it and how it will be used can be found here: Graduate Outcomes Privacy Information
You can view some of the sector-wide statistics on HESA’s Graduate Outcomes Survey Results webpage.
Don’t forget about our three-year promise to you!
For three years after you graduate you have full access to the University’s Careers and Employment Service.
If you have any questions or queries regarding the Graduate Outcomes survey please don't hesitate to contact the Graduate Outcomes Team at graduateoutcomes@derby.ac.uk
For information specific to the survey including the kind of questions you may be asked, please visit the official Graduate Outcomes website .
View Video video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/services/its/it-services-for-alumni:
Discover information about what happens to your university account once you have completed your studies.
Explore our full alumni services and benefits .
Your university account, (UDo, Blackboard Learn, your login, Unimail, library services, etc.) remains for 90 days after your programme is formally completed.
This will be 90 days from the date when your award is ratified by the University.
This is not the same as the date when your award was confirmed to you by email, or the date of your graduation ceremony, and is unlikely to be the same date as when you finish your programme.
Specific information will be sent to you via your Unimail and personal email addresses once this has happened and will confirm the exact date when your account will close.
Due to security and legal reasons your account will be closed at the end of the 90 days.
After closure, it is not possible to reopen your University resources, accounts or emails.
This includes access to any of your academic work.
If you require access to your academic results and/or transcripts, please contact Student Hub: studenthub@derby.ac.uk, they can help you reset your profile so that you can retrieve these details through the HEAR (Higher Education Achievement Record).
If you are continuing your studies with us, your account will stay open.
Please note, there are some occasions where a new/different account will be needed, for example, if you’ve discontinued from a previous course or are awaiting entry requirements.
To make sure you have everything you need, we strongly recommend that you complete the following steps at the end of your course.
It is really important that you transfer any files or emails before your account expires or when you finish a course.
We are unable to recover them for you once you have completed.
Files include any assignments, projects, videos, audio and image files saved on a university computer.
These can be on Blackboard Learn or on your university storage space (U drive and OneDrive).
Your files can be saved on an online storage platform (such as OneDrive, Google Drive, DropBox etc.) linked to a non-University account or a storage device (external hard drive or USB stick).
You should forward or transfer any emails you want to keep to a non-university/different email account before your account expires.
Remember to update any accounts linked with your Unimail.
Please note that if you are moving on to further study on a new course with us within 90 days, your IT account will not be deactivated, and you will be able to continue using it.
Your current Blackboard Learn will update to your new programme.
Please make sure you download any relevant materials that you wish to keep for future reference (submissions, feedback, lecture slides).
If you are studying for 5 years or more, the content is removed after 4 years.
Please use the guidance below about specific services.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni/replacement-documents:
Below are the services and documents we can provide to assist in verifying your Higher Education achievements.
We advise you to take a look at each section briefly to see which document is the most suitable for you .
If you require any further information , please contact the team at graduation@derby.ac.uk
You can order replacement documents and certificates here:
If your studies with us date from between 1993 and 1997 you'll need to order an Archive search prior to placing an order for any of the documents below:
You'll need to obtain a reference number by emailing studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk
Order your Archive search
Information included:
Please note charges apply - courier delivery is available at extra charge.
Order an academic transcript
Order a letter of confirmation
Please note charges apply.
Courier delivery is available at extra charge.
Order replacement certificates
Certain professional courses may be studied at the University's campuses but the awarding body is NOT the University of Derby, therefore we can't offer replacement documentation.
In addition, in the 1990s we offered some university-level courses ratified by institutions other than ourselves.
In these circumstances, you'd need to apply to the awarding university for a replacement certificate.
If in any doubt, please contact studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk prior to ordering.
A digitally certified, official copy of your University of Derby certificate using our current format.
This is stored securely on an online portal and is yours to access, download, print, or email as you choose.
You can share your document with potential employers, governments, education providers and other third parties as a way of quickly and easily verifying your award.
For more information please visit Digitary Core .
Please note:
Order your Digital Certificate
You can order courier delivery (tracked and signed for) for any of the above documents (academic transcript, letter of confirmation and certificate) at an additional charge.
If you are ordering more than one document in one order (for example if you've ordered a certificate and transcript) then you only need to pay one courier charge (provided the documents are being sent to the same address).
You'll need a reference number to order a courier (this is just so we can be sure your documents are ready to go) which you can obtain by emailing studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk .
All requests to verify information regarding current students, leavers and graduates are now processed through the Higher Education Degree Datacheck (HEDD).
Please submit your requests to: www.hedd.ac.uk .
A Hedd verification confirms the candidate's name, qualification type, course name, year of award, classification obtained and dates of attendance.
Please visit www.hedd.ac.uk to register.
There is a small charge for each enquiry and you must provide the written consent of the individual.
To prevent delays, please enter the candidate's details as they appear on their degree certificate.
Enquiries are checked and completed by the University's registry team.
The due date will be listed on your enquiry.
If you require further assistance, please email heddhelp@prospects.ac.uk .
Once you have received confirmation of an award made to you by the relevant assessment board we will produce documentation to support the award.
Usually, this is a certificate and a transcript.
Most students will receive a digital transcript, called a HEAR (Higher Education Achievement Report) , within eight weeks of confirmation of the award.
HEARs are issued for Masters, Undergraduate Degrees, Foundation Degrees, Advanced Diplomas and HND qualifications.
Other awards will receive a hard copy academic transcript.
If you are unsure how to access your HEAR please watch the online video.
If the level of award is eligible for invitation to our awards ceremonies then certificates will be retained for presentation at our ceremonies.
Find out more on our graduation pages .
If you have a need to have your certificate issued early then please email studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk .
You will be asked to provide evidence of your need.
Circumstances considered include visa requirements, applications for further study, employment opportunities or any other circumstance where it is clearly stated that only the sight of an original certificate will suffice.
If you’ve any queries about documentation to support an award made to you, please contact us at studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk .
Graduates awarded a Masters, Undergraduate Degree, Foundation Degree, Advanced Diploma or HND will be issued with an electronic Higher Education Achievement Record (HEAR).
The document is delivered electronically and the system allows graduates to grant access to any relevant parties (eg potential employers or sponsors) to view this secure, authenticated document and confirm the qualification achieved, etc.
Access your Higher Education Achievement Record
If you have any queries regarding the HEAR, please contact graduation@derby.ac.uk
The HEAR replaces the Diploma Supplement which was previously supplied by the University and consisted of a statement of achievement (transcript of grades and classification), placement details, any study abroad, the programme learning outcomes, grading scheme etc.
The HEAR includes this information and adds the student's extra-curricular engagements that go beyond the programme and grades detail, to provide an extended picture of the individual, which may aid employability.
The HEAR records engagement with activities outside the academic curriculum which contribute to the life of the University and the wider community.
Only data verified or monitored by the University or by the Students’ Union is published in the HEAR.
Students may also have engaged in other activities outside the University which may have contributed to their personal and professional development but these will be recorded elsewhere, eg CV or e-portfolio.
Section 6.1 of the HEAR includes:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni/graduates:
From designing the iconic poppies display at the Tower of London to appearing on Dragons' Den, our alumni have achieved great things following their studies .
Stay connected with us and share your success story to inspire our current and prospective students.
You can also keep in touch with us via our alumni newsletter.
Baasit uses his platform to focus on his passion for education.
Real-world experience, an active mentorship and host of opportunities have helped Samantha O'Neill secure her first graduate role.
Danielle Keeling chose our Business Management course because it was accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
She is now on the CMI East Midlands Regional Board.
After one of our academic leads helped to find the perfect course for him, Nick's now applying his newfound knowledge to take his career to the next level.
Sarah Jones loved our Event Management course so much that, after she graduated with a first, she got a job with us helping our current students.
Tyra Johl achieved more than she thought was possible whilst juggling commitments and major life changes.
Ikra Yasin applied the skills that she learnt on our Law LLB course to become, at 22, the youngest councillor in East Anglia.
Event Management graduate Kristina Petrovicova is excelling in her graduate role as a Business Designer where she is helping companies to understand their customers and improve their services.
Fraser Williamson landed a managerial role at The Football Association after completing our BA (Hons) Business Management degree and gaining experience to apply his skills in the workplace.
International Hospitality Management graduate Elsje Hugo believes that the reputation of our University played a big role in landing her dream job at a prestigious wine firm in South Africa.
From Switzerland, Gabrielle Davies used her extensive experience to pursue an online Business and Management BSc with us.
Using the skills acquired from our Business Studies course, graduate Ed Hollands won a £30,000 investment from the BBC's Dragon's Den TV show.
Online student Thobekile excelled in her studies, despite the challenges that she faced, and now wants to make a difference in addressing cultural problems.
Practicing criminal barrister and TV crime adviser, Jeanette Ashmole, discovered her passion for law after joining the police force, but faced numerous challenges on her way to success.
After securing a graduate role from taking part in an industry project, Tamara won a thesis prize for her research that’s driving forward the future of visitor experiences.
Dhana, Finance Director of Nando’s Botswana, has two master’s degrees from the University of Derby: a Master of Business Administration (MBA) and a Master of Science in Strategic Management (MSc).
Rumannah Akhtar enjoyed her studies so much so that, upon completing her MSc Marketing Management degree, she decided to stay as a Strategic Partnerships and Business Engagement Officer.
The founder of the successful clothing brand Balling attributes much of his entrepreneurial success to the skills and experiences he gained while studying Business Management.
During her time at the University of Derby, Natalia actively engaged in various projects and activities that contributed to her personal and professional development.
This dream was realised when she started studying International Relations and Diplomacy at the University of Derby
Dr Paul Wabike, has applied the skills he acquired on the MSc Strategic Management course to make education more accessible
Geoffrey Etule, acquired key skills through his Human Resource Management and European Studies degree, giving him the confidence to pursue his dreams of promoting the importance of mental health.
Diana Magallano, HR Executive at Ebrahim Khalil Kanoo, joined the University of Derby as an international student studying Management Accounting.
During her studies, Diana developed her confidenc...
Now a Paralegal at the University of Derby, Melissa began her law journey by studying Law LLB at the University.
Mollie Selby, Aspirant Assistant Principal and Community Organisation Chair, studied International Relations, Diplomacy and Global Development at the University of Derby, where she acquired key s...
Now Senior Manager of Digital Implementation at global creative tech company Monotype, James’s career journey reflects a deep commitment to growth - both personal and professional.
Fine Art graduate Paul Cummins created a ceramic poppy display which was chosen to mark the centenary of the start of the First World War at the Tower of London.
As a mature student, Rebecca Cuff was looking for the chance to explore new ways of working in art.
She found it in our BA (Hons) Fine Art.
After meeting whilst at university, Photography graduates Dariusz Szwed and Rachel Powell founded commercial photography company, Studio No 74.
After first working for the charity Place2Be as one of her placements whilst studying, Kelly Truscott jumped at the chance to continue working with them following her graduation.
Shaun joined the University as an aspiring journalist and went on to become Deputy Head of News and Duputy Official Spokesperson for the Prime Minister.
Film Production graduate, Omar Soomro, has been working on a number of exciting projects, including Netflix's acclaimed series Sex Education.
Abbie Sunter is a ceramicist who developed her business after graduating from the University of Derby with a BA (Hons) in Fine Art.
During the final stages of her MA in Dance Movement Psychotherapy, Aishwarya enrolled on the 'Be the Boss' programme which led to her establishing and growing her own business, Move for Wellbeing.
Diana Pinhao left Porto, Portugal, at 18 to pursue a BA (Hons) Fine Art degree at the University of Derby and has since had her work featured in a number of exciting exhibitions.
Jon is a University of Derby alumnus and founder and owner of Hot House Music Schools.
After gaining a first class honours in her Journalism degree, Emily Robertson landed a full-time job working for one of Nottingham's top public relations companies, Eden PR.
From dedicated lecturers to the DRIVEN internship program, explore how Tom's story unfolds with meaningful projects benefiting the community.
Alexey graduated BA (Hons) Degree in Fashion Design and officially launched his own business 'Alexey Morozov' in 2019.
Nick’s journey started with a degree in Business and Economics, and it was actually through helping a friend with their course work that he discovered his passion for creativity, fashion and design.
Award-winning speaker, bestselling author and world-renowned thinker Richard Gerver is also the chair of our Alumni and Membership Advisory Board.
Since graduating in 2012, Erika Horne now runs her own business, CAD for Fashion, which specialises in CAD training and tuition for the fashion and textiles industry.
Hannah Fox began her journey at the University in 1992 and now leads major projects as the Director of Projects and Programmes at Derby Museum Trust.
Since completing our Project Design course, Sam is living out his childhood dream as a Design Manager for one of the biggest toy companies in the world – LEGO.
After graduation, David Hambling set up The Joy of Pages, a publishing services company based in Derbyshire, with the help of our Be The Boss programme.
Having graduated in 2019, Ryan secured a role at Two Circles, a digital data-driven sports agency.
Journalist, presenter, editor and author, Elle Farrell-Kingsley graduated in 2020 after studying Liberal Arts.
Having first studied American Studies at the University of Derby, Head of Health, Safety and Wellbeing, Adam Gomes is continuing his education by studying an online masters.
Michelle Darlow studied BA Hons Fashion Studies at the University of Derby.
Her story is a testament to resilience, adaptability, and the power of leveraging opportunities to build a successful career...
George Papakyritsis studied our accredited online Psychology BSc (Hons) to take the first step towards achieving his goal of becoming a practising therapist.
Forensic Psychology graduate Kanish Jones is applying the skills acquired on her course to make a difference at HMP Whatton.
Amanda decided to move her career in a different direction and pursue her passions by studying our Psychology MSc.
Nursing graduate Kate Henry is using her creativity to inspire the next generation of nurses.
Studying online provided Kelly Davies with a pathway to exceed beyond her expectations and pursue a Psychology BSc.
Graduate Danielle Gunter combined her skills and passions to found the Social-ISE Project, providing social media marketing for charities, not-for-profits and social entrepreneurs.
After receiving her own breast cancer diagnosis during her second year of study, Fiona decided to change the direction of her career to investigate how cancer treatment can affect patients.
After discovering her interest in psychology whilst working in a mental health unit in New Zealand, Ann-Marie decided to pursue her degree online with us.
Shannon knew that she wanted to work with children, but she didn’t know which direction to take.
After initially starting an apprenticeship in a nursery, she quickly discovered it wasn’t the right set
Sabrina is most proud of completing the qualitative research project for her MRes in Psychology, which was positively received and of interest to fellow researchers in the field.
Muhammad is a qualified medical doctor specialising in Public Health Medicine.
As a registered Care Manager with the Care Quality Commission (CQC)
Graduate Molly Kirven has applied her skills to pursue her dream job as a contracts engineer in the geotechnical/construction industry.
Luke Jenkinson's coaching placement during his Sport and Exercise Science BA kickstarted his career to becoming an integral part of the Derby County set-up.
Engineer Charlotte followed her interests in motorsport and now applies the knowledge she gained from her course as a Wheels and Tyres Engineer for Jaguar Land Rover.
Philippa Tredget's Ergonomics qualification is supporting her to make a difference at the British Army.
Ashleigh Whiffin's experience on our Forensic Science course steered her towards her dream career in Entomology.
A placement year in your degree can be a game-changer.
For Celine it led to new skills, an invitation to address a major London conference and to write a chapter in a book on cyber security.
Nicole Yeomans is making an impact and encouraging more businesses to be sustainable as a Green Infrastructure and Biodiversity Specialist at global infrastructure giant AECOM.
Recent graduate, Kallum Booth, secured a role as a graduate Civil Engineer at AtkinsRealis, where he uses the skills and experience that he gained whilst studying BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering.
Victoria Riley, Client Services Director at PKF Smith Cooper Systems, was interested in pursuing a degree in Mathematical Studies as she was attracted by the variety of the programme.
Ross Gilmour is a lighting technician who works on live events such as music festivals, concerts and tours.
To prepare for his career, Ross studied Sound, Light and Live Event Engineering.
Thomas is a Chartered Engineer and aims to guide SMEs to make strategic, energy-efficient investments.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-reunions:
We hold a wide range of lectures and events throughout the year which are open to alumni and members of the public.
Upcoming events
If you’re looking to organise a reunion with your university friends, we’ve put some useful information together that we hope will inspire you to get started!
Whether you graduated last year or 40 years ago, you are part of the University of Derby global alumni community.
A reunion is a perfect excuse to come back to campus, meet up with your university friends and reminisce about the moments you spent together.
If you would like to come back to campus to reflect on your time at Derby, we can facilitate this.
Please contact us at alumni@derby.ac.uk for more information.
Take a look at some of our previous reunion pictures.
Think about the type and style of event you would like to have.
Informal or formal?
Networking or quiz?
A visit to campus or a night out in Derby?
Friendship group or society?
In-person or virtual?
When would you like to hold your event?
Would you like it to coincide with an anniversary or memorable date such as when you graduated or started university?
If you want to hold your event on campus, consider dates outside of the semester.
For more formal events we suggest you start the planning around twelve months in advance, with a shorter timeframe needed for informal events.
Try to give guests as much notice as possible to maximise attendance, perhaps send a ‘Save the Date’ notice while you’re working out the details.
What type of venue would you like for your event?
Would it be suitable for the numbers and needs of the alumni planning to attend?
If you want to visit or hold your event on campus, the Alumni Relations team can help you to book a venue.
Here are some options to consider where our alumni are offered an exclusive discount.
You don’t have to do this on your own.
The other alumni attending can help plan and promote the event to their alumni networks.
Who are you looking to invite to the reunion?
Will it be everyone from your year group or the people you were friends with?
Will partners and children also be invited?
Will it be sports or society members you were involved with?
Halls or private residence friends?
The organiser will be responsible for sourcing, inviting and managing the responses from guests.
The Alumni Relations team can help promote your event through our  and social media channels to encourage attendance.
It’s always advisable to get attendees to book their place in advance so you can manage and flex your plans depending on the number of attendees.
Social media is one of the best ways to promote and keep alumni updated with your plans.
We can support this via our dedicated alumni social media channels.
Perhaps consider setting up a Facebook event, LinkedIn community or WhatsApp group so those interested in attending can find out more.
You can ask others who are helping you to organise or plan to attend the event to reach out to their networks too.
Make sure you take photos during your reunion and tag our alumni feeds in so we can share, like and comment.
Facebook Twitter
It’s always best to give guests plenty of notice and a specific date to respond by.
When planning larger, more formal events, Eventbrite is a useful online tool which is simple to set up and free to use.
It is also useful for managing bookings too.
A Facebook event is also a great way to help build momentum.
Don’t forget to include whether partners or children are invited.
If providing catering, you might need to ask about dietary needs and access needs to make the event as enjoyable as possible for all guests.
Your venue should be able to guide you more with this.
Will there be a cost for guests to attend?
If so, make sure the ticket price covers the cost of the event for each person.
Consider whether you need a deposit for the venue or catering too.
Commemorate, support and remember your time at Derby with our alumni merchandise and celebratory gifts.
All university branded merchandise is available via our online shop .
We can also support your reunion event on the day with our branded alumni banners and marketing collateral.
Contact us at alumni@derby.ac.uk for more information.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni/support-donate:
At the University of Derby, everything we do is driven by delivering excellence and opportunities for our students, our staff, and our region.
We are proud to welcome 30,000 staff and students from over 140 countries and from all walks of life, and we have 150,000 alumni making a difference around the world.
Above and beyond achieving qualifications, we believe that studying at the University of Derby is truly transformative for our students thanks to the diverse opportunities they explore and the meaningful connections they make while they're with us.
For our students and graduates, we are committed to ensuring that their time at the University of Derby opens the door to endless opportunities which will support them throughout their lives.
That's why we ask you: what doors can you open for our university community?
Whether it's by making a donation, leaving a gift in your will or volunteering your time and experience, you can help to transform the lives of our students and further our vital research which is having a global impact.
Large or small, your gift can make a difference.
Donations can be used to support initiatives across the University, from scholarships and bursaries, student prizes and enterprise activities to research, learning resources and campus facilities.
You can choose for your donation to go to an area of the University’s work you wish to support or you can leave an unrestricted gift, which allows us maximum flexibility when designating its use.
If you would like to make a one-off or regular donation, please complete the gift pledge form and then make your donation in either of the following ways:
To make your donation by bank transfer , please contact the Development team by emailing development@derby.ac.uk or calling +44 (0)1332 592687.
To make your donation by cheque , make the cheque payable to 'University of Derby', mark it with 'Donation' on the reverse and send to:
Development - External Relations University of Derby Kedleston Road Derby DE22 1GB
Including a gift in your will to the University of Derby is a simple way to leave a lasting legacy and open doors for the next generation.
Making a will is an important and personal process, and we would always advise that you do so in consultation with your solicitor.
They will ensure your intentions are clearly expressed and legally valid, and will be able to advise you on any tax benefits in relation to your gift.
We can provide suggested wording to ensure your gift, once received, can be used in exactly the way you intend.
If you are happy to share your intentions, we would love the chance to discuss your gift with you and help to see that it is used in exactly the way you would like.
Simply complete a legacy gift pledge form to let us know.
Any legacy gift will be treated with the utmost confidence, and any information you give to us will not involve you in a binding commitment.
Letting us know your intentions will also mean we can involve you in the life of the University, share with you the impact your gift will have and thank you for making such a generous choice.
If you are interested in finding out more, or would like to discuss leaving a gift in your will to the University of Derby, please get in touch with the Development team by emailing development@derby.ac.uk or calling +44 (0)1332 592687.
We would love to hear from you.
Volunteering is a great way to stay connected with the University of Derby and give back to the next generation by sharing your skills and experience.
Whether it’s mentoring a student, delivering a masterclass or guest lecture, or sharing your university experience, you can make a huge difference to our community by getting involved and helping to inspire our current students and recent graduates.
If you are interested in getting involved, please contact the Development team by emailing development@derby.ac.uk or calling +44 (0)1332 592687.
See how donations have unlocked opportunities for our students and research:
A scholarship for MSc Biomedical Science, created and supported by donors
Supporting students studying at postgraduate level within the College of Arts, Humanities and Education
If you are interested in supporting the University of Derby or would like to find out more, please contact our Development team.
Call us on: +44 (0)1332 592687
Email us at: development@derby.ac.uk .
The University of Derby has charitable status and is delighted to be a Civic University .
We are registered with the Fundraising Regulator and follow the Code of Fundraising Practice .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni/africa-alumni-association:
Our Africa Alumni Association is a great way to socialise, meet new people and network to support your career.
Through the Association, r ecent graduates can benefit from the expertise of experienced alumni, who can assist them with navigating Africa's competitive job market.
Additionally, alumni can also support prospective students by sharing their university experiences and offering advice with university applications.
Dhana Ramasamy, Finance Director of Nando's, is the Africa Alumni Fellow.
Dhana achieved he r Master of Business Administration (MBA) and Strategic Management MSc from the University of Derby.
With over 18 years of experience in the retail sector, she is a member of Nando’s Botswana Executive Committee and is passionate about community development, diversity and inclusion in the workplace.
She is currently an Executive Secretary for the Botswana Tamil Cultural Association, an Executive Member of the CIMA Botswana Branch and a Treasurer for the Botswana Accountancy College (BAC) Alumni Association and the Woman and Sport Association of Botswana (WASBO).
Find out more about Dhana's journey
I am excited to support the University of Derby's alumni community in Africa by sharing my career journey and supporting the delivery of engagement opportunities and other initiatives with my fellow alumni.
As part of our new Africa Alumni Association, we expect to share details of future events and activities soon.
Friday 29 November, 18:30-20:00,  Avani Gaborone Resort & Casino, Chuma Drive, Botswana
Find out more about Dhana's career from the University of Derby to becoming the Finance Director of Nando's in Botswana.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/alumni/india-alumni-association:
The India Alumni Association offers a fantastic opportunity to connect and network.
Join a vibrant network of alumni across India, united by shared experiences and aspirations.
Whether you're seeking to reconnect with old friends, expand your professional circle, or support the next generation of students, our India Alumni Association offers a dynamic platform to stay connected, share insights, and celebrate our collective achievements.
Recent graduates can gain valuable insights from experienced alumni, helping them navigate India’s competitive job market.
Additionally, alumni can support prospective students by sharing their university experiences and guiding them through the application process.
If you're based in India and eager to help shape the India Alumni Association, we'd love to hear from you.
Complete this expression of interest form and the team will get back to you with more information about this exciting opportunity

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/services/learning-and-teaching:
We have a strong reputation for teaching excellence at the University of Derby and we have established our Digital Learning and Pedagogic Practice teams to ensure that we maintain this high standard and provide our students with the best-possible education.
We aim to collaborate with colleagues to ensure students experience excellence in teaching, research and scholarship.
"At the University of Derby we have always taken great pride in our approach to teaching and learning,” says Vice-Chancellor Kathryn Mitchell.
“What we teach and the way we teach it is designed to ensure all our students benefit from academic challenge, outstanding facilities and relevant work experience opportunities which ensure upon graduating they are best placed to realise their goals and aspirations.
“We are ambitious, not only in terms of what we want to achieve as a University, but what we want our graduates of the future to achieve, be it locally, nationally or globally.
A symposium at the University of Derby, Tuesday, 22 October 2019, 09.30 - 16.00, Kedleston Road Campus
Resources from the OfS funded Addressing Barriers to Student Success project
Our Undergraduate Research Scholarship Scheme (URSS) gives all second-year students the chance to take part in a funded and supported research project.
PAT offers academic staff the opportunity to work with students on an individual level to foster academic challenge and to ensure that students feel stretched but confident to achieve their goals.
We organise staff development through our new DELTA (Derby Excellence in Learning, Teaching and Assessment) scheme, which has a host of activities to support classroom practice.
This includes helping staff from the University's academic and professional departments gain professional recognition, such as fellowship, through workshops and writing retreats.
And we also provide opportunities to share and engage in research.
The Pedagogic Practice team leads the Undergraduate Research Scholarship Scheme to support students in co-produced research with their academics.
We have developed and published strategies to enhance our student experience and have an Ideas Factory where staff can share innovative ideas and good practice.
We also host the University's annual Learning and Teaching Conference.
We enhance learning and teaching by engaging staff and students in academic debate, discussion and activity generated by creative practice and innovation.
Our blog is where we share news, advice and innovations and promote excellence in all aspects of learning, teaching, assessment and digital practice.
This is where we share innovative ideas and good practice in learning, teaching and assessment.
Meet the Digital Learning and Pedagogic Practice teams and find out how to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/services/quality:
The Centre for Quality Assurance (CQA) works collaboratively with other stakeholders to protect the University’s Degree Awarding Powers and to support quality assurance, compliance and regulatory activities.
We provide information, advice and guidance on external and internal requirements of quality procedures, and activities leading to regulatory compliance and quality enhancement; all aimed at helping to get it right first time.
Together, we provide advice and guidance for Colleges and Professional Services in the implementation of the University's Quality Assurance and Enhancement framework to ensure that the standards of the University’s academic awards are maintained and the quality of the learning opportunities provided to our students are continually monitored and improved.
We can help with understanding and interpretation of the University's Quality Assurance and Enhancement framework and how it has been informed by the Academic Infrastructure developed by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA), including reference to:
For University staff, we are here to provide advice and guidance on academic quality-related matters such as programme development, preparing for approval and review, professional statutory and regulatory bodies (PSRBs), academic partnerships, monitoring & evaluation, the external examiners system - and lots more!
Find more information on the CQA Intranet Site (staff login required) .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/services/estate-management:
The Estate Department provides a high quality service to enable the delivery of a state-of-the-art learning environment for students and the business community within the context of the Estates Strategy.
In this context, the 'estate' comprises all freehold, leasehold and joint venture land and buildings occupied as part of the University business.
The Estate Management department aims amongst other things to:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2024/new-analysis-reveals-graduates-in-east-midlands-earn-at-least-a-third-more-:
27 November 2024
This data provides a new perspective on opportunities for graduates in the East Midlands.
By age 31 graduates from the East Midlands earn 37 per cent more than non-graduates from the same region.
In the East Midlands region graduates can earn up to 96 per cent more compared to other employees in accommodation and food services activities.
This money benefits graduates’ wider communities, and the country as a whole - based on recent analysis, graduate skills, are estimated to have an economic impact of £95 billion nationwide in 2021-2 – and £7 billion in the East Midlands.
There is also a clear trend across the country – that those regions with more graduates are more productive, driving economic growth.
The industries of the future, those that the government has set out as driving growth over the next decade, are heavily dependent on graduate skills – including the creative sector (76 per cent), professional and business services (74 per cent) and life science sector (73 per cent).
In the East Midlands, graduates outperform non-graduates by a third, 10 years after graduation.
Even for those working in sectors which are commonly perceived as not needing degree-level training, such as arts and entertainment, the salary premium is clear, standing at 41.8 per cent.
This analysis shows that a degree allows graduates from all regions to earn more.
Professor Keith McLay, Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Derby , said:
“At the University of Derby, we recognise that our graduates are the future workforce.
Helping to support growth and opportunity, the value of graduate talent, their skills and experience cannot be underestimated.
“As an institution, we also bring more than £300 million to the regional economy every year through jobs, contracts, research and more so play a significant role in the ongoing prosperity and growth of the East Midlands.”
Professor Dame Sally Mapstone, FRSE, President of Universities UK , said:
“Those of us who work in universities witness the transformative power of higher education every day, and it is compelling to see this borne out so strongly in this analysis.
“But this data shows something new – universities are anchors for growth right across the UK.
“As well as contributing to their local area through the money they spend while studying, graduates go on to meet the needs of local industries and to earn more.
“This new analysis gives a clear message to government, local and mayoral authorities that thriving universities in every part of the country are central to the prospects for individuals and communities.”
For more information about the University of Derby, visit derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/fees-and-finance:
Choosing to study a postgraduate course is a positive investment in your future, but as with undergraduate courses, you should consider how you will pay for your studies and living costs.
The majority of students can apply for loans to help fund their studies.
And depending on where you live and your circumstances, bursaries and scholarships might also be available, as well as a 25% alumni discount if you have graduated from the University of Derby.
Our postgraduate degrees are competitively priced, and all essential equipment and activities are included.
Fees vary slightly from course to course depending on the facilities and resources required.
For example, online courses tend to be slightly cheaper because they use fewer facilities.
The most up-to-date fees will be listed on the course page – search for your course and look for the section on fees.
The fees are different depending on whether you normally live in the UK or in another country.
We have produced a breakdown of how your fees are spent for full-time postgraduate students on our taught courses.
To pay for your tuition fees and living costs, you may be able to take out a student loan.
These loans don’t usually need to be paid back until you have graduated and your salary has reached a specific level.
Sometimes, bursaries and scholarships are also available - eligibility depends on your circumstances and which country you usually live in.
These don’t need to be paid back.
Alternatively, if you are working, your employer may be willing to contribute towards your fees.
If you normally live in England and are under 60 when you start your course, you may be able to borrow up to £12,858 if your course starts on or after 1 August 2025.
You can use this loan to pay for your tuition fees or living costs while you are studying a taught or research-based postgraduate course at masters level such as an MA, MSc, MBA, LLM, MRes or MPhil.
Check the Postgraduate Masters Loan information on the gov.uk website .
Interest is charged on the Masters Loan and, of course, you need to pay the loan back – but not until you have graduated and your salary is over the threshold amount for your repayment plan.
The threshold amounts change every year.
You can make voluntary payments to your loan at any time.
If you are under 60 when you start your course, you may be able to borrow up to £30,301 to study a doctoral-level course, such as a PhD or EdD, if your course starts after 1 August 2025.
Postgraduate Doctoral Loan information on the gov.uk website .
Interest is charged on the loan and, of course, you need to pay this loan back - but not until you have graduated (or it’s the April four years after the course started) and your salary is over the threshold amount for your repayment plan.
If you have already completed a full undergraduate degree with us, you could get a discount on your postgraduate course fees.
This applies to most postgraduate courses.
A 25% alumni discount is available if you graduated in the academic year 2022/23 or 2023/24 and fully enrol on a postgraduate course by July 2025.
Otherwise, our normal alumni discount is 10%.
More information can be found here .
Read terms and conditions for our alumni discount
For UK students on a part-time course, our flexible payments make it easier for you by spreading the cost across the academic year.
The repayment dates depend on when you enrol on the course.
We offer several research studentships each year.
These are very specific research degrees that are either fully or partially funded so they are highly competitive.
Find out about our latest studentships and other sources of funding for your research degree.
If you are working and your course is related to your job, your employer may be willing to pay some or all of your fees.
They will need to send us a sponsor letter on headed paper confirming that they will pay for all or part of your course.
If you are training to be a teacher, you can get finance for Initial Teacher Training, a PGCE and SCITT (School-Centred Initial Teacher Training).
Bursaries are also available – these don’t need to be repaid but they do vary according to the subject you’re planning to teach and the classification of your first degree.
Find out more about paying for your teacher training on the Get Into Teaching website .
Funding has recently changed for postgraduate pre-registration health care courses.
If you are studying one of the following courses, you will be able to apply for a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan with the same terms and conditions as an undergraduate loan.
Visit the Student Finance website to find out more, particularly the Eligibility section.
If you are studying another health care course or a social work course , you may be entitled to a bursary to help with living costs and tuition fees.
Bursaries don’t need to be repaid.
Find out more about social work bursaries and health care bursaries .
In order to meet your visa requirements, you must show that you have access to a certain amount of money for your course fees and living costs in the UK – this is called maintenance.
The amount of money you need depends on how long your course is and how much of your course fees you have already paid.
Find out more about maintenance.
International postgraduate students may be eligible for a number of scholarships, discounts and bursaries.
Find out more about international scholarships, discounts and bursaries .
If you normally live in England and have a mental health problem, long-term illness or any other disability, you may be eligible for support through the Disabled Students' Allowances scheme.
The support you receive depends on your individual needs, not on your income or savings.
Find out more information on the gov.uk website .
Please also talk to us about what support you need to study .
From September 2020, all undergraduate and postgraduate pre-registration nursing, occupational therapy and radiography students will receive a grant of at least £5,000 per year that will not have to be repaid.
An additional £3,000 per year is available in some circumstances to support with childcare costs and depending on regional demand for your profession.
The new package will supplement existing support available, such as tuition fee and maintenance loans.
Find out more about Nursing and Allied Health Funding
You may be eligible for one of our bursaries or scholarships, which provide a small contribution towards the costs of studying with us.
These can range from £100 to £5,000 and you usually have to meet certain criteria to get these.
Scholarships and bursaries are available for UK, EU and international students.
Learn more about Postgraduate scholarships and bursaries
T: +44 (0)1332 593110 E: studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk
Monday to Thursday: 9am-5pm Friday: 9am-4.30pm
E: smart@derby.ac.uk
If you have recently graduated from the University of Derby, you could get up to 25% off your postgraduate fees.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/apply:
You can apply for postgraduate study at the University of Derby in either taught courses or research and there are full-time and part-time options available.
A postgraduate course is usually undertaken after achieving your first university degree or if you have equivalent work experience.
There are two types of postgraduate study:
Postgraduate degrees usually start in September in any given year but some subjects will also offer alternative start months.
PGT courses are delivered and assessed similarly to undergraduate degrees through a series of taught modules and may include independent research in a specialist area.
PGT study can lead to one of three qualifications:
PGR represents a formal area of study that is recognised by the University.
PGR study can vary in duration depending on the route you take.
You can take masters degrees by research (MRes or MPhil), for which most (if not all) of the degree is by thesis and some may include an element of coursework.
Other common qualifications you can achieve through postgraduate research study are doctorates such as PhD (doctor of philosophy), EdD (doctor of education), DProf (doctor of professional practice) or doctor of health and social care practice.
Here’s all you need to know about applying for postgraduate taught (PGT) or postgraduate research (PGR) study at the University of Derby if you are from the UK.
If you are from the UK and want to apply for postgraduate taught study at the University of Derby, you need to apply directly to the University.
Further guidance on the application process
If you are from the UK and want to apply for postgraduate research degree programme at the University of Derby, you need to apply directly to the University.
If you wish to study an MPhil or PhD, go to our research degrees application page .
If you wish to study an MRes:
Further guidance on the research degree application process
Here’s all you need to know about applying for postgraduate taught (PGT) or postgraduate research (PGR) study at the University of Derby if you are from outside the UK.
Our International Admissions Team can help you with any information or guidance.
If you are from outside the UK, there are two ways to apply for postgraduate taught study at the University of Derby.
You can apply directly to the University or you can apply through a country representative.
You can get help with your University of Derby application from one of our overseas representatives .
We have a network of representatives throughout the world who will also guide you in obtaining a visa and making travel arrangements.
These agents will usually use our direct application process.
Please note that for courses starting in September 2019 and beyond, all applicants from Ghana and Pakistan will need to register with an agent in order to proceed with your application.
If you are from outside the UK or EU and want to apply for postgraduate research degree programme at the University of Derby, you need to apply directly to the University.
Further guidance on the research degrees application process
These are the international qualifications we accept for entry on to a postgraduate course.
You will usually need a four year undergraduate degree from a recognised institution
For non-business masters: IELTS: 6.0 (with a minimum of 5.5 in all areas).
Pearson Test of Academic English: 60 Cambridge English Scale: B2 London Tests of English: we accept level 5 for postgraduate courses International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C International GCSE English or English as a Second Language: Grade C.
For business school masters programmes:
IELTS 6.5 (with a minimum of 5.5 in all areas).
Some courses have higher English language entry requirements, please check the specific course details for more information.
If English is not your first language, you must have an IELTS score of 6.5 with a minimum of 5.5 in all areas (speaking, listening, reading, writing) or we may be able to accept one of the equivalent qualifications below:
Any data you submit to this site will be subject to that company’s privacy terms and will not sit under the University's privacy policies.
If you have any queries, you can contact the Data Protection Officer at gdpr@derby.ac.uk .
Some courses have higher English language entry requirements and in some cases will strictly only accept IELTS, please check the specific course details for more information.
Find out more about English language testing for September 2025 entry
Please note that if you need an IELTS test for UK visa applications, you can only take them at a UKVI approved IELTS test centre.
Find out more about student visas
If you've studied in a country where English is the first language (such as the UK, the USA, Canada or Australia) you may not need a formal English language qualification: we will look at everyone's application individually.
If you don't think you have the correct requirements, please contact us so we can check for you.
If English is not your first language, we must be satisfied that you have the necessary English language skills to undertake a research investigation.
You will need:
You do not need to supply an IELTS certificate if you have completed a degree from a predominantly English-speaking country, as defined by the UKVI (UK Visas and Immigration) or if you have citizenship of a predominantly English-speaking country, as defined by the UKVI .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/ways-to-study:
Postgraduate study means different things to different people.
A part-time masters degree, full-time teacher training, a shorter professionally-accredited qualification or an in-depth research degree.
We offer a wide variety of options to help you find the best path for you.
Postgraduate study presents a world of opportunity for career and personal development.
That’s why we offer a full range of postgraduate qualifications across a range of flexible study options to fit into your life.
Much of your learning will be campus-based and will include traditional lectures, seminars, discussion groups, projects, and more.
We also use technology and media to bring you the most up-to-date learning resources.
Many of our postgraduate courses are available part-time for UK or home status students.
This gives you the option to fit your study around other commitments.
You are likely to need to attend some weekday lectures, but on fewer days than full-time students.
A part-time postgraduate degree can take two to six years to complete.
Search our part-time courses .
We have been a leader in online education for almost two decades.
We offer everything from short credit-bearing courses and courses for continuing professional development to apprenticeships and full undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.
Find out more about online courses .
Our lives don’t always fit around the academic calendar.
Fortunately, many of our postgraduate courses also have the option to start in January .
How to become an independent learner
How I make postgraduate study work for me
Studying flexibly as a postgraduate student

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/innovation-and-research-at-the-univesity-of-derby.php:
[🎵 Music throughout 🎵]
Back to Postgraduate

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/accommodation:
Our postgraduate accommodation is just a short walk from our campuses and is a great place to make friends and live with other postgraduate students.
If you’d like to have a look around our halls before you apply, come along to one of our Open Events .
Our halls of residence are a convenient base for anyone needing accommodation during their course, close to the city centre and within easy reach of our facilities.
You can choose between our small complex of apartments or immerse yourself in the full swing of student life by sharing with undergraduates in our larger and more traditional halls of residence.
In a quiet residential area next to our Kedleston Road site, Flamsteed Court is a small complex of 30 two-bedroom apartments specifically for postgraduate and mature students.
Each apartment has two double en-suite rooms, an open plan kitchen/diner and lounge including a television (licence paid).
An annual parking permit is available at £370 for cars and £200 for motorbikes.
Bike storage is free.
With the University’s library, the Union of Students and Sports Centre close at hand, you’ll also find bus stops for the city centre or local shops just a minute away.
Across the road is Markeaton Park, popular for family or outdoor activities.
Our more traditional halls offer you cost-effective accommodation with electricity, gas, water, Wi-Fi and room contents insurance included in the price.
They are safe and secure with staff on site 24 hours a day.
En-suite bedrooms are available, as are rooms suitable for anyone with a disability or a medical condition.
If you’d prefer to rent a private property with your friends or by yourself, we can help you find the right place through the DASH scheme .
If you have any questions about accommodation, contact us .
There are lots of benefits to living in halls when you move to a foreign country.
All our halls are located near to the University, local shops, bars and restaurants.
The University of Derby’s halls fees are all inclusive so you won’t have to pay any extra bills.
Halls staff will help you settle into your new home and are always on hand to help with any issues you may have.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/common-questions-about-postgraduate-study:
Do you have a question about postgraduate study at Derby?
We've gathered together answers to the questions we are asked the most.
If you can't find what you're looking for here, please get in touch .
Fees vary depending on the specific course and whether it is full-time, part-time, or online.
Please use our postgraduate course search to check the relevant course page for exact fees.
Enrolment is open until about two weeks before the course begins, but it's best to submit your application as early as possible as some courses fill quickly.
All applications must be made through the MyDerby Application Portal .
You will need to provide:
We aim to contact you with an update about the status of your offer within a week of receiving your application.
You may be eligible to apply for a postgraduate student loan to pay for your tuition fees and living costs.
These loans don’t usually need to be paid back until you have graduated and are earning above a set threshold.
Masters Loans are available if you normally live in England and are under 60.
This loan can be used to pay for tuition fees or living costs while you are studying a part-time or full-time, taught or research-based postgraduate course at masters level such as an MA, MSc, MBA, LLM, MRes, or MPhil.
Find out more about Masters Loans
Doctoral Loans are available to pay for tuition fees or living costs while you are studying a part-time or full-time doctoral-level course such as a PhD or EdD.
Find out more about Doctoral Loans
If you have already completed a full undergraduate degree with us, you could be eligible for an alumni discount of up to 25% on your postgraduate course fees.
If you are studying part-time and normally live in the UK, our flexible payments also help to spread the cost across the academic year.
You may be eligible for a 25% discount if you graduated in the academic years 2022/23 or 2023/24 and are fully enrolled on a postgraduate course by July 2025.
Find out more about our alumni discounts
We regularly offer funded doctoral studentships .
These opportunities commonly cover tuition fees to the UK home/EU level and provide a tax-free stipend.
You can apply for a Disabled Students' Allowance if you live in England and have a disability that affects your ability to study.
The social work bursary can be used to help with study and living costs.
This is a National Health Service (NHS) bursary and certain conditions apply.
Find out more about the social work bursary
You may be eligible for a teaching bursary or scholarship while you are training to teach.
These vary according to your subject, and you must meet certain criteria.
We have a range of scholarships available for international students.
Some are automatically awarded and some require a separate application.
You can apply for a scholarship once you have received an offer from us.
All applications from eligible students will be considered by our international admissions team.
Any discounts will be applied when you pay your fees.
Find out more about our range of scholarships and discounts for international students and how to apply.
You can apply to study with us directly or through an agent.
Some agents may charge for their services so please check this with them.
We work with a network of agents in most countries around the world who can support you.
To find your nearest recruitment agent visit our international team and agents page .
You will need to upload the following items to the application portal during your application:
Requirements vary depending on the course.
Please use our postgraduate course search to check the relevant course page for exact requirements.
We have a range of scholarships, bursaries, and discounts available to overseas students.
You will need to apply from some of the scholarships, but all others are assessed for eligibility alongside your application.
Find out more information about our scholarships and discounts

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/student-stories:
At Derby, we are ready to help you fulfil your ambitions, with relevant education that will prepare you for the road ahead.
We will stretch, challenge and support you to achieve your goals.
Find out how our students and graduates are making it real.
As an animator, Nathan is passionate about creating content that is a force for social change.
Using his skills and passion, and with his tutor's support, he created the first Mental Roots animation for the BBC.
Pretty Gill is in her third year of part-time masters study.
On top of her studies for an MSc in Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy, she also runs fitness classes and is a mum to two young boys.
Rabia Khan likes a challenge.
She balanced her Master of Public Health with looking after young twin boys and emerged after her studies into a global pandemic.
She is now working as an Associate Director of Epidemiology for AstraZenca.
Callum had a dream to work with elite professional footballers.
But after completing his MSc in Applied Sport and Exercise Science, his career goals took a different direction.
He is now ready to carve out an academic career starting with a research project into long Covid recovery.
Kanish Jones makes a difference, every day.
As Interventions Facilitator at HMP Whatton, Kanish works with offenders to help them develop skills that will reduce their risk of re-offending.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/course-search:
Take your career to the next level with our online Accounting courses, designed for busy professionals.
Our degrees have a range of accreditations and endorsements, showing they meet high standards.
Our Built Environments programmes are designed for you to achieve a work-based masters degree by studying part-time, online alongside your current employment.
Our extensive range of online Business courses are a perfect choice for aspiring Business professionals.
Our courses are ideal for anyone at any stage of their career journey.
Designed to develop your skills in the core areas of computing and IT, our online courses will help you achieve a competitive advantage in one of the fastest growing global industries.
Develop your psychotherapy and mental health skills while you’re working, with this range of innovative online courses.
Improve your expertise as a teacher, educator or trainer with our suite of online courses in education.
Whether your desire is to gain iQTS or an iPGCE, or you wish to study areas such as childhood, i...
Skills in sustainability, environmental management and environmental health are in demand like never before.
Now is the ideal time to develop your skills and put yourself ahead of your peers.
Our online Ergonomics course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors.
It meets their high standards and gives you the opportunity to gain graduate membership.
As a health and social care professional, you know your continuing professional development is vital.
Our online courses enable you to fit studying around your shift patterns and other commitments.
Our online Hospitality courses are accredited by the Institute of Hospitality and can be studied from university diploma to masters level, helping you to progress your career in this dynamic industry.
Our online nursing courses make it easier for you to stay registered, competent and current, from accredited top-up degrees to short continuing professional development modules.
Contribute to original research and shape professional practice through an online Professional Doctorate to take your career to the next level as you become an expert in your discipline.
We are one of the leading institutions for British Psychological Society-accredited online Psychology courses that are designed with your career in mind.
We have online courses in a wide range of subjects, with more being added all the time.
You'll find courses in areas from Accounting to Education , Built Environments to Environmental Sciences , Nursing to Hospitality .
Explore our subject areas to see all of the courses available in that area, including single modules and short courses for CPD (continuing professional development) as well as undergraduate and postgraduate qualifications.
Alternatively, you might prefer to search for a course .
We run regular, live webinars to help you find out more about online learning or particular subjects and courses.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/webinars:
We run regular, free webinars.
Some are a general introduction to online learning, so you can see if this way of studying is right for you, while others tell you more about a specific course.
There are also general interest webinars about current or emerging issues in different fields.
Can’t attend a webinar live?
Don’t worry, if you register for one of our webinars you will receive a recording to watch back in your own time.
If you're interested in joining the online Q&A: BA (Hons) Special Educational Needs and Disability (Top-Up) course and wish to find out more, join the live Q&A to hear from Trevor Cotterill, Programme Leader, and get your questions answered.
If you're interested in joining the MBA Global programme, join the live Q&A to hear from Dr.
Justin Okoli, Programme Leader for MBA Global (online) and get your questions answered.
If you're interested in joining the online MA Education course and wish to find out more, join the live Q&A to hear from Melody Harrogate, Programme Leader, and get your questions answered.
If you're interested in joining the MSc Ergonomics and Human Factors (online) course and wish to find out more, join the live Q&A to hear from Dr.
Victoria Filingeri Programme Leader, and get your questions answered.
If you're interested in joining the online BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies course and wish to find out more, join the live Q&A to hear from Jenny Boldrin, Programme Leader, and get your questions answered.
If you're interested in joining the Education Studies (BA Hons) (Top-up) and wish to find out more, join the live Q&A to hear from Jade Palmer, Programme Leader, and get your questions answered.
If you're interested in joining the online BSc (Hons) Business and Management course and wish to find out more, join the live Q&A to hear from Dr Valentina Gorchakova, Programme Leader, and get your questions answered.
If you're interested in joining the BSc (Hons) Psychology or Psychology University Certificate online courses and wish to find out more, join the live Q&A to hear from Dr Sophie Williams, Programme Leader, and get your questions answered.
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
The webinar includes a 40 minute presentation and an opportunity to take part in a Q&A.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/student-success:
We love to celebrate our student’s success.
If you're feeling motivated then why not check out our range of online courses and see if there is a course to suit you.
You could be our next student success story.
Thobekile overcame challenges.
Water and electricity shutdowns didn't stop her studying.
If reading by candlelight was impossible, she waited until the power came back on, even if it was in the night.
Sarah wanted to make the system better.
That's why she studied our BSc (Hons) Integrative Health and Social Care Top-up degree.
And she has graduated with first-class honours.
Working 12-hour shifts in a hospital in Malta meant Lisa Libreri had no time for a traditional university experience.
Then a colleague recommended flexible, online study with UDOL.
Mo helps patients on their journey to recovery in a hospital psychiatric department in Austria.
We helped him gain a deeper understanding of his patient’s issues without online counselling course.
Alawi is aiming to implement and improve the health and safety culture across Saudi Arabia.
He is studying our online Ergonomics MSc to expand his knowledge and help with aspirations for the future.
A fascination with the human psyche had always been a constant thread in Amanda's life, it was something she was deeply passionate about.
That’s when she decided to study our Psychology MSc.
Ann-Marie was about as far away from Derby as it is possible to be when she found her passion.
After completing our online Psychology BSc, she plans to continue her studies and do a masters and PhD.
When George Papakyritsis found his true calling was becoming a practising therapist, he realised studying our accredited online Psychology BSc (Hons) was his best first step to achieving his goal.
Phil set his sights on emigrating to Australia.
For him gaining a degree would help him to achieve his goal.
Now armed with a Nursing Studies (Top-Up) BSc, he is in the process of obtaining a visa.
Tyra achieved more than she ever thought possible.
She gained a First in her Business and Management BSc while juggling some major life changes, including getting married and having two children.
Jackie found her passion of caring for others after her mother became unwell.
She enrolled onto our online Integrative Health and Social Care (Top-Up) BSc and is now helping run a rehabilitation unit.
At school, in Switzerland, Gabrielle had focused on becoming a musician and left with few academic qualifications.
Her subsequent experience in admin, HR and accounting showed her obvious abilities.
For Sunita online learning was the only way to fit her studies in around her busy life.
She is now using her degree as a stepping-stone to study her masters and gain a leadership and management role.
Nick had been working in technology for nearly three decades when he decided to study online.
Nick's now applying his newfound knowledge to take his career to the next level.
Neil Cufley was a soldier for 20 years.
After leaving the Army, he wanted to give himself the best chance of progressing in a new career.
So he signed up for our online MBA.
With aspirations to be the best in her field, Adebanke studied our Big Data Analytics MSc.
This has helped her to make profitable business decisions, advance her career and support her community.
Gilson knew there was something missing in his methods working as a physiotherapist.
He wanted a more holistic approach – and found the answer in ergonomics.
Now he's making a difference in Zimbabwe.
Online student Asmaa Sakr has used her MSc in Information Technology to research how emerging technologies, particularly extended reality technologies, can be used in higher education.
Having two young children and a business wasn’t enough to put Joy off her dream of pursuing a career as an educational psychologist.
She just needed to find a way to fit it all into her busy life.
Stephen chose to study at an accelerated rate meaning he completed his course within a year.
He has developed new skills that have helped him to become a better nurse and an inspiration to others.
Ken was inspired to become a psychotherapist when he saw the amazing positive changes counselling brought to people.
He has now found his true calling – and he’s continuing to learn with our help.
For Philippa, Ergonomics is about making her products right for the end user.
It’s about getting everything in the perfect place.
And it’s about saving lives.
Because she designs tanks for the Army.
From the age of five, Rachel knew that she wanted to become a nurse.
Now her passion and drive for mental health has made her push her career even further.
For Kelly, studying online was her only option.
At times, she doubted her abilities but, with our support, she increased her self-belief and realised she could exceed her own expectations.
Sarah was living and teaching abroad, a mother of two young children, when her husband passed away.
Returning to the UK, her passion and courage have helped her steer her career in a new direction.
What do you do if you are a German living in Denmark and you want to study a Psychology degree?
This was the dilemma faced by Regina Holler.
The solution?
Studying in England.
Fiona was in the second year of our Psychology degree, writing an essay on what stops women going to the doctor when they spot breast cancer symptoms.
That’s when she found out she had breast cancer.
Karen is passionate about working with children.
And she decided to study our Early Childhood Studies BA (Hons) online top-up degree to gain a deeper understanding of children.
Originally from Italy, Brando was driven by a passion for technology and innovation.
He developed his understanding of the IT sector by studying a BSc (Hons) Computing and Information Technology.
Originally from Nigeria, Ejiroghene is a driven professional who enjoys developing herself and her career.
She qualified as an adult and mental health nurse in Nigeria in 2017 and moved to UK in 2021.
Stephanie is passionate about health and, after researching different pathways on the British Psychological Society during the Covid-19 pandemic, she realised that studying Psychology was best.
Nina-Jane explores a new exciting career, studying online whilst overcoming personal struggles.
She goes on to show her resilience and determination, succeeding her goals and aspirations.
Olga's journey from English language teacher to EdTech coach is full of determination, persistence and commitment.
This resulted in move into a exciting new career.
Jayne wanted to progress in her career, but to achieve the promotion she aspired for, she had to gain a degree qualification.
Jayne went on to achieve a First-class Honours degree.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/studying-online:
Online learning fits around you like no other learning can.
You can join a live seminar from anywhere in the world, study while you commute, or chat to fellow students online after you’ve put the children to bed.
That's why studying online has become so popular.
Developed with employers and professional bodies, our online courses can take your career to the next level, or in a new direction.
Through work-related tasks and projects, you’ll quickly understand how to apply your learning and see its value as you start to use it to make a difference.
We think beyond the qualification, ensuring you leave with not just an award, but the practical skills you need to go further in your career, as well as greater confidence and self-belief.
It’s a winning combination for you and your employer.
We have more accredited programmes than any other online education provider in the UK.
Find out why that's good news for your career.
You will be studying with a UK university for an internationally recognised degree or other qualification.
Our courses have to meet the same strict academic standards that all UK university courses do.
Online courses are just as challenging and are worth the same as equivalent on-campus courses.
Read more about our quality standards .
When you join one of our programmes, you join a global professional network who you can learn from - not just alongside.
We currently have 5,500 online students studying with us, from 120 different countries; all with unique experiences and skillsets.
Because of this you'll take part in some really fascinating discussions that will help you think about the topics in a global context.
Expect to be surprised and challenged.
You'll get great support from across the University, thanks to the 'cloud campus' we've built over the last decade.
This ensures you get access to the full range of student services, from the library and IT support to wellbeing and the Union of Students.
This ready-made support network will help you stay on track and help you succeed.
It will also help you really feel part of the University of Derby.
Although you will be learning remotely, our technology makes it easy to build relationships with tutors and other students, even across different time zones.
Our virtual learning environment has built-in tools to enable discussion and group work, including:
It also integrates with popular collaboration platforms such as Microsoft 365.
If you're using these kinds of tools at work already, it will feel very familiar, and if you're not, you will have the support you need to develop valuable new digital skills.
This short video explains more about online learning environment, known as the Student Portal: how it works, what it looks like and what support you'll receive.
View Introduction to UDO Your Online Learning Environment video transcript
Find out more about us and our track record.
Read more about the support you'll receive to help you succeed.
Read answers to the questions we get asked the most.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online:
Need CPD for professional recognition?
Our cutting-edge online short courses and CPD courses could be the key.
Browse A-Z online short courses
Many of our short courses are CPD accredited, allowing professionals to use the learning time towards their own CPD requirements.
We offer a growing range of professional development online courses to help you in your personal development.
It is important to maintain and enhance your skills and knowledge throughout your working life to remain effective in the workplace, to maintain professional registration, to improve your career prospects and to build competence, confidence and credibility.
Our professional development courses include standalone modules which provide transferable University credits, short courses and free courses .
All are available to complete entirely online, and help you to meet your personal and professional development goals.
We are proud to be an accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office for our online short courses and free courses, demonstrating that they conform to CPD best practice and are appropriate for inclusion in a formal CPD record.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/applying:
To apply for an online course, you will need to fill in our online application form in English.
It doesn't cost you anything to apply, there is no obligation to enrol and once you've started your application, you have 30 days to complete it.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 2 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Read more about the application process .
Start your application Continue your application
The steps below detail the stages and activities you will go through to submit your application and then continue through enrolment.
Please ensure you submit your application and enrolment in line with the deadlines, which are each detailed in the sections that follow.
You will first need to submit an application for the programme you wish to study.
You can start this process by clicking on Apply Now from your chosen course page or direct from our each course page or from our Applying page .
Please ensure you submit your application and provide all supporting documentation ahead of the application deadline.
Once your application has been processed and any queries are resolved, you will receive an offer (subject to meeting to entry requirements for the programme).
Please make sure you read the offer letter thoroughly and raise any questions you may have.
Please take note of any pre-requisite module you may need to complete.
You must accept your offer in writing by replying to the offer email.
Once you have accepted your offer, and the enrolment window opens, you will receive a password creation email and an 'Invitation to enrol' email and you will begin the enrolment process.
Please refer to the full guide below for additional support on creating a password and submitting your enrolment.
Please ensure you submit your enrolment ahead of the enrolment deadline.
Once you have submitted enrolment, you will be able to access your course and begin the induction activities.
Please note: this may take 48 hours.
Before your place on the programme can be confirmed, you will need to submit the required payment for your course or provide a sponsorship letter or evidence of Student Finance being in place.
Once you have submitted your enrolment and made a payment, your enrolment will be checked and any queries will be raised with you.
You will need to ensure you respond to such queries ahead of the enrolment deadline.
Once payment is received and enrolment verified your enrolment will be confirmed.
You will receive a confirmation email which will advise you of the next steps to start your studies.
All student tiles will now be available to you in UDo.
If you have not already, please ensure you complete your course induction by following the induction pathway as instructed in the confirmation email.
Once term commences you can log on to UDo and commence your first module.
For most of our courses, you can start in either January, May or September.
Our application portal is open for the below intakes, where applicable for each course.
We encourage you to apply early to secure your place and to progress through the admissions and enrolment processes in good time ahead of the start of term.
By joining your course at the start of term, you will have the best opportunity of being successful in your studies.
It is possible to join some courses after the start of term, though subsequently you would be required to catch up with your course materials otherwise this may adversely affect your outcomes.
*Some online courses have distinctive application and admissions processes, and therefore their applications deadlines may differ to those stated above.
Where this is the case, you can find details on the course page ‘How to apply’ section.
Once your application is complete, you will be invited to enrol onto your programme and make your module selection.
For information on how to enrol, please read our enrolment guide .
If you think you've already covered parts of a course - at another institution, in training, or through experience at work - you may be able to apply for Recognition of Prior Learning.
Online student Mo Aledeh helps patients on their journey to recovery in a hospital psychiatric department in Austria.
Gaining a deeper understanding of his patient’s issues would help him in his role.
Our online counselling courses have helped him find that understanding.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/fees-finance:
Studying online can be a really cost effective way to gain a qualification.
Our course fees vary greatly depending on the length of course, its level and the resources required to run it, so you'll need to search for an online course to find out what the latest fees are.
We review fees each spring to ensure our courses remain competitively priced.
We are open and transparent about our fees so that you know exactly what is included.
It’s free to make an application and there are no hidden administration costs, so you don't need to pay anything until you enrol.
Find out more about payment plans, savings and discounts and how to pay.
Learn about the different ways to fund your studies, including loans and sponsorship.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/studying-online/about:
We’re the University of Derby Online Learning (UDOL), a leader in online education for over two decades.
We can help you to achieve more and be more, in your professional and personal life.
That's our day job — and we love it.
Our courses are engaging and interactive, meet high academic and professional standards and are delivered by a top UK university.
We have a talented in-house team.
Our programmes are created and taught by experts from a university.
Many academics are active researchers, working at the forefront of their fields, and bring their cutting-edge insights into their teaching.
We have plenty of experience in online learning too, having designed and delivered over 100 online courses since 2001.
This means you can trust us to run a high-quality course.
Our technology is proven and we have an established network of support for you as an online learner.
We offer over 100 part-time courses that are delivered online; everything from single modules and short courses for CPD, to apprenticeships and full undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.
Our courses are built around robust academic frameworks that are approved to UK standards, so you’ll get the same internationally recognised qualifications that you would from an on-campus course.
That's because they've been developed with input from employers and professional bodies so your course will help take your career to the next level, or in a new direction.
As an online student at Derby, your learning will be engaging, interactive, social and collaborative.
If you thought it wasn't possible to learn from other students or have a stimulating group discussion with online learning, think again.
To ensure you get the best online student experience possible, we've developed our own model for online learning.
It combines best practice principles around programme design, online teaching and learning, support and inclusivity, with current digital tools and platforms .
This model, which is unique to our University, has been based on the latest research and data along with what we've personally learned from our over two decades of experience in online teaching.
Over the four years Tyra studied at the University of Derby Online Learning, as well as her wedding, her children and her degree, she travelled to 15 different countries, lived in two countries and managed to save a nest egg.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/studying-online/faqs:
Eligibility for undergraduate and postgraduate loans is dependent upon where you live.
For further information, please visit our fees and finance section for more information.
The Student Finance website is also a useful source of information.
The University of Derby Online Learning courses are unfortunately not eligible for Advanced Learner Loans or for US Federal loans.
Yes, we have two payment plans to choose from.
These are designed to be simple and straightforward, allowing you to spread the cost of your course.
For further information, see our payment plan information .
Our ELCAS number is 1276.
Please refer to the individual entry requirements for your chosen online course .
If you are still unsure whether you are eligible, we strongly advise you to submit an application with all of your supporting documents and a detailed CV so that we can make a full review of your eligibility.
We teach all courses in English.
If English is not your first language, you will need a good level of both written and spoken English.
Search for your course and check the 'entry requirements' section on the course page for more details.
There is no fee to apply for any of our online courses.
The personal statement should be no more than 4000 characters (approximately 500 words).
You may want to include your reasons for applying for the course, your experience in the field, how you feel you would benefit from studying and relevant information about your previous studies.
You could also tell us about your non-academic experiences in the field, how you feel you would benefit from studying and relevant information about your previous studies.
You could also tell us about your non-academic experiences relevant to you course such as hobbies, interests, participation in any clubs, societies or voluntary work.
If you have all the documentation you need to upload to the application, it should take no more than an hour to complete.
Once you’ve submitted your application, you will immediately receive an email confirming that we have received it.
You will typically receive a decision within 2 weeks.
Processing your application and giving you a decision may take longer if we require further information from you or if your application is referred to the academic for a decision.
If you have any questions about the application process, contact us at onlineadmissions@derby.ac.uk or phone us on +44 (0)1332 594000 .
Your qualification details including grades and dates taken.
You will have the opportunity to upload scanned copies of your qualification certificates/transcripts in the application.
If these were not issued in English, you will need to provide certified translated copies as part of your application.
If you have no formal qualifications, you can also state this in your application to us.
A scanned copy of your passport or other official photographic ID, e.g.
photo driving licence.
This will help us verify your application to study with us.
If you do not have any photo ID, we will accept a scanned copy of your birth certificate.
Your work experience – this is required if you wish to gain entry to the course based on your work experience, or if this is part of the entry requirements for your chosen programme.
This could be in the form of a CV which you can upload into your application and/or in the form of employer references.
A personal statement showing your interest in the course/subject.
This is a mandatory requirement and you will be able to upload it into your application.
You could also tell us about your non-academic experiences relevant to your course such as hobbies, interests, participation in any clubs, societies or voluntary work.
You may need to supply an employer reference if the course that you are applying for requires you to be in employment, or to have relevant work experience.
The reference should be in written on company headed paper, signed and dated from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher within the last three months.
You can apply for exemptions from modules based on study you've completed at other institutions or relevant work experience that you have in the field.
This is known as Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
Some courses have automatic exemptions based on specific qualifications, for example: MBA Global, Accounting and Finance BA (Hons) Top-Up degree.
You should check your individual online course page for details of automatic exemptions.
If you wish to apply for RPL, you will need to indicate this in your application.
You will be asked if you want to be considered for Recognition of Prior Learning during your application, at which point you will need to select ‘Yes’.
If you are then made an offer to study the programme, you will be required to complete an RPL form and return this with evidence of your credits and/or experience.
For more information about RPL and how to apply please visit our credits for prior learning webpage.
If you wish to apply for RPL you will be required to complete an RPL form and return this with evidence of your experience.
For more information about RPL and how to apply please visit our credits for prior learning webpage.
No.
You can study our online courses from any location around the world so there is no need for you to attend the University campus in the UK for any extensive period of time.
That means you won’t need a visa to achieve your British degree and our online courses do not constitute rightful cause for visa entitlement, or visa extension.
Our online programmes are designed to enable you to easily interact with your fellow students.
During your studies you will make use of a number of online communities (discussion boards and forums) which will help you share experiences and socialise with students across the world.
The majority of our courses can be studied 100% online with no attendance at our Derby campus required.
Due to professional accreditation regulations, a small number of our online courses require you to attend campus.
Further details on residential requirements will be found on the relevant course pages.
The residential weeks are a great way to meet academics and fellow students and have always proved to be very popular with our students.
There will only ever be a maximum of two residential requirements for the duration of your course.
If you are unable to attend the residential week/s, or do not wish to do so, please contact us on +44 (0)1332 594000 and we will be able to discuss this further with you.
Most of our courses are assessed by online coursework.
There are some exceptions; some modules from the Health and Social Care and the Business and Management portfolio have online timed assessments.
You must declare in your application if you are registered for an award with another academic institution.
If so, your admission to the programme will be at the discretion of the Academic Lead for your chosen course.
Please see section D2.2 and D2.3 of our Academic Regulations for more information.
Our online courses can be studied from anywhere in the world.
You will just need to ensure you have access to the relevant software and equipment .
We are aware that within some regions of the world, the IT infrastructure will not allow access to certain types or sources of media.
We make every effort to ensure all our programmes and their content are accessible to our students around the globe so no student is at a disadvantage.
If you are unsure whether this may affect you then please don’t hesitate to get in touch.
You will need to ensure that your location does not have blocks on UK/European websites.
An academic year is a period used by educational institutions to measure the duration of studies; this runs from September to the following August.
All of our academic staff have studied to a high level in their area of expertise, and many also hold higher education teaching qualifications.
Several have previously taught on-campus at the University of Derby, and some still teach at other institutions in addition to their duties as academics on our courses.
Many also engage in research.
Where appropriate, our academics hold membership of recognised professional bodies, such as the Institute of Hospitality, British Psychological Society and the British Association for Counsellors and Psychotherapists.
You can find more information about our academics and their professional experience on each course page.
You can check the course length on the online course page .
Most of our online courses have a standard and maximum length.
Our courses are flexible in terms of length of study.
If you require more information please email us at onlineadmissions@derby.ac.uk .
Once you have enrolled, you will be able to access our student portal, UDo, and begin your induction pathway.
Learning materials and reading lists will be released on the first day of the trimester.
You will need to have a PC, Mac or laptop/notebook, or mobile device with an internet connection.
At the very least you will need one of the following browsers :
The majority of the learning will take place in Blackboard Ultra and Microsoft Teams and so you will need to ensure you are able to access these sites/systems.
It may be useful to undertake the browser compatibility test for Blackboard Ultra.
Other software required:
We are aware that within some regions of the world the IT infrastructure will not allow access to certain types or sources of media.
The maximum registration period for our online courses is the standard course length plus two years, so you must complete your studies within this time.
If you are still unsure, please email us at onlineadmissions@derby.ac.uk .
The University expects students to complete their study inline with their study pattern.
However, the University also recognises students may experience personal difficulties or situations which may seriously disrupt their studies.
In these instances you can take an authorised Break from Study  for up to a maximum of one year (three trimesters).
Each 20 credit module is studied over a 10 week period (one trimester).
The standard rate of study is one 20 credit module per trimester and the minimum recommended number of hours of study is 20 hours a week.
Many of our programmes do offer the flexibility of being studied at an accelerated rate of two 20 credit modules per trimester with the minimum recommended number of hours of study of 40 hours a week.
We recommend that in your first trimester of study with us that you study at a standard rate of one 20 credit module.
This will enable you to get used to the online learning environment and study demands.
We would also recommend that if you have a full-time job that you study at the standard rate of study.
Online learning involves a combination of tutor discussions, reading, research, online activities and critical thinking and reflection.
We have developed our online courses to be social and collaborative, with plenty of opportunities to network and connect.
Module tutors will hold virtual classrooms and seminars for live discussion and open debate, and these will be recorded for you to revisit at a later date.
We also encourage you to engage with fellow students through discussion boards, forums, wikis and blogs so you never feel like you’re studying in isolation.
Through your student portal, you can access your virtual learning environment including course resources and study materials, as well as your student email account, grades and more.
You’ll also have full access to the university’s range of online services, including the library, student wellbeing and support services, careers advice and IT support.
All of your learning materials and resources are accessible via the web, be that with your PC, Mac or laptop/notebook, or your mobile device with an internet connection.
At the end of each module you will be expected to submit an assignment.
You will always have a point of contact to support you with both academic and non-academic issues.
From enquiry to enrolment, you will have a dedicated admissions advisor to answer any queries you may have about your course choices or the application process.
From enrolment to graduation, the online learning advisor team can help you with any non-academic issues or queries that you may have.
For any queries regarding your academic studies, you will have a dedicated online tutor and programme lead.
These are experts in their subject areas, who can answer any questions you may have regarding the content or assessment of your course.
Our online courses are just as high quality as our on-campus courses.
They go through the same quality assurance process as all UK higher education courses so they are equally challenging and hold the same value.
In some respects, it can be more difficult to study a programme online as you will need to be self-motivated, organised and committed to completing your studies.
Studying online gives you the flexibility to complete the course using your spare time, without the need to travel to campus or attend lectures at fixed times.
When you take an online degree with us, you also get direct access to university-standard teaching, facilities and support.
We don’t sell other people’s courses – we design and deliver our own online degrees, so you deal directly with us at all times.
And because we’ve been an established educational institution since 1851, you can be confident in receiving the same high quality degree you would expect from any UK university.
From talking to online students, graduates and our online tutors, here’s what we think you need to succeed as an online student:
Enrolment is a compulsory registration process that will officially recognise you as a student of the University.
You are required to enrol at the beginning of each academic year in order to sign up to the University’s Terms and Conditions and add modules in order to confirm your intention to study
Once enrolment opens for your chosen intake; you will be sent two emails.
You will receive an email from our IT Department asking you to create a password.
You will also receive an invitation to enrol email from our Enrolment Team that will guide you through the enrolment process.
You will need to have created your password before being able to log in and complete your enrolment.
Please refer to the online guidance on the IT Service Centre Knowledge Base website to help you with all aspects of your Uni account creation.
Visit Applicant Password Creation and Management.
If you are unable to log into the enrolment portal, new students should email udolenrolment@derby.ac.uk.
Continuing students should email onlinelearning@derby.ac.uk
Most programmes have two different rates of study:
We recommend that a 20 credit module is approximately 20 hours study time a week.
Think carefully about your family, work and social commitments when deciding how quickly you think you can study.
It is important that you plan your time carefully in order to keep up with the teaching and work submission schedules.
We have different payment methods and there are several ways to fund your studies.
Please see our fees and finance page for more information.
Please visit our website for more information about our cancellation policy .
If you do not wish to start/continue your studies at this time, you may have the opportunity to defer to a later intake point during this academic year.
It is important to note that you can only defer your initial enrolment for 12 months from the intake you applied for.
Please let us know if you want to defer or withdraw by emailing us:
Applicants
Please email onlineadmissions@derby.ac.uk – Please include your user ID (Student number) and name in the email.
New students currently enrolling
Continuing students
Please email onlinelearning@derby.ac.uk – Please include your user ID (Student number) and name in the email.
Once submitted, your enrolment and funding will then be checked by a member of the team who will either confirm your enrolment or query any details with you.
You will be able to access the student portal, UDo, and the virtual learning environment, Blackboard, within 48 hours.
You can then start your induction.
Once your enrolment and funding have been checked, we will send you confirmation by email along with all the information you need to successfully begin our studies.
Your virtual student ID card can be accessed via the Unicard tile on UDo.
Physical student ID cards are only issued to students who intend to visit campus in Derby.
In such cases, please visit the StudentHub@Derby when you arrive on site to request a card to be printed.
Should you require a student ID card to make the most of student discounts, you are eligible to apply for a student card through the National Union of Students.
These are available to all students in the UK or can be posted to a UK address.
New students, please email us at udolenrolment@derby.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)1332 594000 and choose option 4.
Continuing students, please email us at onlinelearning@derby.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)1332 594000 option 5.
Any student who completes a Bachelors degree, Masters or Postgraduate Certificate/Diploma will be invited to attend a graduation ceremony, so long as there are no outstanding fees.
Your award will be from The University of Derby and will state the name of the course that you studied, for example 'BSc (Hons) Nursing Studies'.
There is no reference to the mode of study on your certificate or your transcript.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/studying-online/quality-standards:
When someone wants to start running a course at our University, their proposals have to go through an intense quality assurance process called 'validation'.
It doesn't matter if it's an online course or an on-campus one, the process is just as strict.
During this process, the course is scrutinised to ensure it matches up to the high standard of courses that we offer at the University of Derby, and to ensure that it has the same level of academic rigour as all equivalent courses in the UK.
As with all higher education institutions in the UK, we are required to adhere to quality assurance processes that are set out by the UK government.
Our University is regularly inspected to ensure we are meeting these.
Please UDOL quality statement 2018 which confirms the quality and standards of our online qualifications and their comparability with campus-based qualifications.
All of our online qualifications are worth the same number of credits as their on-campus equivalent.
Your award will be from the University of Derby and will state the name of the course that you studied, eg BSc (Hons) Nursing Studies.
Your official certificate and your transcript will not say how you studied (on-campus or online).
If you are an international student, we do advise you to check before you enrol that the qualification you want to take will be accepted in your country.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/events/graduation:
Find out all you need to know about our Cathedral service at Derby Cathedral.
Find out all you need to know about upcoming Derby Awards ceremonies.
Find out all you need to know about upcoming Buxton Awards ceremonies.
Order replacement documents to verify your Higher Education achievements.
View our terms and conditions for graduation ceremonies.
Share your graduation day with us!

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/contact:
If you have a question about studying a short course you can contact us by email or phone:
For any enquiries regarding sport-related short courses please use the following email address to contact us at hpu@derby.ac.uk .
For any enquiries regarding the Discovering a Nursing Career in General Practice course please use the following email address to contact us: GPN@derby.ac.uk .
Opening hours (UK time) :

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/arts:
Develop your creativity or technical making skills in one of our short courses in the arts.
From digital and analogue photography to fashion and textiles
Unfortunately, we do not have any arts short courses running at the moment.
To find out more about our short courses, please email our Business Gateway team.
E: businessgateway@derby.ac.uk
Our Chandos Pole Street site in Derby houses an extensive range of specialist equipment for fashion and textiles courses.
We have first-class facilities for photography at our Markeaton Street site in Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/business-and-management:
Accelerate your career and update your skills with these professional courses in business and management.
Our executive education courses offer solutions to your business challenges, with learning methods that are tailored to suit the needs of your organisation.
We offer a range of courses to enhance knowledge in key themes such as leadership, AI, and sustainable business.
"It has been a pleasure to witness participants develop their knowledge and skills over the duration of the programme, in particular the application of theory to real scenarios and holistic thinking.
The feedback from the participants continues to be very positive as the programme goes from strength to strength." Simon Smith, Senior Lecturer and Programme Leader
We also offer a number of online courses.
If you choose to study a short course with us, you’ll get the same high standard of teaching as students on our degree programmes.
Our academic team are tackling business issues through their research across fields such as sustainable business, achieving excellence in global supply chains, and improving SME performance.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/education:
Our CPD (Continuing Professional Development) portfolio is designed with education professionals in mind, offering a variety of opportunities for you to maintain and enhance your skills.
With a range of sessions to choose from, covering key themes such as a teacher inquiry, attachment theory, primary mathematics and autism, we’re confident we can help you to develop professionally and personally.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care:
If you're seeking to build on your wealth of knowledge as a healthcare professional, we can offer you bespoke modules in a supportive environment.
We have modules to suit nurses , occupational therapists, hand therapists, radiographers, psychotherapists, and those working within complementary therapies.
In order to study what best suits your personal and professional needs, you can arrange for an individual consultation to discuss your options.
There are various options for your funding and study.
We have CPD modules at undergraduate and postgraduate levels (levels 6, 7 and 8), which have all been tailored to meet the needs of practitioners and managers working within the health and social care sectors.
View CPD modules
Our CPD offer includes online, distance learning and on-campus modules, so no matter what your preferred learning style or life commitments, you can find a study option that's right for you.
We also offer a range of study days for healthcare professionals.
There are options of creating bespoke course packages for your organisation, we can work together to provide you with a package that best suits you.
For more information on this please contact businessgateway@derby.ac.uk .
If you're interested in studying CPD modules with us, the first thing that you should do is speak to the Module Leader.
You can find out who the Module Leader is by speaking to our Reception Team.
They can be contacted by telephone on +44 (0) 800 001 5500 or by email at LBR@derby.ac.uk .
The Module Leader can help you to:
The Module Leader will also tell you which award (course) the module sits within.
It is important to find this out because if you decide to apply, you'll be asked to select the award for your module when you complete your online application.
If your query is about an online course the Module Leader will direct you to the appropriate team to discuss your circumstances and progress your application should you wish.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/sport-and-exercise-science:
Please note: We are not currently accepting applications for these courses.
To register your interest please contact businessgateway@derby.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/credit-bearing-courses:
These online courses are university credit bearing, which means they can be used to offset against another qualification.
This would reduce the number of modules you would need to study and the total cost of the course.
You can also use these courses to support your CPD requirements or simply to upskill.
Online learning has grown massively in recent years and at the University of Derby Online Learning, we are passionate about empowering the professionals of tomorrow.
We are constantly continuing to develop and find new ways to deliver our courses so our students can achieve and have the best experience with us.
Our online credit bearing courses will give you a taster of how our virtual learning works.
Our online courses go through exactly the same quality assurance as our on-campus courses.
High quality standards are an essential part of our university core values; every course we offer will always be worth your time and effort.
Don’t miss out on this great opportunity to develop your knowledge and skills further.
If you already have an offer to start a degree at the University of Derby, this online course will give you an IELTS equivalent which will allow you to progress to the University of Derby programmes.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/free-courses:
These free online courses are also known as MOOCs (massive open online courses).
MOOCs are short courses that are usually run free of charge by major learning providers to expand your knowledge of a particular academic topic or to help you develop a specific skill.
They are free to take part in and are open to everyone regardless of age, education level and location.
Free online learning has grown in popularity in recent years with MOOCs now being offered all over the world and are seen as a widely recognized way of adding extra credibility to your CV and education portfolio.
At the University of Derby, we continue to seek fresh and innovative ways to learn so that our students have the best choice of study options to meet their academic needs and personal circumstances.
Our free online courses make higher education accessible for everyone and allow you to experience how online learning at Derby works.
High quality standards are an essential part of our university core values; every course we offer, free or otherwise, will always be worth your time and effort.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/priority-skills:
This programme has now ended and a new series of courses for small and medium sized businesses is in development.
Find out more below.
The Advanced Skills Programme was part of the European Social Fund (ESF) High Level Skills programme which has now closed, and we are no longer able to receive applications.
However, we are currently developing a new series of online courses for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs).
The courses will provide an opportunity for staff to update their knowledge in an easily accessible and convenient way, even when working from home.
Subjects such as leadership and management are designed to support your businesses in striving forward during these uncertain times.
If you have a minimum of eight employees interested in one of our courses, we may be able to offer bespoke training for your organisation.
Please email our Business Enquiry Team to register your interest or discuss your requirements.
Whether it's support in upskilling an individual or bespoke training for a whole team, find out how other organisations have benefited from the programme.
We have a broad range of innovative and enlightening short courses - both on-campus and online.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/pre-sessional-english-for-academic-purposes:
Next course date
19th May 2025, 16th June 2025, 7th July 2025
Duration
5,8 or 12 weeks
Delivery
Tutored online learning
Location
Online
If you already have an offer to start a degree at the University of Derby, this course will give you an IELTS equivalent which will allow you to progress to the University of Derby programmes.
If you already have an offer to start a degree at the University of Derby and the required IELTS for it, there is still the opportunity to study the 5 week course to update your academic skills and get ahead for UK study and success on your degree.
The course will help you:
This course will enable you to improve your skills and knowledge in the following areas:
This course is taught online and depending on your level of English on entry, you will need to study for 12, 8 or 5 weeks.
If you pass this Pre-sessional English course at the level stated in your degree offer, you will be able to automatically progress to your degree at the University of Derby.
You will have achieved a minimum English level of CEFR B2.
You must be age 17 years or older to enrol on to this course.
Courses will only run if there is sufficient student demand.
Please note that our modules are subject to change.
We review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
This is a full-time course with 20 hours of study per week of which 12-15 hours of attendance of online classes are required alongside self-study.
It is a highly interactive course, with lots of small group work and discussion.
This will enable you to increase your confidence and learn from others.
If your required English level is 7, contact us and we can advise you on which length of programme would best suit you.
These fees will apply to any course studied between September 2025 and August 2026:
You will need to pay in full before you start the course.
Apply directly to the University.
For support with completing your application, view our guide to the application process .
You'll need to provide:
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees.
Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues.
Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please contact us and we will get back to you as soon as we can.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/working-with-vulnerable-people:
£875 (2024/25) ‡
27 January 2025
Course level
Level 6
Course credits
20 credits
10 weeks
The ability to identify and work positively with vulnerable people is a core requirement within the health and social care arena.
Managing and understanding the concepts of abuse, risk and vulnerability within both a historical and practical context is therefore a requirement.
There is a duty to assess and protect vulnerable service users.
Recent significant cases in the adult and child sectors have highlighted a lack of skills in identifying, assessing and managing risk.
In this course, you will cover a wide range of concepts including vulnerability, safeguarding, disability, inequality, poverty, mental health and substance abuse.
The course will also introduce you to the policy, legal and ethical perspectives surrounding vulnerability and teach you how to identify, assess and manage risk within frameworks and theories.
On successful completion of the course, you will be able to:
For this short online course, we recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports which will be handed in and assessed at the end of the 10 week trimester.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Once you’ve completed this course you may be able to offset the 20 credits towards our online Integrative Health and Social Care BSc (Hons) Top-Up .
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
UK/EU fee: £875
International fee: £875
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
UK/EU fee: £905
International fee: £905
Prices are correct for the year of entry shown.
These are subject to annual increase in subsequent academic years.
You will:
You'll also normally require one of the following English language qualifications:
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification.
For this course you will need at least one of the following:
We may accept other equivalent English Language qualifications with supporting evidence so please provide full details with your application.
Find out more about our English language requirements
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company.
Each translation must contain:
A list of approved translators can be found on the UK Government website

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/contact-us:
Do you have a research enquiry?
Submit your enquiry through the form below.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees/how-mphils-phds-work:
For an MPhil/PhD, you need to undertake independent and original research that makes a contribution to knowledge in your chosen field.
If you want to study for an MPhil/PhD at Derby, there are two options available to you:
Find out more about funding for your MPhil/PhD
You can enrol on an MPhil/PhD at four points during the academic year:
You will need to apply at least four months in advance of your intended start date.
If you are an international applicant and you need to apply for a visa, you will need to apply for an MPhil/PhD earlier.
Find out more about applying
You can now choose to study for an MPhil/PhD through on-campus study or online study.
However, online study may not be possible for all projects, for example, those that are lab-based.
The training, support and qualification you receive at the end of your study, will all be the same.
If you would like to undertake an MPhil/PhD online, please make it clear on your application.
When you undertake an MPhil/PhD, you are allocated a supervisory team who will support you.
This team consists of at least two academics who are experts in the field your research focuses on.
They will also be experienced in supporting postgraduate research students.
You will meet regularly with your supervisors - at least six times within each academic year, but often much more than this.
In the early stages of your MPhil/PhD, your supervisors will help you to refine your research project and produce a realistic research plan.
In the latter stages, they will provide feedback on what you have written, help you prepare for your viva voce (final oral exam), and help you disseminate your research.
You can also meet with a research-active member of staff from outside your supervisory team twice a year, for additional support and guidance.
You will develop your initial research project idea, either by yourself or with your supervisory team.
You will look at the main literature and authors on the topic, identify potential aims and objectives for your research, and consider an appropriate methodological approach, taking into account ethical and resource implications.
In this phase, you will work closely with your supervisory team to clarify your initial research ideas, refine your research question and identify the scope and boundaries of your project.
You will begin to develop your project methodology and critical reading and writing skills.
You will form a good working relationship with your supervisory team, who will help you to take an effective approach to record keeping.
They will also help you identify development opportunities to support your progress.
In this phase, you will be collecting data and undertaking critical reading and writing around the literature associated with the project, to build up your references.
You will be in regular contact with your supervisory team, either face-to-face or online and should be receiving regular feedback on your writing.
You will be taking part in development activities, such as skills sessions or conferences, both to improve your subject-specific knowledge and to improve your general skills e.g.
presentation.
In Phase 3, you will be completing an analysis of your research findings, writing this up into a thesis, proofreading it and polishing it, and then submitting it towards your MPhil/PhD.
You should now begin to look for opportunities to disseminate your research while working with your supervisory team to prepare for your viva voce — an oral exam, in which you will give a verbal defence of your thesis.
There are normally two examiners who will ask you questions about your research and how it has made an original contribution to knowledge.
After your viva voce exam, you may need to complete some revisions to your thesis before you can graduate.
You will also review the project dissemination strategy with your supervisors, to ensure all outcomes are disseminated and the potential impact of the research is realised.
It usually takes one year full-time or two years part-time.
If you would like to apply for a MPhil/PhD by Published Works, you should first discuss your suitability with a relevant member of academic staff (as with all research degrees.) You can then apply using the normal application process.
If you decide to design your own PhD project, you will need to write a research proposal that will form part of your application.
Before applying, you should review the critical literature in your sub...

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees/applicants:
We’re delighted that you are considering applying for an MPhil/PhD or MPhil at Derby.
Here is the process you need to go through.
Start your application for the University of Derby.
We would normally expect you to have a First or Upper-Second (2:1) honours degree from a UK university, and preferably a master's degree from a UK university, or:
If English is not your first language, we must also be satisfied that you have the necessary English language skills to undertake a research investigation.
Please note that English language certificates are only valid for two years.
You do not need to supply an IELTS certificate if you have completed a degree from a predominantly English-speaking country, as defined by the UKVI (UK Visas and Immigration) or if you have citizenship of a predominantly English-speaking country, as defined by the UKVI.
If you are an international student, you must have a valid UK visa to enrol onto a postgraduate research programme.
Our International Team is happy to provide visa advice .
Applying for a visa can be a lengthy process and your enrolment may be delayed if you don’t have it in time.
Please consider this when you are thinking about your start date.
If you are a non-UK/EU/EEA citizen, you may require an ATAS certificate to study at the University of Derby depending on your subject area.
For more information, take a look at the academic subjects on the gov.uk website .
Intake month
Deadline for Home fee status/UK applicants
Deadline for International applicants
September 2025
30 June 2025
19 May 2025
January 2026
14 November 2025
15 September 2025
Please check individual studentship pages for the deadlines.
You may also be interested in reading our University’s admissions policies .
It can take up to 12 weeks for a decision to be made about your application.
The process is as follows:
Once you have been offered a place, you will develop your initial research proposal and agree with your supervisory team on the approach you will take to achieve your MPhil/PhD.
You will provide a document which details the research proposal and forms the final evidence basis for the College to accept your application.
We will also send you information about enrolling at the University prior to your start date, whether you are enrolling on campus or online.
You will need to pay any fees before your enrolment can be confirmed.
If you are being sponsored, you must provide proof of sponsorship before you can enrol.
If you are an overseas applicant and we make you an offer, this will be a conditional offer subject to you:
When we receive the deposit, ATAS certificate and notification of the start date from you, we will then issue a Confirmation of Acceptance to Study Number, which you can use to obtain your student visa.
If your visa application is subsequently rejected, please check our admissions policies.
Please consider this when deciding your start date.
Our International Team is happy to provide visa advice or you can find out more about the student visa on the UK Border Agency website .
Once you have completed the admissions process, you will be invited to enrol onto your programme.
Enrolments dates are available on our Postgraduate enrolment FAQs page .
If you have any questions about applying, please contact us via email to phdadmissions@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees/faq-for-postgraduate-enrolment:
If you are a new student enrolling for the first time, or returning student, we understand that you may have several questions about what happens next and what you need to do and when, so we have put together a set of FAQs.
If you can't find an answer to your question, email us at pgrstudentoffice@derby.ac.uk .
Once we have issued your unconditional offer and you have confirmed acceptance, you will first receive an automated email inviting you to set up your student account and password ready for enrolment.
If you don’t receive the email by one week before your chosen intake date, please first check your spam folder in your personal email, or alternatively contact: pgrstudentoffice@derby.ac.uk .
Once you have set your student account and password, you will receive an email invitation to complete online registration.
Please follow the on-screen instructions.
You don’t need to select any modules.
After you complete online registration, you can proceed to make a payment or select Logout.
To pay your fees online, please use the following link to our payment page .
Your annual fees will be stated in your offer letter.
New students who enrol in January, March or June will have their first-year annual tuition fee pro-rated from the respective enrolment intake up to 31 July.
Please note that tuition fees are increased annually by the prevailing UK rate of inflation.
Depending on your intake and during the first year, your annual tuition fee payments are split as follows:
For any subsequent years, the default payment schedule will be: 25% in advance at enrolment, 25% by 1st November, 25% by 1st February and 25% by 1st May.
Once you have completed Online Registration, please send a copy of your sponsor letter on company headed letter to sponsors@derby.ac.uk For more information about the requirements of the sponsorship letter, please refer to our Tuition Fees leaflet available on our website.
After your loan application has been approved, you will be sent a letter with your payment dates or you can check them in your SFE online account.
As soon as you receive the email invitation to enrol, please confirm to us that you have successfully applied for a doctoral loan by emailing pgrstudentoffice@derby.ac.uk .
Once we have confirmed your enrolment, the University will notify Student Finance England/Wales within a couple of days, so they can release the funds to you, and then you can make your first payment towards your tuition fees.
Your loan will be paid directly to you in instalments over the academic year.
You will be responsible for using the money to contribute towards tuition fees and other expenses as you see fit.
For enquiries regarding payments or payment plans, this includes if you have a Student Finance England / Wales (SFE/W) doctoral loan and wish to amend your payment schedule to align with your SFE/W payments, please contact the Sales Ledger team either by email; salesledger@derby.ac.uk or call on 01332 592742.
You will need to email the Sales Ledger team in each new Academic Year to request/arrange your payment plan for that year.
Please attach a copy of your Student Finance payment schedule.
After your enrolment has been confirmed following your identification checks, your registration will be confirmed with Student Finance England.
This will allow for your loan to be paid - this is normally five days after your registration is confirmed after the start of term/intake.
The start of term/intake will be stated on any correspondence from Student Finance, and you will not receive any funding prior to the start of term/intake even if your enrolment has been confirmed.
If you do not provide a student support number at enrolment this may delay your loan payments.
For enquiries relating to alumni discounts, please contact the Student Records and Awards team; studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk
For enquiries relating to funding, please contact the Student Records and Awards team; studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk
If you require a visa to study in the UK, you will be sent an email asking you to bring your documents to the International Student Hub in Kedleston Road, Derby Campus.
If you have any questions, please email them on visa@derby.ac.uk .
We won’t be able to confirm your enrolment until this is completed.
The programme has specific intakes: September, January, March and June.
It might be possible to defer your enrolment.
Please send the details to pgrstudentoffice@derby.ac.uk indicating what is the status of your visa application.
In some cases, it may be possible to start the programme of studies as an “online distance learner” and transfer to “on campus” once you have received your visa and you are able to travel to the UK.
We will discuss your case with the College and confirm to you if this is possible.
Please send details of your circumstances to pgrstudentoffice@derby.ac.uk indicating when you are able to arrive in the UK.
In some cases, it may be possible to start the programme of studies as an “online distance learner” and transfer to “on campus” once you are able to travel to the UK.
Please send the details to pgrstudentoffice@derby.ac.uk indicating the reasons for the deferral and which intake you wish to defer to.
We will discuss your case with the College and confirm this to you if this is possible.
Once we have confirmed that you have completed all the steps for enrolment, you will be confirmed, and you will receive a notification to confirm this, including the details of the next central induction session.
We aim to start all new PGR students by the intake deadline, so please ensure you complete all enrolment steps before the deadlines indicated on our website.
If you have been awarded a studentship as part of your offer, once you have completed online registration, we will confirm your enrolment and send you a copy of your contract for you to sign alongside a bank details form.
As soon as you have read and signed the contract, please email the signed copy to pgrstudentoffice@derby.ac.uk
If you already have a bank account in the UK, you can complete the details in the bank details form and email it to sessional@derby.ac.uk – this information will be used to make your stipend payments every month.
If you don’t have a bank account in the UK, please email pgrstudentoffice@derby.ac.uk and we can issue an letter that you can present at a bank of your choosing, so you can open a bank account to receive your stipend payments.
Once your enrolment is confirmed, your studentship will be activated.
Payments are made in advance, normally in the last week of the month.
If you require a detailed stipend payment schedule for the year, please email sessional@derby.ac.uk
Please make sure that you have sent your bank account details to sessional@derby.ac.uk and a signed copy of your contract to pgrstudentoffice@derby.ac.uk
Once we have confirmed that you have completed enrolment, you will officially start your programme of studies.
Once we have confirmed that you have successfully completed enrolment, you will be granted access to PhD Manager within 24 hours.
Once we have confirmed that you have successfully completed enrolment, you will officially start your programme of studies.
We advise that you arrange to meet with your supervisors once your access to PhD Manager has been granted, so you can discuss your programme deadlines.
Once we have confirmed your enrolment, we will email you the details of the next central induction session.
For information about College-level inductions, please contact your supervisors.
Your enrolment will be confirmed when you have completed all the steps for re-enrolment: completion of your Annual Progress Report via the University of Derby Research System, completion of online registration and paid a minimum 25% of your annual tuition fee (if required) or provided a sponsor letter.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees/applicants/studentship-opportunities:
Our studentships, which are pre-defined research topics, provide funding and financial support for exceptional students looking to study for an MPhil/PhD at the University of Derby.
Dependent on the individual studentship, successful applicants may be awarded a bursary to cover the full or partial cost of their tuition fees for the duration of the degree.
A Postgraduate Research Studentship (PGRS) will be funded for three years.
In addition, for successful fully funded home/overseas applicants, you will also receive an annual, tax-free stipend to support with living costs (currently at £19,237 for 2024/25) which will normally be paid in instalments throughout the year.
This will not be the case for partially funded projects, please refer to the individual opportunity for details.
Overseas applicants are encouraged to apply for studentships but are advised to check the project details carefully to assess the level of funding they are eligible for, before submitting an application.
If you have any questions, please contact phdadmissions@derby.ac.uk .
Everything you need to know about how to join us for your PhD.
Discover your options if your research project doesn't have funding attached.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees/applicants/self-funded-phds:
Self-funded PhDs give you the chance to work with our established research academics in an area we have identified as a priority for research.
You will be able to select from a range of pre-defined research topics.
If none of the advertised opportunities are right for you, you can also create your own research project.
To do this, the project would need to be developed as a proposal and would need to be discussed with a potential supervisor before you apply.
This is to ensure your research area aligns with our research focus.
We recommend that you look at our research centres and groups for our current research areas and review our guidance on how to write a research proposal .
A PhD usually takes three years full-time and up to six years part-time.
For self-funded PhDs, there are a range of options that may be available to you to help you fund your PhD.
Contact the project supervisor(s) directly via the details on their staff profile, to find out more about project availability and how you can apply.
These are the self-funded PhDs available across our Colleges:
Our studentships provide funding and financial support for exceptional students looking to study a PhD.
Find out what the tuition fees are for MPhils and PhDs at Derby, as well as what sources of funding there are to help pay for them.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees/applicants/research-proposal:
If you decide to apply for a research project, you will need to write a research proposal, which will form part of your MPhil/PhD application.
Before creating your research proposal, we suggest that you read about the application process for MPhils/PhDs at Derby.
Before applying to study an MPhil/PhD, you should review the critical literature in your subject area and specifically in your topic of interest.
You should have a clear understanding of the current questions within your chosen topic; from this, you can identify the research question you want to investigate.
We recommend that you speak to a potential supervisor before creating your research proposal.
The supervisor will be able to provide initial feedback on whether your research interests align with research at our University.
Also, they can tell you if there are additional requirements, specific to their College, that need to be added into the research proposal template we’ve outlined below.
To search for a supervisor, take a look at our list of researchers , Colleges or our Research Centres and Groups .
To check if there are college-specific requirements for your research proposal, you can contact the Chair of the relevant College Research Committee:
When you have identified a potential research question, you need to prepare an outline research proposal, which should be a maximum of 1,000 words.
This should consist of:
The proposal is not fixed and may change after discussion with your potential supervisory team and as your research develops.
You should also prepare a personal statement (maximum 500 words) indicating:
Visit us and find out how you can succeed at the University of Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/education-courses/edd-doctor-of-education:
EdD
Part-time: 4-6 years
£3,300 per year (2025/26) ‡
Our Doctor of Education (EdD) has a broad appeal to those working within the field of education who wish to develop their skills in relation to their professional practice.
Our online Doctor of Education (EdD) programme is delivered by research active academics and supervisors who have expertise across a broad variety of educational spheres and regularly publish their work in leading journals.
The Doctor of Education will both support and challenge your thinking and perceptions based on the latest thinking and research within the field.
The programme centres on the cutting-edge educational research for which the University is renowned in the following areas:
Our staff conduct influential studies on a range of topics from early years to adult learning, and we provide consultancy for government, schools and the wider education sector.
This means your learning will be underpinned by innovative ideas which are changing the face of the education professions.
This is an intellectually challenging programme which will stimulate your professional thinking.
We will equip you to undertake a substantial, robust research project in the context of your own practice.
Directly relevant to your working role, your independent study enables you to create and interpret new professional knowledge, support innovative approaches and improve quality.
It yields significant benefits for your organisation and your own potential for further career development.
The first two years of the programme are designed to build your skills and confidence to engage in doctoral level study and to research your professional field.
Individual tutorials offer essential guidance to steer your progress and thought-provoking seminar groups enable you to share experiences with fellow students from a wide range of backgrounds.
This provides a firm foundation for your independent research during years three onwards as you develop your thesis with the support of a team of supervisors.
Thursday, 11 September 2025 12.00 - 13.00 During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
The teaching and research supervision phase are delivered entirely online.
The two years taught phase of the programme combine self-study with live seminars to enhance your learning.
You will be given access to the learning materials each week to complete the activities at your own pace.
To enhance your learning experience, you will have access to a broad range of learning resources such as discussion boards, interactive Padlets, and live tutorials.
Through the use of Blackboard Ultra, you will asynchronously engage with a variety of study materials, seminars and tutorials.
On the Doctor of Education programme, your academic skills will be formatively and summatively assess through a range of different tasks.
These tasks are carefully designed to ensure you have the necessary ability to produce a thesis of doctoral standard and length.
You will also have the opportunity to articulate and disseminate your professional expertise.
Over the course of the whole programme, you will undertake the following:
The EdD is a part-time online programme which can be completed in a minimum of 4 years, however typically it would take 6-8 years to complete.
The maximum registration period is 8 years.
To achieve your Doctorate of Education, you will need to complete one taught 60-credit module in year one, one taught 60-credit module year two and an Independent Research for Practice module (420 credits) from year three onwards.
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters.
The postgraduate taught 60-credit modules are therefore taken over the whole academic year (three trimesters) and we recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete 20-credits per 10-week trimester.
During the independent research phase of the EdD, you can schedule your work around your calendar to complete the programme at your own pace within the maximum 8-year registration.
As a Senior Lecturer in the Institute of Education, Dr Stothard works with masters and doctoral students in various fields pertaining to education.
In particular, he teaches and supervises doctoral student working towards a Doctorate i...
Lecturer in Education
My professional and research interest are in race, racism, antiracism and decoloniality in higher education, particularly working on such issues as closing the racialised degree awarding gap, fighting racial harassment on campus and sy...
Senior Lecturer in Childhood
Dr Marco Antonio Delgado-Fuentes is a Senior Lecturer in Childhood.
Marco works across various undergraduate and graduate programmes, Mainly in the MA in Education and conducting research studies in the area of international early...
Senior Lecturer MA Education
Senior Lecturer in Education Studies and MA Education
Senior Lecturer in Education
Connor Stuart
Our students choose this programme as a crucial part of their personal and professional development.
You will gain impressive skills in research, analysis, critical and strategic thinking which will enhance your performance in your current role while paving the way to further career opportunities.
The doctorate is often a stepping stone from a mid- career education professional to a more senior teaching and leadership roles such as, university discipline lead, senior lecturer, education consultant, director of training and development, senior curriculum specialist and instructional designer, and education policy analyst.
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for three years after you graduate, our Careers and Employment Service can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
You will usually hold a masters award in an appropriate academic field, and have significant experience of work within your professional practice (usually two years minimum).
You should have high levels of competence in English.
If necessary, this should be demonstrated by IELTS 7.
Your Research Proposal (containing the following detail):
The process of selecting Doctorate applicants is very competitive.
Please ensure you spend time reading on your topic area and existing research, interrogating the literature, and refining your proposal.
We are not permitted to comment on your proposal.
Do consider sharing your research proposal with an active research staff or colleague to seek feedback prior to submitting your application and proposal for the online EdD.
Please note: All suitable applicants will be interviewed.
UK/EU fee: £3,300 per year
International fee: £3,300 per year
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year.
However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis.
The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Please note that the instalment calendar for this programme is as follows:
Please note: that any costs incurred as part of your Research Study are not included within your course fees.
All applications will be reviewed by the University and suitable applicants will be invited to for an interview that will be held on Microsoft Teams.
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/health-social-community-work-courses/doctor-health-social-care-practice:
DPrac
Part-time: 4 years
The Doctor in Health and Social Care Practice (DPrac) online programme is ideal for registered health professionals working across a wide variety of health and social care environments (hospital, community, primary care, government, national organisations).
Our Doctor in Health and Social Care Practice (DPrac) has a broad appeal: students may be working in clinical practice, in a managerial role or in academia.
The programme is relevant to registered health and social care professionals who have practice experience and now wish to progress their career by studying and completing doctoral study.
Our students work in health and social care environments or academia, building from their established practice career to investigate an area that will contribute original knowledge and facilitate career progression.
This provides a firm foundation for your independent research as you develop your thesis with the support of a team of supervisors.
Although the minimum registration period for the programme is four years, doctoral study requires commitment; completing the programme over five to six years (with a maximum registration period of eight years) is more common.
To complete the DPrac Health and Social Care Practice, you will need to undertake the postgraduate taught (PGT) phase which entails two x 60 credit modules.
This is followed by the postgraduate research (PGR) phase of your doctoral studies where you will complete the 420 credit Independent Scholarship by working closely with your director of studies and supervisor to complete your research project.
The two years of the taught phase of the programme combine self-study with asynchronous interactions to enhance your learning.
You will be given access to instructional materials each week and complete the activities at your own pace.
Our online learning resources include multimedia resources, and live tutorials that are recorded so you can revisit them.
You will access all the study materials, seminars, and tutorials through our virtual learning environment.
This will enhance your learning experience, as you will learn both with and from your peers and the academic staff.
The programme is delivered by research active tutors and supervisors who have expertise across health and social care sectors, and regularly publish their work, meaning you will have access to the latest thinking and challenge your perceptions.
The programme draws on the cutting-edge health and social care research for which the University is renowned.
The University's Academic Themes demonstrate how research is a collaborative effort with individual postgraduate research (PGR) projects addressing one or more academic theme.
Our staff conduct influential studies on a range of topics across the health and social care sector and provide consultancy to external organisations.
This means your learning will be underpinned by innovative ideas which are changing the face of the health and social care professions.
Assessments provide a variety and range of tasks which go beyond the requirements of the academic essay.
These facilitate professionals such as yourself in articulating and disseminating your expertise.
The DPrac is a part-time online programme which can be completed in a minimum of 4 years, however typically it would take 5 to 6 years to complete.
To achieve your Professional Doctorate, you will need to complete two taught 60-credit modules in year one and year two and an Independent Research for Practice module (420 credits) from year three onwards.
During the independent research phase of the DPrac, you can schedule your work around your calendar to complete the programme at your own pace within the maximum 8-year registration.
Dr Alan R Williams joined the University as Academic Lead in April 2019.
He led the online nursing and health portfolio and since August 2022 leads the professional doctorate in the College.
Alan is a Registered Nurse (Adult and Mental...
Professor of Psychology
David Sheffield is a Professor of Psychology at the College of Health, Psychology and Social Care.
He is also Head of Research and Director of Professional Psychology Programmes at the University of Derby Online Learning.
He also super...
Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Caroline teaches a range of undergraduate and postgraduate modules on our Psychology programmes.
She supervises PhD students and is an active researcher.
Caroline's research is focused on two broad areas and she leads on research conce...
Senior Lecturer
Andrew is a Senior Lecturer in Nursing and Healthcare Practice based within the College of Health and Social Care.
Senior Lecturer, Psychology
Dr Fiona Holland leads the health and well-being pathway on the MSc Behaviour Change and also teaches on the undergraduate Psychology degree and on the MSc Health Psychology.
Fiona also leads on academic enterprise for the department, ...
The doctorate is often a stepping stone from a mid- career education professional to health and social care roles such as, becoming a director of services, nurse, midwifery or allied health professional consultant, senior academic role, or leadership position in a national or international organisation.
You should have a Masters or postgraduate award (or equivalent) in an relevant academic field.
You should be registered or accredited as a health professional with regulatory organisation relevant to your practice.
If English is not your first language you must have achieved an IELTS score of at least level 7.5
Do consider sharing your research proposal with an active research staff or colleague to seek feedback prior to submitting your application and proposal for the online DPrac.
The minimum registration period for the DPrac is four years, though it is more common as a part-time student to complete in five to six years.
Fees are payable each year, though there may be a reduction when you have submitted your thesis and awaiting examination.
Please note: that any associated costs (conference attendance, publication charges, field work, travel, laboratory access etc) related to your doctoral study are not included within your course fees.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/business-administration-doctorate:
DBA
£27,800 for the full course (2025/26)
Start dates
March, October
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
As an executive doctoral research degree designed specifically for business professionals, managers and practitioners, the Derby DBA will challenge you to take your skills and knowledge to the highest level.
It combines academic rigour with an applied approach based on your own professional practice.
The DBA attracts experienced professionals in senior and managerial roles who are keen to take the next step in their career development, to undertake impactful business research, and to add to the body of knowledge in their sector and profession.
Many of our students have already achieved masters qualifications and choose the DBA as an alternative to more traditional PhD programmes.
Flexibility is central to the DBA.
In the first two years, you will attend the University for scheduled taught sessions which are delivered in five short study blocks – three blocks in Year 1 and two blocks in Year 2 of your study- so that you can fit your learning around your work and home commitments.
Throughout your DBA programme, you will undertake your independent research project with the support and guidance of expert supervisors.
This structure makes the DBA an excellent choice for international as well as UK students.
You will benefit from being part of a dynamic research community where professionals from different countries, sectors and backgrounds can exchange ideas.
It is a chance for you to gain global perspectives and build international networks which will serve you well in your future career.
The world of business is changing – and our research is changing with it.
We aim to be at the forefront of the debate of how to build better business: the kind of business that works for everyone.
The DBA allows you to investigate an important business issue of your choosing in great depth and apply your knowledge directly to the workplace.
The taught stages of the course help you to engage with advanced critical analysis and finesse your research skills, including how to design research projects and how to communicate your findings.
You will learn how to synthesise ideas and concepts, drawing on the latest theoretical frameworks.
The independent research stage enables you to focus on a key challenge within your organisation or wider professional domain.
You will explore how to solve problems innovatively, drive change and deliver a significant impact.
Our current DBA students are researching issues which are directly relevant to their experience in the workplace, covering themes such as project management, risk management, business strategy, services marketing, public sector management, cross-cultural management, talent management, environmental sustainability and sustainable development, corporate social responsibility, big data and artificial intelligence.
You will be inspired and motivated by an academic team made up of influential researchers, respected authors and experienced consultants.
They are engaged in significant research projects and publish regularly to deliver fresh perspectives on the latest business trends.
Our Business and Management research is internationally recognised through the Research Excellence Framework (2014), and our expertise spans subjects as wide-ranging as behavioural economics, employee engagement, social media marketing, the green economy, industrial policy, supply chain management and corporate social responsibility.
As a DBA student, you can also draw on specialist knowledge from across the University, paving the way for you to pursue interdisciplinary research.
Unlike many other DBA programmes, you will be allocated a supervisor who is a subject specialist at a very early stage in your studies, while you are still completing the taught modules and well before you embark on your independent research project.
It means you will receive expert support in shaping your research proposal.
In addition, a leadership coach works with each DBA cohort to assist students with their continuing professional development.
Our Sustainable Business Research Cluster has developed a strong track record of researching how low-carbon and pro-environmental business responds to the clean growth agenda.
The DBA programme begins with two taught ‘Theory for Practice’ stages comprising five core modules including a negotiated module requiring you to undertake an applied research project agreed with your DBA supervisor and the module leader.
These modules build your skills in argument construction, critical evaluation, analysis and reflection, preparing you for greater learning autonomy as you progress.
They also enhance your research skills and familiarity with various research methodologies and methods.
The taught stage forms a core part of your doctoral training.
We also offer an optional module at the end of the taught stage of the programme if you wish to exit the programme with the MSc Business and Management Research qualification.
The ‘Independent research stage’ follows from the taught stage.
This stage of your DBA programme aligns closely with the doctoral progression milestones culminating in the final examination of your doctoral thesis via viva voice by the internal and external examiners.
Practitioner project (420 credits) – PhD thesis of 50,000-60,000 words
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus Discover your campus
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Doctoral level study requires a great deal of independent study, equating to around 20 hours per week.
The scheduled taught sessions occur in blocks throughout the first two years of the programme and you will engage in:
One-to-one tutorials, typically amounting to 10-15 hours per year, are arranged between you and your tutoring/supervision team.
You can access your tutorials via online, phone or face-to-face options.
You can also make the most of online resources through our virtual learning environment (Blackboard/Course Resources).
We encourage and support you to present your research to a wider audience.
Our annual research conferences – at both University and Business School level – are a unique opportunity to share your progress and findings, while hearing from fellow students and academics about their own business specialisms.
There may also be the chance to raise your professional profile by attending national and international conferences.
Assessments are designed to be broad, wide-ranging, flexible and innovative.
They facilitate your professional learning and allow you to produce work relevant to your own specialism.
The assessments will review your:
You must pass all the Theory for Practice taught stage modules in order to transfer to the independent research stage.
Assessment outputs include preparing a research progress review at the end of stage 2.
At the Independent Research stage, you are required to complete reports which act as progression milestones.
The final assessment for the doctoral award is through examination of your major practitioner project and a viva voce.
We provide additional support at this stage through mock viva voce examinations.
Throughout your work towards the DBA, tutors and supervisors will give you formative feedback which serves as on-going support and guidance.
Formal records of supervision meetings will also be kept to provide you with additional feedback.
Polina Baranova is a Senior Lecturer in Strategic Management.
Her research lies at the intersection of strategy, business and society.
In particular, she specialises in the development ...
Dr Elnerine Greeff lectures within the University of Derby's Business School, where she specialises in Marketing - both as her academic field and in support of businesses through various outreach prog...
Carley Foster is a Professor of Services Marketing and Head of the Centre for Business Improvement at the University of Derby.
Her work is widely published, has been funded by several organisations an...
Amanda Lee is a Senior Lecturer in Business & Management at the University of Derby International Business School.
Students choose to complete doctoral research for many reasons: you could be keen to take your professional development to the next level; to pursue applied research which has a meaningful impact in your workplace; or to add to the body of specialist knowledge about a particular professional area.
Whatever your ambition, the DBA adds prestige to your CV.
When you successfully complete this programme, you will have achieved the highest academic qualification and will be allowed to use the title of Doctor (please note that some countries accept doctoral awards in different ways).
Our DBA students are usually in full-time employment, undertaking research in their own work context, and can use their doctorate as a platform for further promotion to senior roles and an enhanced standing in their profession.
As an elite member of Derby Business School’s alumni networks, you will also be encouraged to maintain your links with the University beyond the DBA programme.
There is the potential to contribute to joint research projects and publications, become an associate lecturer or guest speaker, and support students following in your footsteps.
The programme seeks to admit highly capable individuals able to demonstrate motivation, interest and aptitude for doctoral level study with interests in business and management research.
Both home and international applications are encouraged.
Where English is not the first language:
Potential applicants are strongly advised to discuss the programme and alternative doctoral study options with the Programme Leader prior to applying to ensure a best fit in terms of personal, professional and career aspirations.
Please note fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis.
The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies Find out about funding your studies
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount Find out about the Alumni discount
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience.
Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career.
As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum.
However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Students should Apply directly to the University..
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/professional-doctorate-courses/doctorate-sport-exercise:
The Doctorate in Professional Practice (Sport and Exercise) aims to develop your ability to use applied research methods helping you to explore key aspects of your professional experience and current practice in meaningful and relevant ways.
We all know that professional practice can be a complex, messy and nuanced experience for sport and exercise practitioners.
We have designed the programme to explore innovative research methods that recognise and work with the complexity of practice.
We aim to equip you to be able to undertake projects such as:
Completion of the doctorate will set you apart from other professionals in your area.
On the programme, you will develop critical expertise that can enhance your career and sharpen your professional practice.
It will enhance your ability to influence thought and practice in your field and prepare you for more senior professional roles in sport or exercise.
The programme will also equip you to step across into a role within higher education.
The programme allows you to tailor your research to your own interests and will improve your knowledge and understanding of a range of research and enquiry methodologies and skills related to your profession.
By completing the doctorate, you will enhance your practice and make an original contribution or application of knowledge to your specialist field.
Additionally, we will help you develop your ability to communicate your thinking and research outputs to relevant professional or academic audiences.
To support you on your research journey, we have an experienced and passionate teaching team.
The team has extensive personal experience of professional practice across a wide range of sport and exercise disciplines including performance management, coaching, sport psychology, sport therapy, talent development and many others.
The team is passionate about supporting fellow practitioners to develop their understanding of their discipline and their craft.
In addition, programme staff have expertise to support you throughout your doctorate, as follows:
To complete the Doctorate in Professional Practice (Sport and Exercise), you will need to complete the postgraduate taught (PGT) phase which entails two x 60 credit modules.
These modules develop your research skills for independent doctoral research as well as providing opportunity to refine your research question(s).
In the first module, you will explore the literature relating to your chosen research area.
You will be supported to undertake a critical analysis of this and explore how it relates to professional practice in your field.
In the second module, you will refine your research question and critically consider research design, methods and the ethical implications of your research.
Alongside this, you will also be encouraged to critically reflect on your evolving identity as a practitioner-researcher.
The taught phase is then followed by the postgraduate research (PGR) phase of your doctoral studies.
In this, you will undertake an independent research project (within a 420-credit module) closely supported by a doctoral supervisory team (Director of Studies and second supervisor).
This project will culminate in the submission of your final doctoral thesis.
The online doctorate blends learning within a cohort of fellow professionals with independent research.
The postgraduate taught (PGT) phase (2 modules) is undertaken with a cohort of other learners before you move on to working independently.
However, even when you are working independently, fellow members of your cohort will be going on the same journey in parallel with you.
We will create Communities of Practice (CoP) across the programme where members of a CoP are looking at similar topics or research methods.
The peer-to-peer support that these communities offer is invaluable helping to build confidence and expand your support network.
When working with individual students, we utilise a coaching-based approach to support and supervision.
Our aim is to constructively challenge learners’ assumptions, perceptions and beliefs about practice, helping them to think creatively about future practice.
Throughout the programme, you will have support from the Programme Leader, module tutors and mentors.
The two years of the postgraduate taught (PGT) phase combines self-study with asynchronous interactions to enhance your learning.
You will access all the study materials, webinars and tutorials through our virtual learning environment.
You will be given access to our instructional materials at regular intervals, and you can structure the pace and timing of study to suit your own professional circumstances.
Your self-study will be enhanced with personal and group tutorials, webinars and online discussion forums.
In addition, you will be able to discuss ideas and challenges with students who are using similar research methods or following similar topics with the communities of practice.
We work to ensure that our curriculum is up-to-date and that your learning is current and relevant.
The programme will continue to evolve in response to the evolution of sport and exercise policy and thinking, both nationally and globally.
During the postgraduate research (PGR) phase, you will be partnered with a Director of Studies and a second Supervisor – their research expertise (in terms of topic or methods) will be matched to your research question.
You will undertake your research project under your supervisors' guidance prior to completing your thesis and viva voce (the oral examination).
Throughout your independent research, you will also be able to continue drawing on the communities of practice to benefit from the peer-to-peer support.
As a research student, you will also be able to access an array of webinars and tutorials held across a wide range of research-oriented topics via the University’s Postgraduate Researcher Development Programme.
This programme is undertaken through part-time online study.
It can be accessed from anywhere in the world and can be completed in four years.
The PGT phase covers years one and two whilst the PGR phase can be completed in years three and four.
Depending on the pace of your research, the registration period can be extended to a maximum of eight years.
The postgraduate taught 60-credit modules are therefore taken over the whole academic year and we recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete 20-credits per 10-week trimester.
Assessments provide a variety and range of tasks designed to facilitate professionals such as yourself in articulating and disseminating your research and expertise.
PGT phase
PGR phase
The programme will be a core driver of your personal and professional development.
You will gain outstanding skills in research, analysis, critical and strategic thinking which will set you aside from your peers.
This will serve to enhance your professional standing and open opportunities for you to progress in your professional career.
This might be through using your strategic skills and research in senior leadership and management roles.
Equally, you may look to become a recognised as an expert practitioner specialising in particular interventions, therapies or forms of client support.
Alternatively, following the Doctorate, you may wish to explore opportunities outside professional practice such as academic or research roles within Higher Education or research roles in other organisations and agencies.
You will usually have the following:
For this course, you will need to have IELTS level 7.5 or equivalent.
Please provide full details of your English language qualification with your application.
Have you already studied at another institution, completed a training course, or does your work experience appear equivalent to one or more modules of your chosen course?
If so, you may be able to translate this prior learning into credits towards your course modules, so you don’t have to study them again.
Further information about applying for credits for prior learning can be found in our recognition of prior learning section .
Students should apply directly to the University by using the 'Apply now' button on this page.
For support with completing your application, view our guide to the application process.
At interview, staff will explore the research proposal (see below).
A discussion will also be held with each prospective student to ensure that there is a clear and shared understanding of the expectations of the programme in terms of time commitment.
Applicants will need to assure the University that they have the time and support, both professional and personal, to allow them to meet the demands of the programme.
For your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Please ensure you spend time reading on your topic area and existing research and refining your proposal prior to applying.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees/pgr-transfer-process:
The transfer must be considered with a view to the further research necessary to bring a research investigation to completion.
The further research required should be significant and not normally less than the equivalent of one year’s full-time studies.
Eligible applicants will only be permitted to enrol during our set intakes (January, March, June or September).
It is advisable that applicants apply no later than 12 weeks ahead of their desired intake.
Applicants wishing to transfer with their current Director of Studies should start their application after their Director of Studies has commenced employment at the University of Derby.
The University will not normally accept students wishing to transfer to the University who have effectively failed to satisfy requirements for equivalent awards elsewhere.
It is also normally inappropriate to consider transfer if a student has already:
a.
submitted their thesis or critical appraisal elsewhere, or b.
been examined elsewhere, or c.
is in or about to enter the writing up stage.
All prospective students are required to apply via our application portal .
Before submitting your application, all prospective transfer students must contact their current institution, requesting the following information:
Progress to Date:
Applicants must also write their own progress-to-date statement, commenting on their progress to date, milestones completed and milestones remaining.
Please also detail any equipment, facility hire, or other specialist consumables you may need access to.
Once this has been completed, please refer to the scenario that best reflects the circumstances of your application to transfer to the University of Derby.
Scenario 1: I wish to transfer my studies to the University of Derby with a new Director of Studies who is an existing staff member at the University.
If you have not done so already, we recommend that you identify a potential supervisor prior to submitting your application.
The supervisor will be able to provide initial feedback on whether your research interests align with research at our university.
If a member of staff is interested in supervising you, a formal interview will be arranged with you after your application is submitted.
In addition to meeting our standard entry requirements , you will need to provide the following documents at the point of submitting your application.
Following submission of your application including all required documents, your application will be sent to the relevant College for consideration.
If your application is successful, you will be invited to attend a formal interview.
Scenario 2: My current Director of Studies is commencing employment at the University of Derby, and I wish to transfer with them.
Following submission of your application including all required documents, your application will be sent to your Director of Studies who will work with the College to identify a co-supervisor for your research project.
You will then be notified whether your application to transfer is successful.
For both scenarios, please ensure that you have read the information below regarding funding, student visa implications, and enrolment information.
Fees & Funding: There may be potential financial and administrative implications of withdrawing from your current UK university.
The funding agreement you have with your current institution may not necessarily be applied at Derby.
You can find general fees and funding information at Fees and Funding for MPhils and PhDs.
Specialist Facilities and Equipment : If you currently have access to specialist facilities or equipment at your current institution, we cannot guarantee that the same specialist facilities or equipment can be provided at the University of Derby.
Please discuss this with your potential supervisor.
Overseas applicants on an existing UK Student visa: If you are an overseas applicant who is currently studying at a UK University on a Student Visa, we would highly encourage you to contact our International Student Hub at ISH@derby.ac.uk for guidance on applying for a new Student Visa and UKVI requirements regarding your proposed transfer to study to University of Derby.
Please note, there could be other costs associated with your transfer, such as applying for a new ATAS certificate or additional International Health Surcharge (IHS) payments.
Enrolment:
You will need to withdraw from your current institution as a condition of your enrolment at the University of Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees/applicants/fees-and-funding-for-mphils-phds:
Find out how much you should expect to pay for your PhD or MPhil, and what sources of funding you may be able to apply for.
The following tables show the annual fees payable for the academic year 2025/2026.
The fee will increase each year, to the prevailing UK rate of inflation.
*The PhD (Traditional) route is discontinued and therefore no longer available for new applications.
Studentships Doctoral stipend minimum level for 2025/26: £20,780 per annum.
Self-funded students must pay between 25% and 100% of the fees at the first enrolment depending on when they join the University.
The full annual tuition fee will then be applied from 01 August for all subsequent years for returning students.
Returning students, and new students who enrol in September, are charged an annual tuition fee that covers from 01 August – 31 July.
Tuition fees are normally charged in four instalments: 25% at enrolment in August, 25% in November, 25% in February and 25% in May.
To secure a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies), international students are required to pay a non-refundable £8,000 deposit.
The deposit is deducted from their tuition fees as they become due at enrolment.
If a student's visa application is refused, then the deposit will be refunded in full.
For further details, please refer to your offer letter or contact phdadmissions@derby.ac.uk
For more detailed guidance on fee payment requirements at enrolment (for new and returning students), please refer to Postgraduate Enrolment FAQS or contact the Research Student Office .
PGR Students should submit an Authorised Break of Study (ABS) request via PhD Manager.
Please refer to the PGR Regulations for further guidance on taking an Authorised Break from Study.
Once an Authorised Break from Study request is approved on PhD Manager, the annual fee will be adjusted as per the table shown.
Any adjustment to tuition fees that results in an excess will be carried over to the following academic year.
If there are outstanding fees on the account following the fee adjustment, Students will be liable to pay this upon their return to study and before they are permitted to re-enrol.
All PGR Students are granted a 25% tuition fee reduction following approval of their Intention to Submit for examination.
The adjustment to your fees will be made following approval by the Chair of the College Research Degrees Committee.
PGR students that have not submitted their final thesis for examination by their Target Submission Date are classed as Post Target Fee students and continue to pay tuition fees until thesis submission.
Full-time students have their fees changed to the part-time annual rate (pro-rata).
For all PGR students, the annual fee is payable up to the submission of the thesis for examination.
Following thesis submission, tuition fees will be adjusted to the cut-off point detailed in the table shown.
Following the fee adjustment, there may be outstanding fees still payable for the current academic year, or excess on the account where a refund may be due.
Students must check their accounts via UDo or contact University Finance Department for further information +44 (0) 1332 592742 , salesledger@derby.ac.uk .)
If a PGR student withdraws from their studies, they may be eligible for an adjustment of tuition fees.
This may be a refund of fees paid or a reduction in fees due.
Fee adjustments are calculated with reference to the table shown.
Withdrawal requests must be completed and approved on PhD Manager.
If payment is not made in accordance with University policies, the University reserves the right to take action to recover the debt.
If a standing order payment is not made, the University may require payment of the total amount outstanding, not just the missed payment.
Any student that has an outstanding debt to the University will not be re-enrolled for subsequent academic years.
Students with outstanding debt to the University, are not entitled to graduate or receive their certificate.
Find out more information from the University Finance Department
Once you have found your project or developed your research proposal, you will need to think about how you intend to fund your studies, unless your project has funding attached.
You should start to do this before you apply.
There are several funding options that may be available to you.
In some cases, you may need to have an offer from us before you can apply for funding, and you will need to have your funding approved before you can enrol, so check the deadlines for your application and enrolment .
Sponsored students must provide proof of sponsorship before they can enrol.
This can either be an original letter of authorisation on company-headed paper or a purchase order.
The sponsor letter should indicate if the sponsor is willing to pay the tuition fee for a specific year or for the full period of study.
Please note that all such letters must be addressed to the University of Derby, signed, and must include the student's name and ID number.
The sponsorship letter must indicate who is paying and the address the invoices should be sent to.
The sponsor must pay the full annual tuition fee within 30 days of the student’s enrolment .
Sponsors will be sent an invoice for each student sponsored.
Invoices should be paid promptly, or the student could be suspended from their studies.
Instalment payments are not available to sponsors.
If the sponsor is not resident in the UK or does not have a UK address, then payment of the fees must be made in full at or prior to enrolment.
If a sponsor defaults on the payment of fees, liability for the debt will rest with the student.
For other methods of payment, please contact the University Finance Department or call +44 (0) 1332 592742 .
Should the financial sponsor request annual reports on the student's academic progress, these will be supplied directly to the sponsor at the end of each academic year by the student’s supervisory team and a copy will be sent to the Research Student Office.
Students who have previously graduated from a Higher Education programme at the University of Derby are eligible for a 10% alumni discount on their PGR studies (this amount is subject to annual review).
Students should contact their respective Director of Studies if they believe they are eligible for a fee discount or fee waiver.
All fee discounts and waivers are renewed annually in August and are valid for one year only .
Where fee discounts or waivers are applicable, it is the responsibility of the student to ensure that the request is submitted on time, following the appropriate process, authorised and presented when enrolling and included in their Annual Progress Review report.
Financial support to staff to achieve Doctoral outcomes - Permanent and fixed-term staff members may be eligible for a reduction in fees if they meet the required criteria.
Follow the guidance available on iD/People Experience and Culture (HR) pages (Supporting Accredited Programmes of Study) * login required *.
If the criteria is met, staff must complete the staff sponsorship online form .
Please refer to the offer letter and Studentship/Fee-Only Bursary contract for details about the duration and level of tuition fees covered by the contract.
From the moment the contract ends, students will be liable to pay fees until thesis submission.
If you are under 60 when you start your course, you may be able to borrow up to £28,673 to study a doctoral-level course, such as a PhD or EdD (for courses starting on or after 1 August 2023).
This loan is available whether you are studying full-time or part-time, but you will need to meet certain eligibility criteria .
Interest is charged on the loan and, of course, you need to pay this loan back, but not until:
You can find out the most up-to-date information about doctoral loans including how to apply on the Gov.UK website .
The University of Derby has a postgraduate research development (PGR) fund to support research students.
We make funds available at different points throughout the academic year and award them on a competitive basis.
The fund will support students with training, events and conferences.
If you are a UK student and have a disability that affects your ability to study, you may be entitled to Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA).
This can pay for the additional support that you may need for university.
You can find out more about DSA on the Gov.UK website , including eligibility stipulations, how much you could get, and how to apply.
Non-academic organisations can help fund research at the PhD level, in collaboration with the university hosting the study.
The following organisations offer this type of funding:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/degrees/case-study-callum-carpenter:
Callum Carpenter’s life has changed immensely since joining the University of Derby, where he is studying for a Master of Philosophy (MPhil) degree in Wildlife Conservation.
A keen wildlife enthusiast with a passion for primates, Callum is part of a small team utilising a groundbreaking method that could play a crucial role in safeguarding the critically-endangered West African chimpanzee from escalating threats and the risk of extinction.
Led by Dr Joana Carvalho , a lecturer in Spatial Ecology and Bioscience at the University of Derby, and Environmental Science lecturer Alessia Bani , the team are using a range of traditional and emerging methods including the use of eDNA from air and soil samples to non-invasively detect the number of West African chimpanzees.
Callum, who moved to Derby from his home in Brighton, said: “Since I began my MPhil project with the University of Derby in September 2024, my life has changed so much; I have met a fantastic group of friendly and supportive staff and fellow students who have made me feel very much at home while I am undertaking my project.
“Additionally, studying at the University of Derby has provided me with the opportunity to conduct and oversee fieldwork in the little-known, yet beautiful and lively, Guinea-Bissau.
“Being able to lead the data collection for this important project studying critically-endangered chimpanzees has been an unforgettable career-building experience.
I feel very lucky and I’m feeling fortunate to be on this amazing journey.”
When an organism such as a chimpanzee moves through the environment, it constantly sheds genetic material, including skin cells, mucus and/or faeces.
The DNA trace from this is known as eDNA.
It can be collected from a range of environments and is being increasingly used to detect the presence of species and assess biodiversity, most commonly by taking samples from water.
The University of Derby is a leader in using eDNA research to trace endangered or invasive species.
In 2019, this technique was used to chart the presence of species including the white-clawed crayfish and the freshwater pearl mussel in the UK.
Callum, who has been inspired by conservationists Sir David Attenborough and Jane Goodall, is delighted to be involved in further advances of eDNA methodology.
He said: “This latest project specifically is looking at the use of new techniques for monitoring chimpanzee populations and perhaps creating new ‘best-practice’ guidelines for researchers who are seeking to monitor and calculate great ape populations.
“This basically means that we’re using a few different methodologies – for example ‘nest counting’ - counting chimpanzee night nests along a line transect’, camera trapping, audio monitoring and eDNA sampling to detect chimpanzees and compare which methods work best.
“As we’re studying all parks in Guinea-Bissau we’re hoping to create a country-wide estimate of their population, too, as they’re critically endangered.”
View Helping protect chimpanzees from extinction video transcript
Callum studied for a BSc in Zoology and an MRes in Primate Biology, Behaviour and Conservation before opting to join Derby to ‘really grow as a person’.
“The opportunity to study at the University of Derby seemed, for me, like the natural next step on the ladder,” said Callum.
“My role in this project brings so much more responsibility and depth to the work and has allowed me to really grow as a person.
With the help from my amazing supervisors in Derby, I am managing the day-to-day field operations of the project here in Guinea-Bissau.
“Being part of this project has given me so much opportunity to further my career path in this field and there are always new ideas for papers we can publish or side projects we can do with the data we collect.
“I am seven months into this project, and I have experienced two rounds of independent fieldwork, working with locals here in Guinea-Bissau, collaborations with other researchers who are experts in their own areas of the primatology field as well as with international conservation organisations and other postgraduate students here at Derby.
“My MPhil project has really opened a lot of doors to make new connections in the field and learn the ins-and-outs of primate research.
“I would 100 per cent recommend Derby as a place to study; I feel like the only real limit to how far you can take a project or research idea in Derby is yourself.”
Callum says that he has received fantastic support from supervisors Dr Joana Carvalho and Dr Alessia Bani, but he has been inspired, too, by other University of Derby students.
He said: “Dr Carvalho and Dr Bani have given me a lot of guidance and support throughout my studies, and that in itself has made me more confident in my ability.
It pushes me, too, to be a better independent researcher.
“I also get a lot of inspiration from the team of postgraduate students we have here at Debry, who are working on various eDNA projects.
Everyone is so proactive and invested in using new technologies to aid in conservation projects – from primates to coral reefs, we are pushing new ground every day.”
Join our close-knit research community and undertake a research degree that will intellectually challenge you in an area you feel passionate about.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/researchers/research-students:
Matthew is presently working on providing personal safety solutions incorporating cybersecurity, the Internet of Things, and machine learning techniques.
Dana is a final-year postgraduate research student at the College of Arts, Humanities, and Education, Department of Education.
Taye is a postgraduate research student within the College of Business, Law and Social Science.
Muhammad is a Computer Science PhD student.
He began his career as Software Engineer and later taught Computer Science after completing a masters.
Jawwad is a Postgraduate Research Student in the College of Engineering and Technology.
Kirsty is a second-year PhD student researching intergenerational physical activity, especially the relationship between grandparents and grandchildren with an aim of increasing physical activity levels in these populations.
Artur Wlodarczyk is a Postgraduate Research student who is pursing a Ph.D.
with a specific focus on supply chain decarbonisation.
Jaskaran started working at the university in 2015 and, over the years, she has been involved in several research projects and teaching modules within the Psychology department and Centre for Compassion Research and Training.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apprentices:
An apprenticeship is a work-based training and education programme that allows employees to earn as they learn.
On-the-job training is delivered alongside degree-level academic learning, helping apprentices work towards a nationally recognised qualification.
An apprenticeship is a fantastic option if you're looking to develop new, future-focused skills, gain real-world experiences and further your career.
But that's not all, there are lots of reasons to choose an apprenticeship including:
View The University for Degree Apprenticeships: How to become an Apprentice and what you need to know video transcript
As apprenticeships are paid for by the employer, you'll initially have to find employment with an organisation who are offering an apprenticeship.
You'll then be able to apply for the apprenticeship through your employer.
There are a range of qualifications to choose from depending on your previous experience and career aspirations.
If you're interested in starting an apprenticeship, you must first be employed.
You can search for companies currently offering apprenticeship vacancies on the government's website , or you can browse our featured vacancies.
We would recommend doing research on local organisations too so that you know what opportunities are available and when their application window opens.
In the meantime, work on your CV and cover letter to showcase your suitability.
Focus on what makes you stand out to employers, for example, extracurricular activities such as Duke of Edinburgh.
This particular example demonstrates that you're a team player and have strong communication skills.
You can explore our apprenticeship courses and apply for your desired course through your employer.
You'll need the support of your employer to pursue an apprenticeship.
Have a chat with them about the benefits an apprenticeship will have on your personal and professional development, but also how it can enhance your workplace performance.
Your employer can contact the Apprenticeship Hub ( apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk ) for further information, advice and guidance or visit our dedicated Employer webpages .
These are equivalent to five GCSEs and two A-Levels respectively.
View Nursing Associate Mo Falase's journey video transcript
A higher or degree apprenticeship focuses on combining academic study with work-based learning, allowing apprentices to develop the skills, knowledge and behaviours set out by the apprenticeship framework in a real-life setting.
Academic study is required and is comparable to a Level 4 HNC equivalent or a bachelor's degree.
In contrast, a HNC equivalent or bachelor's degree focuses on full-time or part-time academic learning.
'Off-the-job' training is defined as the time spent by the apprentice away from the employment setting (or within the employment setting but outside of their usual duties) that directly relates to the apprenticeship framework or standard.
What counts as 'off-the-job' training?
Our apprenticeships require a combination of on-the-job learning as well as on-campus study at the University of Derby.
Apprentices are required to attend on-day or block release from their employment.
Molly Burrows shares her experience of working towards the Degree Apprenticeship in Manufacturing Engineering.
Rachel Atkin has recently become a Registered Nursing Associate by completing a two-year Higher Apprenticeship.
This is her story.
From pulling pints to pulling criminals off the street.
PC Connor Denning has spoken of his delight at being one of the force’s newest recruits, as he swap the bar for the beat.
Managing Director Owen is studying our Senior Leader Degree Apprenticeship to develop his senior leadership skills to support him in his role at Code 56.
Kamil Ogrodowicz is following in his father's footsteps by embarking on a career in the mineral extractives industry.
He's undertaking the Mineral Products Technician Higher Apprenticeship.
Charlie decided to study the Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship as a way to develop his knowledge whilst gaining valuable practical experience.
Alex Lawrence talks about his experience as a procurement apprentice.
Kully Boden explains how the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship has benefitted her.
Aged 40, Harminder Rai-Mottram switched from a career in Motorsport to the Police Force with an apprenticeship.
Shannon-Louise Huxley tells us why she chose to study the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship.
In the third year of her Mineral Products Technician Higher Apprenticeship with Aggregate Industries, Sarah Howarth reflects on her experience so far.
Emma Macukiewicz completed the Nursing Associate Higher Apprenticeship and now works in Australia as a Registered Enrolled Nurse (equivalent to the UK's Registered Nursing Associate).
JCB employee, Ioan Evans, is partway through the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship.
Hear his experience of the programme so far and of being a JCB apprentice.
School business professional, Stuart Greensmith White, is currently undertaking the Senior Leader Apprenticeship.
It's already given him new opportunities and helped him to secure a promotion.
David Kinsey works for Derby City Council as its Head of Highway Asset Management, Grounds and Arboriculture.
He's recently completed the postgraduate-level Senior Leader Apprenticeship.
After teaching a class of 14 to 15-year-olds with multiple learning difficulties, Samantha was introduced to a completely different side of teaching, sparking the start of a new career path.
Tarnia Lefevre, Nursing Associate apprentice was awarded the ‘Nursing Associate Trainee of the Year’ at the Student Nursing Times Awards in 2021 for her dedication to helping and advocating for the de...
With a passion for Performing Arts, Lois completed our Level 6 Teacher Apprenticeship, specialising in Performing Arts.
Lois has been offered multiple positions as an Early Career Teacher.
Georgia was looking to pursue her passion and retrain as an Operating Department Practitioner - just as her employer was looking for people for its Operating Department Practitioner Apprenticeship.
When teacher Steffi Ward decided she needed a career change, our Mental Health Nursing Apprenticeship gave her the perfect opportunity.
Josie Bates explains her journey through her apprenticeship and describes how the MSc Nursing (Adult) course has benefitted her.
Patrick Challen explains what the Materials Science Technologist Apprenticeship entails and how it has helped his career.
Abigail Harris has always wanted to be a nurse, she explains how she was able to start her MSc Nursing (Adult) because of her passion for patient care.
Read about Bryde's experience of doing a leadership and management apprenticeship with the University of Derby.
Find out why Josh Rice loves apprenticeships so much, and how they have helped him in his career so far.
Apprentice Nuclear Submarine Fitter at Rolls Royce, Mohammed Khan's interest in problem solving led him to study a Level 3 Advanced Technical Apprenticeship.
Overcoming challenges: a journey to Chartered Manager status case study.
Before beginning her apprenticeship journey, Anna was a healthcare assistant in A&E during Covid-19, an experience that kickstarted her ambitions to become a healthcare professional.
Nursing apprentice Rachael Bullivant shares her journey through some of the hardest times of her life but never giving up and achieving her dreams.
Katie’s journey through the Material Science Technologist Degree Apprenticeship is a testament to the power of combining academic learning with real-world experience.
Ryan McGrath shares his remarkable journey of perseverance, personal growth, and success through the Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship (PCDA), a path that tested his resilience and rewarded ...
Starting as an Assistant Practitioner, Abdi's scope of practice was initially limited.
However, through the radiography pathway, he gained valuable hands-on experience, allowing him to expand his resp...
James is a Nuclear Engineering Degree Apprentice at Rolls-Royce, gaining valuable hands-on experience while advancing his academic knowledge.
Now a Student Nursing Associate working in a community healthcare setting, Lisa is studying towards her Nursing Associate Foundation Degree at the University of Derby.
Matilda is a Police Constable with Derbyshire Constabulary, currently completing the Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship (PCDA) at the University of Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apprenticeship-vacancies:
We work with local and national employers, including high-profile organisations such as Rolls-Royce, the NHS and Severn Trent to deliver recognised qualifications that will help you succeed in your chosen career.
We'll highlight apprenticeship vacancies on this page - please note that all applications for these vacancies must be done through the employer.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/nuclear-skills-academy:
The Nuclear Skills Academy is the first of its kind and aims to sustain nuclear capability within the UK’s submarines programme by creating a dedicated pipeline of talent at the start of their careers.
Based in Derby at the iHub, the Nuclear Skills Academy is a partnership between the University of Derby and Rolls-Royce supported by industry and education experts, including the Nuclear Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre , the National College for Nuclear and Derby City Council .
This ensures new apprentices have access to the best courses and mentors throughout their apprenticeship.
Find out more about the Level 3 Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering Technician Apprenticeship
Find out more about the Level 3 Pipe Welding Apprenticeship
Find out more about the Level 4 Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering Technician Apprenticeship
Find out more about the Nuclear Scientist and Nuclear Engineer Degree Apprenticeship
Find out more about the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship
Apprentice Nuclear Submarine Fitter at Rolls Royce, Mohammed Khan, has always been fascinated by how things work.
His interest in problem solving led him to study a Level 3 Advanced Technical Apprenticeship, which has provided him with the skills to excel in his role.
Rolls-Royce Submarines has announced plans to open a new academy dedicated to nuclear training within the city.
In partnership with the University of Derby.
A new Nuclear Skills Academy has been opened today by Rolls-Royce, with support from the University of Derby.
Rolls-Royce Submarines Ltd celebrated the launch of its new Nuclear Skills Academy at an event in the House of Lords.
The University of Derby has joined the National College for Nuclear (NCfN) as an Approved Provider to deliver high quality qualifications in support of the nuclear sector.
A partnership between the University of Derby and Rolls-Royce Submarines Ltd focused on developing nuclear skills and experts of the future has been recognised at a top industry awards ceremony.
The Educational Affiliate Scheme supports universities and Further Education establishments to deliver high quality nuclear education courses to future nuclear professionals.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/levels-of-apprenticeships:
An Intermediate Apprenticeship is the equivalent of five GCSEs at grade A-C.
Our range of Intermediate Apprenticeships are available at our Further Education College, Buxton and Leek College .
An Advanced Apprenticeship is the equivalent of two A-levels.
Our range of Advanced Apprenticeships are available at our Further Education College, Buxton and Leek College .
Higher Apprenticeships are employer-led programmes focused on developing the skills particular sectors require.
A Higher apprenticeship is a work-based course which includes the award of a foundation degree or equivalent level qualification.
Our degree apprenticeships bring together the best of higher and vocational education and provide the equivalent of a full bachelors degree.
We work with excellent local and national employers and professional bodies, including Rolls-Royce and the NHS, to deliver a qualification that provides you with both the hands-on and academic learnings you need to be successful in your chosen profession.
You will be employed throughout your apprenticeship, spending part of your time with your employer and part of your time at university.
All tuition fees are covered by your employer.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/what-you-need-to-know-about-apprenticeships-with-andy-dowling.php:
I see apprenticeships shaping the future workforce in two areas really.
So first, it's the early career side of things.
Or future talent.
So lots of employers now are looking at that skills gap and bringing in young talent from the age of 16 onwards through T levels, lower level apprenticeships all the way through to degree apprenticeships.
So there's that early careers piece but also the upskill element as well.
And that's vitally important now.
So actually somebody who's been in role for a long period of time can benefit from actually going on an apprenticeship.
The degree element is great.
Gaining a degree and gaining the professional body recognition as well.
So typically if you're studying on an apprenticeship, you go through a thing called an endpoint assessment that are done by a professional institutes who want want to make sure you're making an impact back to that business as well.
In doing so, the benefits to an employer investing in apprenticeships are.
So first thing is they're going to get somebody, up to sort of 4 or 5 years, specially on a, on a degree apprenticeship.
So that individual is really going to get to know the business, make a lot of work connections there.
They're going to develop their own knowledge, skills and behaviours.
So that individual is going to be learning skills, applying them back to the benefit of the business.
It's amazing.
Some of the apprentices that I've worked with over the years are on so many interesting projects that take them all over the world as well.
Applying for an apprenticeship is quite straightforward.
First and foremost.
Actually, it's a job role.
So you are applying direct to an employer.
An apprentice would normally look at applying for a vacancy in October November time.
Most vacancies are in the autumn for the following September, so they would go on to that employer's website.
They would see the apprenticeship that's available and they would apply normally through their website.
I would recommend going on to the UCAS website because actually UCAS now you can you can apply for degree apprenticeships via that mechanism.
Attend schools and colleges careers evenings.
Lots of employers now are putting on events as well.
There are lots of opportunities out there, but you do have to work very hard to get one.
Back to Apprenticeships

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apprenticeship-courses/senior-leader-apprenticeship:
Level 7
24 months
Blended learning
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Face-to-face sessions will be delivered in two-day blocks.
This Level 7 apprenticeship offers apprentices an in-depth personal and professional development programme designed to transform them into confident and informed business leaders.
Apprentices will gain a broad knowledge of business management, covering topics such as organisational strategy, financial performance, managing operations and delivering customer value, with the option to progress from the Postgraduate Diploma to our MBA.
On successful completion of the programme, apprentices will be awarded an apprenticeship certificate from the IFA (at pass, merit or distinction) subject to their successful completion of the End Point Assessment (EPA).
Additionally, apprentices may be eligible for Fellowship of the CMI or ILM.
In addition, apprentices have the opportunity to achieve a Post Graduate Diploma in Management (at pass, merit or distinction), derived from the first 2 stages of the University of Derby MBA Professional programme.
The programme curriculum and structure is designed to enable learners to undertake a level 7 Senior Leader apprenticeship that includes the opportunity to achieve an PG Diploma (non-mandatory) in Management (derived from the MBA Professional ).
All apprentices will undertake the learning activities associated with the modules for the PG Diploma.
Prior to commencing the formal programme delivery, all apprenticeship learners will undertake an initial assessment (see admissions section), including a skills scan, this will highlight areas of experience and potential areas for development.
The information from the skills scan will inform the Individual Learning Plan for each learner and contribute to the portfolio building.
An induction programme will be undertaken by all apprentices, which will include preparation for study at L7.
This is of particular importance given that it is anticipated that some apprentices are likely to have been out of formal education for a time, given their employment status and position.
Induction activities will also include the processes, procedures and structure of the apprenticeship standard.
The below modules are all related to the apprenticeship course.
Apprentices will be awarded the PG Diploma after successful completion of the illustrated modules (total 120 Credits), there is a step off award if an apprentice decides not to complete the full programme:
To successfully complete the apprenticeship,  apprentices must successfully complete the End Point Assessment (EPA).
Prior to undertaking the EPA apprentices must pass through the EPA Gateway as specified in the apprenticeship standard.
Owen has always been motivated to improve and grow his own professional leadership development.
When he came across the Senior Leader Degree Apprenticeship, he knew it had to grab the opportunity.
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes?
Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Your apprentices will:
You must currently be in paid employment of at least 30 hours per week and your employer must cover the costs of the apprenticeship.
Employers usually set their own selection criteria and entry requirements and we can work with them on this.
However, typically an applicant for Senior Leader might be expected to have a recognised bachelors-level degree - such as a BA, BSc or BEng - or the equivalent, plus management experience.
The additional fee to top up to the MBA Professional qualification will be funded separately by either the employer or apprentice
The cost of this apprenticeship is £14,000, but we will consider individual agreements, depending on student numbers and your involvement - If you pay into the Apprenticeship Levy, this funding will be used.
Generous government subsidies are also available that reduce the fees for SME's to under £800!
Apprentices will need to apply through their employer.
Employers can find out more by contacting the Apprenticeships Hub - please see below for contact information.
Academic Manager, Matthew Bromley is your primary contact for the Senior Leader Apprenticeship.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/aquatic-research-facility:
The space has been designed for dedicated research in animal behaviour, welfare and disease to help fill the gap in zoo and aquarium conservation research and houses tadpoles, reef corals, freshwater mussels and Malawi Cichlids – a species of African fish.
The facility will allow students, staff and project partners associated with the University of Derby to answer real world issues associated with marine and freshwater systems.
This allows us to design studies with a high level of replication, ensuring any findings are valid and robust and can then be utilised by zoos, aquariums and conservationists for developing management strategies aimed at improving welfare and husbandry for a wide variety of different organisms around the world.
This is coupled with the work undertaken in our project partners institutions with allows our students and staff to work on larger organisms as well, such as otters and penguins for example.
“Such a facility allows us to design studies with a high level of replication, ensuring any findings are valid and robust and can then be utilised by zoos, aquariums and conservationists for developing management strategies aimed at improving welfare and husbandry for a wide variety of different organisms around the world.” Dr Michael Sweet, Lecturer
View Sea Life Centre Partnership video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/studios-at-markeaton-street-architecture-and-product-design-studios:
Our dedicated Architecture studio contains a variety of equipment.
Our creative spaces at Markeaton Street are used for lectures and seminars, one-to-one sessions, group work and presentations to employers.
The studio contains a wide range of resources and facilities including a modelling area containing computers with design software, an A3 scanner, 3D printer, drawing boards and modelling tables.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/artificial-patients:
Providing realistic medical training, our Clinical Skills Suite has a number of high quality artificial patients from individual limbs to technically advanced simulation dolls, which can be programmed to provide different clinical training sessions.
SimMan is a portable and advanced patient simulator for team training.
It has realistic anatomy and clinical functionality and provides simulation-based education to challenge and test participants' clinical and decision-making skills during realistic patient care scenarios.
SimBaby is an advanced infant simulator for team training with realistic anatomy and clinical functionality and allows learners to practice and perfect their skills in a risk-free environment.
Nursing Anne is an efficient, effective, flexible mannequin for clinical training in women's health, obstetrics, post-partum, wound assessment and care, and general patient assessment and care.
The key features of Nursing Anne are:
Nursing Kelly is a mannequin designed for scenario-based training of the care and management of a wide variety of in-hospital patients.
The key features of Nursing Kelly are:
The key features of Resus Anne are:
The key features of Little Anne are:
They key features of Little Junior are:
The key features of Baby Anne are:
They key features of the blood pressure training arms are:
The key features of Nursing Kid are:
If you would like further information or you would like to request a booking for this facility, please email us or call us on +44 (0)1332 592326 .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/sound-light-live-event-auditorium:
As a student on one of our Entertainment Engineering courses, you will study ‘how it works’ - exploring the underlying mathematics and electronics, together with sound, lighting and video technology, acoustics, Computer Aided Design (CAD), power distribution and communication technology.
You will also practise ‘how to work it’ – developing professional skills in lighting design, sound engineering and event management.
You’ll work with industry standard equipment thanks to the support of AC Entertainment Technology.
Students on the courses have had the opportunity to work on major University events, such as the Christmas Carol in the Atrium and Team Derby Badminton home games as part of the NBL League televised on Sky Sports.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/bioscience-superlab:
Opening in 2025, our state-of-the-art Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab will transform learning and research for students, staff, and researchers in fields such as Biomedical Science, Human Biology, Biology, Zoology, Forensic Science, and Environmental Science.
These facilities will offer real-world, sector-relevant practical experiences in areas like haematology, immunology, histopathology, microbiology, molecular biology, genetics, cell and tissue culture, and microscopy.
The Research Lab is directly connected to the Bioscience Superlab, allowing the spaces to be used in tandem.
Both labs will house cutting-edge technology that enhances learning and prepares students for their careers.
These environments are designed to foster innovation and creativity, encouraging the exchange of ideas while supporting independent work, group collaboration and the simultaneous running of multiple experiments.
Students, academics and researchers will benefit from increased opportunities for teamwork and the chance to conduct advanced research projects.
The new Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab expand upon our recent investment in the OMICS Facility , which opened in March 2023.
Together, these facilities create a wealth of opportunities for students to become future-focused graduates, equipped with the skills needed to thrive in their fields.
Our Bioscience Superlab is a large, fully-equipped, open lab space designed to facilitate both teaching and research simultaneously.
Check out the video below for a sneak peek of this innovative space:
View Bioscience Superlab video transcript
The Superlab will enable students to develop practical, employable skills throughout their studies such as critical analysis, teamwork, leadership and technical skills, as well as problem solving and time management.
With access to top-tier equipment and a collaborative learning environment, students will connect across disciplines and deepen their understanding of a wide range of scientific fields.
This unique space will significantly boost employability and career prospects for our graduates.
Additionally, the Superlab will support undergraduate and postgraduate research, offering opportunities for students to explore areas of personal interest through independent project work.
Professor Kathryn Mitchell CBE DL , Vice-Chancellor of the University of Derby, said:
“As an applied university, it is imperative that our students have the opportunity to gain practical skills through high quality learning and teaching in industry-standard, cutting edge facilities.
“The new Super Lab aligns with the University’s Strategic Framework by ensuring our students develop the skills employers require, thereby enhancing graduate employability and contributing to the economic growth of our region and the wider skills agenda.
Biomedical Science is one of the University’s six key academic themes, so this funding will enable us to further develop and grow in this area.”
The Research Lab is a state-of-the-art bio-safety Class II (BSL-II) facility that aligns with the University’s Biomedical and Clinical Science theme , driving world-class research to promote healthier living, improve rehabilitation, and tackle global health challenges such as cancer, diabetes, and dementia.
Co-located with the Bioscience Super Lab, the Research Lab provides an exceptional environment for master’s (MRes and MPhil) students, doctoral researchers, early-career researchers (ECRs), and academics to work with advanced equipment and technologies.
The space includes three main areas:
• Research Lab: Equipped with cutting-edge tools to support innovative research • Laser Lab: Housing a confocal laser scanning microscope • Tissue Lab: A shared resource for establishing and maintaining cell cultures.
This dedicated facility is designed to elevate the quality of clinical work by minimising contamination risks and enabling impactful research.
It supports the generation of high-quality pilot data, aiding successful grant applications and allowing the University to undertake a greater number of high-level projects.
Beyond supporting individual research projects, the Research Lab will play a vital role in advancing the University’s strategic goals.
It will enhance Research Excellence Framework (REF) outcomes, improving league table positions and attracting QR funding.
The facility will contribute to increasing postgraduate research (PGR) completions while fostering the development of early-career researchers within the Biomedical and Clinical Science theme.
Additionally, it will strengthen the University’s capacity to engage in consultancy projects and forge strategic partnerships, while also providing significant value for undergraduate students, encouraging their progression to postgraduate studies.
Together with the Bioscience Super Lab, this facility with cultivate a thriving scientific community at the Kedleston Road campus, enabling collaboration and innovation that cements Derby’s reputation as a hub for impactful research and academic excellence.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/britannia-mill-studios:
Take a look at some of the facilities that Britannia Mill Studios are home to:
The Printmaking Studio is a shared resource which combines multi-disciplinary print processes.
Traditional print processes are often combined with digital processes to create modern hybrid printmaking.
Students can experiment with large-scale plaster and ceramics projects in workshops housed within the studios and BA (Hons) Fine Art students have dedicated studio spaces for their projects.
The dance studios are used by Therapeutic Arts courses for practical drama and dance sessions.
Students are supported by the technical service team to gain hands-on experience and experiment using industry standard equipment.
Britannia Mill houses modern studio spaces for courses like BA (Hons) Interior Design and BA (Hons) Illustration, a dedicated art and design library, studio spaces for exhibition installations and music rehearsal rooms for Therapeutic Arts students.
Find out more about the Britannia Mill site.
Explore our accessibility guide by AccessAble for Britannia Mill Studios .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/computing-laboratories:
Computing courses are based at our Markeaton Street site, where we have dedicated computing laboratories, including open-plan software development studios, a networking laboratory, a virtual reality and cross reality lab.
All our computing labs at our Markeaton Street site contain dual-screen, multiprocessor computers equipped with a variety of industry-standard commercial and open-source software.
Our specialist facilities includes our CAVE lab which contains specialist data visualisation hardware and a 270-degree 3D projection setup.
Our cross-reality (XR) lab provides specialist games and visualisation hardware for mixed-course games development.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/ofgs-facilities:
Our Crown Court is located at our One Friar Gate Square site , a modern and iconic building in the heart of Derby’s vibrant city centre that creates the perfect environment for innovative and engaging teaching.
Our full replica Crown Court features contemporary technology and will give you practical learning opportunities and allow you to develop and hone your skills.
Activities such as moot court – mock hearings in front of a judge – will challenge you intellectually and make sure you are “work ready” for a successful career in the legal sector or other professional careers.
Our Law , Criminology, Policing , and Social Sciences students are based at One Friar Gate Square .
If you are studying Forensic Psychology you could study modules in the courtroom.
Explore our accessibility guide for the courtroom by AccessAble .
“The court room definitely helps with the mock trials and the mooting and it definitely gives you practical experience.
It may be tremendously hard work but it's a lot of fun.” Sam Amer LLB (Hons)
The Crown Court offers unique opportunities for businesses to engage in practical learning experiences.
Our state-of-the-art courtroom, equipped with contemporary technology, provides an immersive environment ideal for honing essential skills.
Businesses can leverage this space for tailored activities such as moot court sessions, simulating mocking hearings in front of a judge.
For more information about hiring this space, make an enquiry .
Derby Law School is a leading centre for the study of justice in the UK.
Our courses will inspire, stretch and challenge you.
You can become a specialist in Commercial, Corporate and Financial or Human Rights Law or take a general Law pathway.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/custody-suite:
Our Custody Suite is located at our One Friar Gate Square site, a modern and iconic building in the heart of Derby’s vibrant city centre that creates the perfect environment for innovative and engaging teaching.
Our Custody Suite has been designed to replicate the facilities that you would find in a modern-day police station, and allows our students to practise what they'll be doing in their future careers.
It features a booking-in desk, a cell and interview rooms.
Activities such as the booking-in process (including searching, signing electronic documents and reading rights) can be practised in this facility.
Our interview rooms have video links to a classroom which allows whole classes to review and feed back with peers, a vital part of training.
Head of Policing Tony Blockley explains the uses and benefits of the Custody Suite for our students.
View Custody Suite video transcript
Businesses can harness cutting-edge facilities for a variety of training and developing purposes in our custody suite.
Our facility provides a realistic and immersive environment, offering businesses the opportunity to conduct hands-on training sessions in a controlled setting.
We spend a lot of time in the custody suite practising procedures.
I've recently just led my first interview, which was amazing, and it was because of the facilities here.
I was able to learn and familiarise myself with the setting and procedure beforehand.
A career in policing demands skill, responsibility, leadership and initiative, together with a genuine desire to make a difference to society.
We’ll take your passion and help you match it with the skills to succeed.
Our intellectually challenging courses will equip you with the knowledge and skill for many career fields that demand high levels of professional expertise.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/dance-studio:
Our dance studio is housed within the Kirtley Building and comes with floor to ceiling mirrors and also a sprung floor.
As a student studying BA (Hons) Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing, BA (Hons) Dance and Movement for Wellbeing or MA Dance Movement Psychotherapy, you will get the opportunity to put your skills into practice in this facility.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/derby-theatre:
We are one of the only universities in the country to own and run a professional producing and learning theatre.
As a Theatre student, you can experience what it’s like to perform and work in a real theatre and learn by working alongside professionals on top-quality theatre performances.
There are also opportunities for graduates to develop their own theatre companies mentored by the Derby Theatre team.
Derby Theatre is in the Derbion Centre and has been acknowledged as a pioneer by the Arts Council, which recently gave us additional funding for a three-year pilot programme to establish a new "learning theatre" model.
Derby Theatre’s vision is to stage artistically and critically acclaimed live theatre and educate the next generation of theatremakers in a professional environment, as well as providing multiple leisure and learning opportunities for Derby’s diverse community.
To find out more about the work that Derby Theatre do outside of the University, please visit their YouTube channel.
As a University of Derby student, you’ll get access to £5 student tickets on 100s of performances at Derby Theatre.
Just book using your University of Derby email address to qualify.
To see what’s on, go to the Derby Theatre website .
View Derby Theatre access guide

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/diagnostic-imaging-suite:
Our students can gain hands-on experience using the Fujifilm Advanced Visionary X-ray Suite, the first of its kind to be installed in a university in the UK.
It is equipped with the latest technological developments in both X-ray image acquisition and X-ray image processing.
The University has recently invested into a new cutting-edge X-ray suite to provide the next generation of radiographers the most advanced skills.
The Fujifilm Advanced Visionary X-ray Suite is designed to improve the preciseness of X-ray imaging while reducing the operational dose rate, which is better for patients.
The equipment represents a significant investment for the University as we continually look to improve our existing equipment, essentially future-proofing our training facilities for students.
The equipment can produce high-quality diagnostic images but it also has increased functionality to provide a number of image acquisition types including dual energy subtraction imagery, digital tomosynthesis and ‘virtual grid’ software.
This combination means we are able to offer significant training opportunities, continued professional development events for qualified staff and students, as well as providing a platform for future clinical and academic research collaborations.
The University also launched a new expanded Ultrasound Simulation Suite which features an additional three new units to help increase capacity for simulation.
The new equipment, which cost a further £250,000, was funded by Health Education East Midlands to support sonography trainees in the region.
If you would like further information or you would like to request a booking for this facility, please call us on +44 (0)1332 590500 .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/digital-design-hub:
The Digital Design Hub is a student facility based at Markeaton Street, and allows students to get hands-on practical experience and knowledge of using industry standard equipment.
The Digital Design Hub offers students the unique opportunity of getting hands-on experience using industry standard equipment and machinery.
Students from a wide range of courses are encouraged to experiment with the equipment to further develop their creative ideas, whilst increasing their knowledge and practical skills.
Our team of technical experts have a wealth of knowledge and are always on hand to help and advise with any projects.
Our industrial digital embroidery machine can stitch up to 12 colours in any one design, and has 200 types of stitches including text.
Students will learn how to convert illustrator files to stitches, using industry standard software.
It's also possible to applique and laser cut your designs onto larger pieces of fabric.
Laser cutting can be used by students from a wide range of courses.
Students can make business cards, cut letters, create prototype packaging nets and different products.
Textile Design and Fashion students can use this equipment to produce their own cut out designs on fabrics, create decals for screen printing, as well as many other creative applications.
The Mimaki fabric printer prints directly onto specially prepared natural fabrics, such as silk, cotton, linen and canvas.
We stock a range of fabrics which can be purchased from our on-line shop, once you've made a booking.
You can print samples or lengths of fabric, as well as individual large scale imagery.
With this process you first print onto paper, and then heat transfer your image or design onto sublimation-friendly surfaces which can be bags, mugs, placemats, aluminium and chromolux.
You can also produce large pieces of printed fabric using this process.
Students from a wide range of subject areas such as Graphic Design, Illustration, Product Design, Interiors, Costume and Set Design, Textiles, Fine Art, Fashion and Photography will find this a useful resource for their coursework.
The UV printer prints directly onto the flat surface of an object.
There are a wide range of materials that this printer will print onto for prototyping, such as wood, metal, plastic, stone, slate, acrylic, leather, PVC, tiles, card, and many other flat surfaces, all up to A3 size.
This printer delivers a high quality finish, and can print white and clear, which means it's possible to print onto black or dark coloured objects.
Our Roland VS-540i printer can print onto a wide range of different vinyls which students can use to produce decals, stickers and t-shirt vinyls.
These can then be applied to a wide range of surfaces for both indoor and outdoor use.
Our Epson wide format printers are used in a variety of ways from printing screen printing positives to high quality photographic images.
Students are encouraged to have a hands-on approach, as with all the equipment in the Digital Design Hub.
We have a wide range of papers from 120gsm paper to high quality cotton Innova photographic paper, which can be purchased through our on-line shop after you've made a booking.
We also have a large scale vacuum press for mounting your printed images.
With the perfect binder you can soft bind A4 or A5 pages together with a hot glue to make a book.
Illustration students often use this method to make their own illustrated books.
All students are welcome to use this equipment once they've had an induction.
All students are welcome to use any of the equipment in the Digital Design Hub, but you will need to arrange an induction first.
You can organise this by emailing the Digital Design Hub at ddh@derby.ac.uk .
Once you've been signed off as a competent person, all you need to do is book a time slot , buy any necessary materials from our online shop , and arrive at the DDH at your allotted time!
For more information please contact us by email at ddh@derby.ac.uk or call 01332 593598 .
Print onto our transfer paper then heat transfer your image or design onto fabric.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/electrical-and-electronics-laboratories:
As a student on one of our Electrical and Electronic Engineering courses based at our Markeaton Street site, you’ll learn and carry out experiments in our specialist laboratories dedicated to this area of engineering.
Our Electrical and Renewable Energy Lab contains state-of-the-art equipment to investigate different methods of harnessing energy from wind, wave and solar.
Alongside practical work in the labs, you’ll learn through a mixture of laboratory work, lectures and tutorials.
Our labs include a range of test equipment and computers with the latest simulation software, state-of-the-art equipment to investigate different methods of harnessing energy from wind, wave and solar, and a multi-channel sound lab containing 32 loudspeakers.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/fashion-and-textiles-studios:
Our Chandos Pole Street building contains new specialist facilities for Fashion and Textiles .
These include light and airy studio spaces as well as industry-standard equipment and design facilities.
At Chandos Pole Street, you can use our purpose-built centre for 3D fashion product development.
This houses an extensive range of specialist equipment including:
You can also use our industry-standard computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) programs for our specialist machinery including:
At Markeaton Street you can also use our Digital Design Hub which has many specialist digital Textile Print equipment including
At Britannia Mill Studios, you will find our Printmaking Hub, where you can screen print onto paper and fabric as use our dye facility.
Our Chandos Pole Street building opened in September 2016 and covers 1,100 square metres of space.
As well as open-plan studios and industrial textiles (weave and knit) spaces, Chandos Pole Street also has tutorial and breakout areas and technical and academic staff offices.
Explore our Fashion and Textiles facilities
View Chandos Pole Street access guide
View Fashion and Textiles at the University of Derby video transcript and audio description

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/film-and-tv-studios:
You can use our Markeaton Street site’s specialist studios for film, television and photography work.
We also have post-production editing suites and Mac suites and we’re well equipped for production and post-production in 16mm film and high-end digital video technologies.
View Film and Media at the University of Derby video transcript and audio description

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/financial-markets-lab:
We offer direct use of financial data, information and analytics in a dedicated trading room which provides a simulation of what it’s like to work on a real trading floor in the financial district.
Our Financial Markets Lab highlights our commitment to delivering the very best experience for our students, giving them an edge in a competitive global jobs market once they graduate – demonstrating that they can quickly contribute to any employer’s business.
Find out more about our Economics and Finance degrees.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/forensic-laboratories:
Our suite of forensic facilities, situated at the top of the North Tower, house specialist equipment allowing you to perform a range of molecular techniques from chromatography to heavy metal analysis.
The forensic science suite includes a Forensic Teaching Facility Laboratory, Speclialist Light Room and Analytical Suite, each of which house specialist equipment for the examination of evidence.
Forensic Teaching Facility
Specialist Light Room
Analytical Suite

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/forensic-training-facility:
Our state of the art Crime Scene House is dedicated to supporting your studies, offering a stimulating learning environment for you to explore the dynamic world of Forensic Science.
The facility offers seven replica domestic and commercial scenes, a blood spatter room and fully panoramic CCTV and audio.
Our facility boasts seven unique crime scene environments.
Each of the scenes have been carefully designed to provide individually realistic learning spaces, in which to investigate evidence and criminal activity.
The scenes include:
Having access to varying scenes will prepare you for the incredibly diverse crime scenes that will emerge throughout your career.
The facility also allows students to work in dedicated break out spaces and training classrooms to support individual investigations.
You'll receive the very best training and advice from lecturers and visiting police forensic trainers, we’ve installed state of the art digital surveillance throughout the facility and in each of the crime scenes.
This equipment includes two-way audio recording and feedback, providing real time monitoring from a control room.
Our Crime Scene House will support learning normally associated with routine laboratory examinations, including the realistic consideration of evidence development and identification, evidence recording and evidence preservation.
Let us help you fuel your passion for a career in Forensic Science.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/glasshouse:
Our glasshouse is used for keeping plants from a diverse range of habitats from deserts to tropics.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/human-performance-unit:
Utilising the state of the art sport science facilities within the newly developed sports centre, the Human Performance Unit has been established to provide expert sport science services to sports clubs and individual athletes from beginners to elite performers.
The Human Performance Unit (HPU) is a dedicated space focused on providing sport science and coach development services to coaches, individuals and teams wanting to enhance their performance.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/image-reporting-suite:
The suite is kitted out with 15 reporting workstations which benefit from PACS and RIS systems installed on and will be used by students on the Pg Cert Image Reporting programme, as well as students studying on the Pre-Registration Radiography and Ultrasound courses.
The Image Reporting Suite was funded by a successful bid for funding from Health Education England which costed over £100,000 to renovate.
The Image Reporting Suite enables our pre-registration students to gain valuable image interpretation skills as well as helping those on our PG Cert Image Reporting hone their image reporting skills.
The development of reporting radiographers is an initiative that ultimately means faster diagnosis for patients and is a key part of the NHS Cancer Plan.
The Image Reporting Suite houses 15 reporting workstations, all of which have Diagnostic Quality Display monitors (6MP) as well as a Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS) and Radiology Information System (RIS) system which allows reporting students to view and report images as they would in a clinical department, and replicating clinical workflow.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/immersive-suite:
Our students can gain experience using our Immersive Interactive Simulation Suite which combines innovative technology, virtual reality, interactive 3D graphics and audio content to provide you with a creative multi-sensory learning space.
Our new Immersive Interactive Simulation Suite combines innovative technology, virtual reality, interactive 3D graphics and audio content to provide you with a creative multi-sensory learning space.
You can simulate many different healthcare practice environments so you can experience and respond to real-life situations in a safe environment.
Benefits to you:
View Nursing Facilities: Immersive Simulation Suite video transcript and audio description
The suite can be used to cater to the needs of businesses seeking to enhance their training programs.
Equipped with advanced immersive technologies, including virtual reality and simulation tools, the suite provides a versatile environment for businesses across various industries.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/insectary:
Our insectary houses many different species of insects for you to examine and learn about.
It is also used by our Forensic Science students to investigate how they can assist in a forensic investigation.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/library:
It goes without saying that as a student, you’ll spend a lot of time using libraries.
Ours are well-stocked with books, journals, multimedia and archive material, and well-equipped with technology to support your studies.
But importantly, they are also pleasant places to work.
We’ve made sure our libraries are light and airy spaces, which feel welcoming and contemporary.
They are open throughout the year, with extended hours during the busiest times.
The main library is at Kedleston Road and is open throughout the year, with regular opening until midnight and 10pm at weekends.
To make it easy for you to access the materials you need, you can also request books to be collected from Britannia Mill and Chesterfield via 'click and collect' library book lockers.
There are also libraries at University of Derby - Buxton, providing study space, learning resources and enquiry services specifically for our FE students.
The library also provides 24/7 access to digital resources to support your learning, which includes tools to assist with research and access to other digital materials.
If you’re studying off-campus, we provide virtual enquiry desks, support materials and guides online.
Take a look inside our library at the Kedleston Road campus.
View Kedleston Road library tour video transcript and audio description
Explore our accessibility guide for the library at Kedleston Road by AccesAble .
Whether you're a current student, staff member or just visiting one of our libraries, head over to our Library webpages for more information about our library services.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/makerspace:
Open to all students at the University of Derby the Makerspace is a student-led workshop based at our Markeaton Street site.
There is a large range of tools in the Makerspace that you are able to use.
The facility is run by students, for students.
Once you have been inducted to use a piece of equipment you will then be able to book and use it for your future projects.
The Makerspace is open to any University of Derby student, regardless of what course you study.
It can be used for personal projects as well as coursework, so if there's a prototype you've always wanted to make, or you have an idea you would like to bring to life then The Makerspace can help.
Students, faculty, alumni , and staff are the driving force behind Derby's vibrant maker culture and community.
Time and again it is clear how Makerspaces foster student success by supporting the development of confidence, perseverance, collaboration and innovative and imaginative student projects.
For that reason, it is important to foster and strengthen the maker community across campus.
Hands-on education changes the way students learn and transforms the way they think, particularly in today's innovation-driven world.
Makerspaces prioritise unrestricted making, stewarded by community members who educate new users in safe making practices.
Our 60-watt CO2 laser cutter is the main workhorse in the Makerspace.
It can cut through wood, plastic and many other materials.
It is the quickest way to manufacture something and it's interesting to watch it working.
The Makerspace has multiple 3D printers for fused deposition modelling (FDM) manufacturing and rapid prototyping.
Our main FDM printers are Creality Ender3 Pros , but we also have lots of printers that the students have built themselves.
Whether you are soldering up a printed circuit board, adding lights to clothing or troubleshooting a faulty device, you can do it in the Makerspace.
We have a wide range of electronics equipment including soldering irons, power supplies, multi-meters and oscilloscopes.
With our small PCB mill you can make your own circuit boards for electronics.
Or perhaps you may want to engrave your name onto some metal with the larger milling machine.
We also have a range of hand and power tools that can be used to shape most materials for your projects.
Our members work together to define, and practice, better ways to make an impact through design.
The Make Impact Consortium is for universities, companies and public agencies who understand that technological innovation is about people, and who value the importance of joining a like-minded community for mutual learning and benefit.
The Make Impact Consortium regularly hosts innovative design and making challenges to engage its students through community building and social awareness.
Student teams design, model and develop computer-aided draughting (CAD) solutions around a theme.
University of Derby students have participated in all of the design challenges so far and finished second place in the 2020 Covid-19 challenge.
The Make Impact Consortium is led by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) with eight other founding members: Fontys University (The Netherlands), Texas A&M University, University of Derby (UK), University of Michigan, University of Cincinnati, Universidad Francisco Marroquin (Guatemala), Al-Ahliyya Amman University (Jordan) and Applied Sciences University (Jordan).

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/markeaton-street-workshops:
The workshops at Markeaton Street include a motorsport workshop, mechanical and manufacturing engineering workshop, wood workshop, metal workshop and crafts workshop.
The Markeaton Street workshops are used for subject areas such as Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture, Built Environments, Engineering and Art and Design .
Explore our accessibility guide for the Markeaton Street workshops by AccessAble .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/media-loan-hub:
The Media Loan Hub is our equipment store and you can use it to book out cameras, lighting and sound equipment.
All our cameras, video cameras, microphones, mixing desks and lighting and sound equipment are stored at our Media Loan Hub in Markeaton Street .
As a student, you will get your own personal login and can book equipment out, free of charge, for when you need it weeks in advance.
Money is always being invested in new equipment so we make sure you are using the most up-to-date technology on the market.
You can email the Media Loan Hub at eqc@derby.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/mock-labour-room:
Our students can gain experience in a clinical setting in our mock labour room which can be set up in our ward area, which includes a labour bed, mattress and birthing pool.
Our Midwifery programmes use high-fidelity equipment which facilitates training to a near practice experience as possible.
We provide our students with simulation and scenario-based learning throughout their course and students are able to perform newborn and infant physical examinations and baby checks.
We use birthing mannikins which simulate not only birth but artificial rupture of membranes, vaginal examinations, breech (bottom first) births and obstetric emergencies.
We use a fully functioning resuscitaire which is used in practice for neonatal resuscitation, enabling students to learn, develop and become proficient at these skills prior to qualification as a midwife.
Set up in our mock hospital ward, our mock labour room features the following equipment:
It is important for students to practice skills prior to practice placements so they can provide safe and effective care whilst feeling confident and competent to do this guided by their practice supervisors.
Simulation and scenario-based learning is where students are immersed in a near as possible clinical environment or situation.
This has many benefits for students, such as learning through doing and reflecting, practising skills, critical thinking, team working and self-confidence.
These sessions prepare students to be able to manage unpredictable emergency environments and acquire and develop higher critical judgement skills.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/music-studios:
Our new suite of recording studios and post-production rooms at Markeaton Street houses a range of industry-standard equipment:
We also have several auditoria for performances and the latest equipment for psychoacoustics and music preparation.
View Music and Music Production at the University of Derby video transcript and audio description

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/nhs-standard-hospital-ward:
The six-bed hospital ward is complete with teaching facilities, a nurses' station, patient bathroom, patient mobility equipment and simulated-learning patients to provide a lifelike taste of working in a modern hospital.
Each bay on the ward has a hospital bed with moving table, personal belongings cupboard and visitors chair.
The hospital ward also features:
Equipment and consumables can be provided for your practical training sessions, including, but not limited to:
For more information or to book the facilities please email commercial@derby.ac.uk or call +44 (0)1332 597911 .
We also have two open-plan treatment rooms separated by a dividing wall which enables the rooms to be booked separately or as one large suite.
Each room has nine curtained treatment bays with ceiling lights and standing lamps available.
There are six massage couches, eight electric adjustable examination couches and four patient trolleys, including two emergency trolleys.
Also available for use in the treatment rooms is an ultrasound couch, a functional GE portable ultrasound unit and two ECG machines.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/oaklands-manor:
Our specialist outdoor leadership centre, Oaklands Manor, provides a unique learning environment for students studying our outdoor courses.
Surrounded by stunning views of the Peak District and only a five-minute drive from our Buxton campus, a regular, free mini bus service ensures students travel easily between sites.
Oaklands Manor, our outdoor leadership centre, boasts a range of bespoke facilities, including:
Surrounding Oaklands Manor are 58 acres of mixed woodland containing specialist outdoor equipment, including:
In addition, the surrounding Derbyshire Peak District provides the perfect environment for a range of outdoor activities:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/outdoor-learning-space:
The Institute of Education has a Forest School Practitioner who offers Forest School sessions across all programmes of Education
Forest School is an inspirational process that offers children regular opportunities to achieve and develop their confidence and self-esteem through hands-on learning experiences in a woodland or natural outdoor environment.
It promotes a child-centred approach to learning, interweaved with the ever-changing landscape of the natural world through discovery and differences throughout the seasons
Forest School sessions help children improve their wellbeing as they are seen as a therapeutic alternative to a formal education approach.
They can be adapted to suit children of all ages and skills levels whilst offering different challenges to stimulate learning and improve children’s wellbeing.
The Forest School sessions are held in an area of woodland close to Kedleston Road, Derby Campus.
Adjacent to the patch of woodland is a sports field, which is also used for fieldwork in areas of education.
Whilst these sites are owned by the University they are also designated as open green space for community use.
As an Education student at Derby, you will have the opportunity to explore Forest School sessions first hand, led by qualified practitioners within both the University's own woodland and also in partnership with fellow Forest School provision.
The experiences provide you the chance to explore the wider pedagogical approaches of the current education system and critically review different curriculum approaches.
Forest School sessions resonate with the work of educational theorists and are designed to demonstrate to students the ethos of Forest Schools.
Each session aims to fit specific aspects of education and demonstrate how they can be linked to the curriculum.
Our Forest School sessions offer time and space to enhance personal wellbeing and give students the opportunity to use their imagination and enjoy learning in what is our richest and ever-changing classroom ‘the outdoors’.
Courses that use the Forest School space include:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/performance-analysis-suite:
Our Performance Analysis Suite is fully equipped with 20 dual screen iMac computers.
Students will use this facility within teaching and practical sessions, but can also use it within applied work and self-guided exploration in their own time.
Kedleston Road is home to our Sports Centre and specialist sports science facilities including our suite of performance analysis equipment.
Students will get to work in our new Performance Analysis Suite, which is fully equipped with 20 dual screen iMac computers.
Not only will students use this facility within teaching and practical sessions, but they can use it within applied work and self-guided exploration in their own time.
Each iMac has a number of the leading video analysis, data analysis, and visualisations software packages to ensure students are able to fine-tune each of these key skill sets and be fully prepared for a successful career within the applied world.
As well as a number of pitch and court schematics to facilitate the application of the analysis work undertaken, the suite incorporates teaching and lecture capabilities to ensure students can combine theory and practical in a parallel environment.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/photography-lab:
Facilities in the Photography lab at  include:
View Photography at the University of Derby video transcript and audio description

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/psychology-counselling-suite:
These suites combine observation rooms equipped with two-way mirrors and DVD recording equipment with group behavioural observation rooms and specialist counselling rooms.
You can use our Psychology and counselling suites to create real-life scenarios.
Our Psychology suite has two observation suites and our Clinical Skills suite has five counselling rooms.
Suite one has two observation rooms connected to a control panel via two-way mirrors with blinds to enable observation of one room at a time.
The observation rooms contain microphones and cameras to enable video recording and play back in the control room for teaching and analysis.
Suite two is a large room connected to a control panel via a two-way mirror for observation and group behavioural studies.
The group observation room also contains microphones and cameras for recording and playback.
Our Clinical Skills suite boasts five consultation rooms dedicated to counselling, which have been designed to incorporate a comfortable and homely environment for patients.
The group observation room in the psychology suite can also be booked as a family therapy counselling room.
If you would like further information about the facility, please call us on +44 (0)1332 592326 .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/rehabilitation-kitchen:
Our rehabilitation kitchen gives you the chance to learn in a supported learning environment.
Full of specialist equipment, you’ll have everything you need to master your practical skills.
Our purpose-built, rehabilitation kitchen gives you the opportunity to learn practical skills in a supported learning environment.
It is an adapted living area that replicates the space that future patients may be situated in - giving you valuable experience of working in these settings.
You’ll use a variety of equipment and appliances adapted to suit those who have a range of physical or mental health needs.
You will apply the theory you have learnt in the classroom into a practical setting to build a range of skills that will help people perform everyday tasks.
Take a virtual tour around our rehabilitation kitchen - and much more!
View Occupational therapy facilities tour video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/sport-and-exercise-physiology-lab:
Our specialist laboratories are fully equipped for teaching and research purposes with:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/sports-centre:
Our fantastic £10.8 million Sports Centre and surfaces are fully equipped to enhance levels of physical activity and sporting success for student, staff, and our local communities.
We've teamed up with Everyone Active to bring you a fantastic leisure facility that’s packed with all the very latest sports and fitness equipment to help you on the way to your goals.
Whether you prefer to hit the gym, give climbing a go on our indoor wall, try a variety of sports and activities in the versatile double sports hall, we’ve got something for you.
The centre also boasts two squash courts, two outdoor tennis/netball courts, two group fitness studios, a group cycling studio and two outdoor 3G synthetic pitches.
We recently refurbished our fitness suite and offer a range of weekly classes for you to enjoy, keeping you healthy.
For more information about how to join and what's available visit the Everyone Active website or download the Everyone Active app available from the App Store or Google Play
The University is working in partnership with award-winning leisure operator Everyone Active in the management of the sports centre facility.
Everyone Active has over 30 years experience and is committed to helping more of our community to improve their health and wellbeing by getting active.
Our fantastic gym is packed with all the very latest fitness equipment that will help you reach your goals.
Whether you prefer a heart-thumping cardio workout, pumping iron in the free weights area or working the resistance machines, we’ve got you covered.
Our 2023 refurbishment doubled our squat racks and added additional pieces of equipment in high use weights making waiting for equipment a thing of the past.
We have also introduced new plate loaded equipment, created a new Theragun recovery area, and now have equipment that interacts with your wearable technology.
Whether you’re an old fashioned heavy lifter, new starter, or a high tech fitness tracker we have the high quality space for you.
Everyone Active host a variety of fitness classes in our fitness and cycle studio.
Classes include Zumba, Bootcamp, Pilates, Total Toning, Boxing fitness, Legs Bums & Tums, Yoga, kettlebells, group cycling, and Les Mills virtual spin.
Whatever your fitness and wellbeing goals are, be sure to book on via the Everyone Active app and to see the schedule.
Not been in the gym for a while?
New to fitness?
Want to develop your existing skills?
These sessions will give you everything you need to build your confidence.
We'll start with very basics so you’ll never feel out of your depth.
Explore your options via the Everyone Active app.
If you are a member heading home for the summer you can access over 90 other university gyms across the country at no extra cost.
As part of the annual student and staff membership the BUCS UNIversal scheme, a British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) initiative, helps you stay active all year round.
Our climbing wall offers 164 square metres of top-rope and lead climbing, abseiling and bouldering.
Roped climbing walls are up to 13m long with over 20 individual route options for people of all ages and abilities.
The abseil balcony is 10m high with easy access for all.
The 4m-high bouldering walls provide challenging climbing at a lower level with crash mats underneath in place of the rope system.
The climbing wall is open to groups of all ages and abilities from schools to University students and staff, and from birthday parties to corporate team building.
Competent climbers or those just wishing to boulder can register as a climbing wall user and climb anytime it is open.
Unfortunately, we don’t have a swimming pool on our site.
However, because our gym is powered by Everyone Active which also powers Derby City Council’s Moorways £42 million 50 meter swimming pool, ask our staff for more information about membership types that can help you access all areas or consider it on pay as you go basis.
We host kids parties onsite.
Play 5-a-side, climb the wall, or get a in a game of basketball.
Get in contact to discuss you party ideas in more detail.
Everyone Active recruit for various positions all year round.
Opportunities are available part time and on a casual basis for positions including lifeguards, swimming teachers, activity leaders, and coaches.
Contact Everyone Active via the contacts section for more information.
Email: uniofderbysc@everyoneactive.com
Phone: +44 (0)1332 497525
View Sports Centre access guide

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/stem-centre:
Our STEM Extension to Markeaton Street provides the latest computer studios and specialist facilities for engineering, technology and computing students.
The 4,200 square metre facility has been specially designed to enhance applied practical teaching in mechanical, motorsport, manufacturing and civil engineering, while upgrading and extending facilities for electrical and electronics engineering and computer networking.
An accessible roof space provides new opportunities for teaching communications technology and sustainable engineering such as renewable energy system and water harvesting.
The building has been constructed to meet Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology (BREEAM) ‘Very Good’ standard, and the architectural design enhances and complements the landscape between the two buildings.
The STEM extension was part-funded by a £5 million grant from the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE).
The extension provides a wide range of high-quality industry-standard facilities including:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/strength-and-conditioning-suite:
The Sport and Exercise Science Strength and Conditioning facilities are at the Derby campus within the Sports Centre.
Students on Strength and Conditioning modules have access to this space as part of their studies in both formal structured module content and additional peer led sessions.
Sessions held in the Strength and Conditioning Suite are aimed at developing key skills and competencies to work as an applied Strength and Conditioning coach.
The content of these sessions is aligned with the UK Strength and Conditioning Association key competency documents.
In this facility students will develop a number of practical and coaching competencies in areas including weightlifting, prehabilitation, metabolic conditioning and session planning and delivery.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/facilities/ultrasound-room:
The Suite comprises of eight state of the art Medaphor ScanTrainer Ultrasound simulators, which enable student sonographers to gain vital experience in both trans-abdominal and trans-vaginal scanning using haptic technology and real full anatomy patient scans prior to entering into the clinical environment.
In September 2018 the University launched a new expanded Ultrasound Simulation Suite which was funded by Health Education East Midlands to support Ultrasound training across the East Midlands region.
In addition, the University was the first in the world to be connected to the ScanTrainer cloud, an online case library of additional real patient scans which future enhances the student Sonographers experience of the simulation systems.
The expansion of the Simulation Suite compliments the University’s scan room consisting of two Ultrasound scanners and a mannequin simulator.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/our-campuses/derby:
Our Derby Campus is made up of several different sites.
Getting between them and the halls of residence couldn't be easier.
Whether you're heading to lectures or into town, you can hop on to our Unibuses or enjoy a walk to unwind or set you up for the day.
Derby sits in the centre of England and it is close to the M1 and M6 motorways, as well as being within easy reach of East Midlands Airport.
By train, you can get to London in 90 minutes or to Birmingham in 35 minutes.
Our Derby Campus is home to the majority of our courses and it is made up of four sites.
Explore each site to find out about the facilities and watch our Virtual Open Day tour videos
Kedleston Road is our biggest site and lies on the edge of Derby, just opposite Markeaton Park.
A place of innovation and creativity, Markeaton Street is home to our engineering, computing and mathematics courses as well as art, design, media and performing arts.
A restored former textile mill with specialist facilities for screen printing, dance and our fine art courses, as well as creative expressive therapies and social care.
If you're planning to move away from home to study, our award-wining halls of residence offer choice and value, great facilities and all you need to settle in quickly to student life.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/our-campuses/chesterfield:
Our Chesterfield site offers a close-knit campus with advanced healthcare teaching facilities in the renovated Grade II listed St Helena building.
Our nursing courses are ranked in the top 20 for teaching quality in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
The University's Chesterfield site is exclusively for our Nursing students, who can study either at Derby or Chesterfield.
Our Chesterfield site offers the benefits of a smaller site while still feeling connected to the wider University and vibrant social life.
For our Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing and Nursing Associate courses, 98% of our former students are in professional occupations 15 months after graduating (The Guardian University Guide 2025).
We have a fantastic relationship with the Chesterfield Royal Hospital NHS Foundation Trust where students can gain valuable and practical experience to impress future employers.
Our renovated Grade II listed building, St Helena, offers some of the most advanced teaching and learning technologies in health care.
View Chesterfield access guide
St Helena Sheffield Road Chesterfield S41 7LL
Explore our Virtual Tour - take a look around the facilities and hear from our current students to find out what studying at Chesterfield is really like.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/our-campuses/derby/kedleston-road:
Kedleston Road is our biggest site and is where many of our courses are taught.
It lies on the edge of Derby, just opposite a huge public park.
As our biggest site, Kedleston Road is the main student hub where students can find the doctor's surgery , Multi-Faith Centre, the largest of our university libraries and Basecamp - the Union of Students' social space, used as a chill-out area by both students and staff.
The site is a 30 minute walk to the city centre, or 14 minutes on our Unibus service.
It is also home to our newly refurbished, £10.8 million Sports Centre which doubles up as a Human Performance Unit (HPU).
For those taking Health Care subjects, we're proud to have an NHS-standard hospital ward where students gain a real sense of what it would be like to work in a modern hospital.
Within this hospital is a mock labour room allowing Midwifery students to receive immersive training that replicates real life.
View Kedleston Road access map
Our fantastic Sports Centre is fully equipped with state-of-the-art facilities.
Our libraries are well-stocked with books, journals, multimedia and archive material, and well-equipped with technology to support your studies.
Our Multi-Faith Centre has a team of chaplains and faith consultants who are always on hand to talk to if you need personal and confidential support.
The NHS-standard six-bed hospital ward is complete with teaching facilities, a nurses' station, patient bedroom, patient mobility equipment and simulated-learning patients.
Sessions held in the Strength and Conditioning Suite are aimed at developing key skills and competencies to work as an applied Strength and Conditioning coach.
Go beyond the classroom with the latest equipment, technology and study spaces to bring your learning to life.
Have a look around our Kedleston Road site in our Virtual Open Day tour.
View Virtual Tour: Kedleston Road video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/our-campuses/derby/one-friar-gate-square:
Welcome to the School of Law and Social Sciences , home to our Criminology, Law, Policing and Social Sciences staff and students.
One Friar Gate Square is a 10-minute walk into the city centre and a 25-minute walk from our Kedleston Road site.
All halls of residence are within easy walking distance.
The building houses spacious and newly refurbished learning spaces and specialist training facilities which include:
This modern and iconic building is the base for our Criminology, Law, Policing and Social Sciences courses.
This innovative space allows students to take their classroom learning to the next level and familiarise themselves with what could be a future work environment.
One Friar Gate Square is a 10-minute walk to the city centre and only a 25-minute walk to the main Kedleston Road site.
Explore One Friar Gate Square accessibility guide
Have a look around our One Friar Gate Square site in our Virtual Open Day tour.
View Virtual Open Day: One Friar Gate Square tour video transcript
Our replica Crown Court features contemporary technology and will give you practical learning opportunities to further develop your skills.
Our Custody Suite has been designed to replicate the facilities that you would find in a modern-day police station and allows our students to practice what they'll be doing in their future careers.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/departments/school-law-social-sciences/community-justice-hub:
Opening in autumn 2021, the Community Justice Hub in Derby city centre will see students from our School of Law and Social Sciences work collaboratively with the local police and council to tackle crime across the city.
Our Community Justice Hub opens in Derby city centre in autumn 2021.
It will see students from our School of Law and Social Sciences work with the police and council to tackle crime across the city.
Our students will have the chance to make a real change in their community to deliver positive benefits for residents.
They will work with multi-agency partners, including Derbyshire Constabulary, Derby City Council, voluntary organisations, and homeless charities.
Derbyshire's Police and Crime Commissioner supports the idea of the hub - and collaborative working - to deter crime.
This follows discussions with a host of agencies and businesses about problems including street begging, homelessness, and drug use on the streets of Derby.
The hub will allow students to test their skills in a real-life working environment.
They will work with other organisations on research projects or real-life projects associated with the city.
Students will assess data and apply academic research methodology and practice.
They will then make recommendations for the way issues of crime and antisocial behaviour can be addressed in the future.
Tony Blockley, Head of Policing at the University of Derby, sits on the panel of the Safer Communities Board.
His involvement will bring opportunities for students, including research and volunteering.
The board is made up of key partners from across Derby who give leadership and direction on how to tackle crime, disorder and substance misuse.
The Police, Fire Service, and Derby City Council are also on the panel.
Tony says:
“Having a base in the city centre working with local partners will allow us to work collaboratively on projects.
It will give fantastic exposure for our students, providing practical engagement to their studies as well as building up their CV.
I hope our students will be essential in delivering outcomes for the hub to see a safer city for future generations.”
As the Community Justice Hub develops, we will share regular updates on what projects our students are working on.
So keep an eye out to see the exciting opportunities our students are involved in.
Read our press release about the Community Justice Hub
The School of Law and Social Sciences encompasses law, criminology, policing and social sciences.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/departments/derby-law-school/community-legal-advice-service:
The Community Legal Advice Service was established within Derby Law School in February 2019.
It provides members of the public with free legal advice on a wide range of areas of law.
The University of Derby is one of only a few UK universities with approval from the Immigration Advice Authority to provide immigration advice to the general public via our Community Legal Advice Service.
We offer free legal advice to members of the public on a range of legal matters.
Members of the public can book appointments with our law students through our centralised email ( studentlegaladvicecentre@derby.ac.uk ).
Students will then meet with the client at an online meeting, assess their circumstances during an interview, and then if within the remit of the Centre's clinics, will offer free assistance by way of written guidance under the supervision of qualified legal professionals.
Explore our Clinics:
Our Family Law clinic offers support on matters such as:
The Student Legal Advice Centre also offers support to Litigants in Person in Family Law matters at the Family Court at Derby.
If you are representing yourself in a Family Law matter, a student volunteer can attend Court with you to support you, take notes and following the hearing we will discuss the outcome of the hearing with you.
Our Family Law Clinic is open every Thursday between 1pm and 5pm.
To book please contact: familyclinic@derby.ac.uk
Our Immigration Family Reunion Clinic assists with refugees who are seeking support with family reunion applications.
Immigration Family Reunion clinic is open every other Wednesday between 1pm to 5pm.
You can book by contacting: immigration@derby.ac.uk
A personal injury claim is a claim for compensation for a physical injury, or a psychological injury/condition that has been caused through the fault or negligence of someone else.
In cases where an accident results in death, there may also be a fatal accident claim.
To book please contact personalinjury@derby.ac.uk
Offering free support on business and commercial law for small businesses and entrepreneurs in the UK.
The Business Law Clinic aims to provide guidance on all manner of business and commercial law related matters.
Scope of the Business Law Clinic
What we are unable to do:
*Please note this list is not exhaustive.
To arrange an appointment for any of these clinics, please email studentlegaladvicecentre@derby.ac.uk, stating in the subject the clinic for which you would like to make an appointment.
The Business Law Clinic is open on Tuesdays from 1 pm to 5 pm by supervising solicitor, Dr Jennifer L L Gant.
This clinic is open year through, bar 2 weeks at Christmas, 2 weeks at Easter and 4 weeks in the summer period.
You can book by contacting: businessclinic@derby.ac.uk
University of Derby students can make an appointment with the legal triage clinic on any legal matter.
We will determine if the Centre can assist and if not will appropriately signpost.
The Legal Triage Clinic operates during semester time only on alternate Wednesdays.
Appointments can be made via the Union of Students.
For more information please contact: legaltriage@derby.ac.uk
The SEND Law Clinic is for parents/carers who are residents in Derby City or Derbyshire who are seeking advice in SEND matters.
The SEND Law Clinic aims to provide initial advice and offer signposting if the matters is beyond the expertise of the Clinic.
Appointments for our SEND Law Clinic are held every other Wednesday afternoon during University semesters.
Appointments are with two third year student volunteers with a background in Law and/or SEND.
There is professional oversight by a solicitor and a SEND specialist.
To book please contact: send@derby.ac.uk
If you are representing yourself in a Family Law matter, a student volunteer can attend Court with you to support you, take notes and following the hearing discuss the outcome of the hearing with you.
To book please contact: supportatcourt@derby.ac.uk
"I cannot express enough gratitude for the A+++ level of service I received from the University of Derby Community Legal Advice Service.
The guidance provided in my recent case related to my son's SEND needs has been absolutely invaluable.
The advice letter I received was incredibly thorough and well-researched, addressing every concern I raised.
The Centre's insights have been incredibly empowering.
Understanding these points has strengthened my arguments in the documents I prepared for the upcoming SEND Tribunal case.
I feel far more knowledgeable and confident in advocating for my son's rights.
I was treated with such kindness and genuine care during my interactions.
This is an incredibly stressful period, and the Centre's support is making a significant difference in my ability to advocate strongly for my son."
SEND Clinic client
Our Community Legal Advice Service provides free legal advice to the local community.
It's been operating for four years now and continues to go from strength to strength.
The Centre also has research-based clinics that allow students an opportunity to increase their research, writing and presentation skills on relevant and current issues.
The Justice Project is available to first-year students in the first year of undergraduate legal studies.
During the project, students work on a current issue together in a group, which for the 2022/23 academic year has been focused on carbon literacy and environmental issues.
Later in the year, our justice project students will present their findings at an event that includes local professionals, judges, and policymakers as well as staff and students from all over the University.
The Policy Clinic is available to second and third-year undergraduate and postgraduate law students and aims to provide a policy report or other written outcomes to an external client, frequently a non-governmental organisation.
From 2021-2023, the Policy Clinic has been focused on a policy project focused on the criminalisation of youth poverty in India under a brief provided by the International Bridges for Justice entitled 'Exploring the Nexus between Poverty and the Criminal Justice System in India.' With the support of the International Bridges for Justice, it is expected that the clinic will produce a policy paper by the end of the 2022/23 academic year.
The Centre has recently launched an International Human Rights Law Clinic for Non-Governmental Organisations and lawyers.
The Clinic is available to both undergraduate and postgraduate law students and provides research briefings to external clients in international human rights.
The clinic is open on Thursdays from 3 pm to 5 pm and is supervised by Dr Muin Boase .
They really gave me confidence to sort the finances out – each email I received was straightforward and everything they said made sense.
It would have been a real struggle without them.
As a student of Derby Law School, you will have the opportunity to become involved with the Centre from the outset of your degree.
Depending on the clinic with which you volunteer within the Centre, you will have the opportunity to meet with clients, take instructions, carry out research and advise accordingly in writing.
First-year students are currently involved in a Justice Project.
This promotes the teaching of law to all members of the community, including school children, by informing them of their legal rights and responsibilities.
Second-year students have the opportunity to become involved in the Immigration Family Reunion Clinic.
Second-year students will also have the opportunity to become involved in the Legal Triage Clinic.
Third-year students are involved in the Family Law Clinic and Support at Court for Litigants in Person.
Third-year students will also have the opportunity to become involved in the Business Clinic.
Both undergraduate and postgraduate students have the opportunity to volunteer in the Centre’s Policy Clinic and International Human Rights Clinic, which carry out research for non-government organisations.
I have loved working in the Student Legal Advice Centre.
Not only has it helped me to develop practical legal skills, but it has also helped to improve my emotional intelligence due to dealing with sensitive issues.
Our Student Legal Advice Centre sits within Derby Law School.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/facilities/scanning-electron-microscope:
Impressive magnification is powering advances in areas such as technology, industry and research.
Our scanning electron microscope (SEM) can magnify objects up to 20-30,000 times and can play a key role in these developments.
We invest in facilities that can benefit the learning outcomes of our students, the research of our staff and the needs of your business or organisation.
There are many things which are so small that the detail cannot be seen by the naked eye or light microscopy.
However, in our fast-changing world, we have seen technology evolve, including the capability of electron microscopes, which produce images of the surfaces of exceptionally small objects.
Our scanning electron microscope generates striking high-resolution images by magnifying objects from 20-30,000 times, which is substantially greater than light microscopes.
It provides high-resolution, three-dimensional images.
Take a look at how the Scanning Electron Microscope works:
View Scanning Electron Microscope facility at the University of Derby video transcript
Rather than using light, the SEM scans a beam of electrons over the specimen and detectors collect the electrons which are emitted, converting them into an image of the surface on screen.
Additionally, X-rays emitted from the surface are collected by a different detector and software is able to determine the chemical composition of the sample or feature.
This energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) capability uses Inca Aztec software for elemental composition.
What our scanning electron microscope can provide:
We offer microscopy services to businesses and organisations in the UK and globally.
If you'd like to work with us or require further information about how our scanning electron microscope (SEM) could benefit your project, please get in touch by emailing businessgateway@derby.ac.uk.
Our scanning electron microscope has applications across a number of areas.
* All photos are property of the University of Derby and can not be used without permission.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/fees-finance/international:
You will need to pay £8,000 of your tuition fees as a deposit, this payment will secure your place on your chosen course.
You can then pay the remaining amount of your fees in two instalments.
Once we have received your full deposit payment, there are two further payments required.
Please see the dates for the further payments below.
If you progress from an undergraduate degree to a postgraduate degree at Derby, you will get an Alumni discount on your postgraduate course fees.
* Discount applicable on all courses except the International Foundation Programme and can be used in conjunction with another scholarship, bursary or discount.
See terms and conditions for discounts.
If you are an overseas applicant, any offer made will initially be a conditional offer, subject to you either paying a deposit of GBP £8,000 or providing a sponsor letter.
Refund of the £8,000 deposit is normally dependent on your providing proof that your visa application has been refused.
However, if your visa application was submitted using fraudulent or dishonest evidence or documents, we will not refund your deposit.
Please complete our form if you wish to request a refund.
All refunds must be requested within 14 days of making the payment, or within 14 days of notification of a change of status to your application.
Deposits are not guaranteed.
Please refer to our policy for all refund information (such as not meeting all your offer conditions, CAS or visa refusal).
An administration charge may apply.
As an international student, living for the first time alone in the UK, I had to learn to budget if I was to live comfortably and still enjoy my time at university.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-and-finance/scholarships-and-bursaries:
We have a number of funding opportunities available to students.
You must apply to study at the University of Derby before you can apply for our scholarships.
The University of Derby Bursary provides targeted financial assistance with the costs of higher education to those who are eligible.
Our Sports Scholarship programme aims to help our talented athletes realise their sporting potential and support them through their academic studies.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/fees-and-finance/alumni-discount:
Continue your studies with up to 25% discount for postgraduate courses – even if you’re switching subject or campus.
Have you thought about your next step after graduation?
If you’re considering postgraduate study you could benefit from up to 25% discount to continue your studies at the University of Derby.
The discount applies whether you’re continuing in the same discipline or switching to a completely different subject or campus.
With over 40 postgraduate subject areas to choose from, you can be confident that you’ll find a course to develop your skills and serve your ambitions in a subject you’re passionate about.
So whichever way you look at it, if you’re considering postgraduate study, the University of Derby should be top of your list.
You'll continue to receive the high-quality teaching you've been used to, and at a significant cost saving.
Read our terms and conditions
You may be eligible for a 25% Alumni Discount if you meet the following criteria:
You cannot receive the 25%, 10% and £500 discount at the same time.
You can only be eligible for one of the Alumni Discounts during the duration of your course.
You may be eligible for a 10% Alumni Discount if you meet the following criteria:
You may be eligible for a £500 Alumni Discount if you meet the following criteria:
You may be eligible for the 10% PGR Alumni Discount if you meet the following criteria:
This discount amount is fixed, regardless of when you graduated.
This discount is available for students of all Tuition Fee Status for fee paying purposes, including Home, European Union and Overseas.
This includes graduating from a degree at one of our Collaborative Partners if you receive a degree awarded by the University of Derby.
If you are also eligible for the Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship, you will only receive the discount with the highest value, and not both.
This discount is for all Tuition Fee Statuses, including Home, European Union and Overseas.
The 25% discount is not in addition to the 10% Alumni Discount, you cannot receive both at the same time.
The 10% discount is not in addition to the 25% Alumni Discount, you cannot receive both at the same time.
The following courses and study modes are exempt from the discount:
Discounts must be requested at the time of enrolment.
To check if the discount is applied to your account or to request it is added, please ask during Enrolment or at the Student Hub.
You can also contact the Student Records and Awards Team on +44 (0)1332 593110 or email studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk .
The Alumni Discount will adjust the overall fee payable to the University.
This typically reduces the first instalment(s) of your payment plan, and the future payments due will remain as planned.
Therefore, you may notice that the payments due towards the end of the year will be the same as those without the Alumni Discount, but the overall fee paid will be lower.
Please note that payment for enrolment purposes is separate to your payment plan per the University policy.
If you continue on the same course, you will receive the alumni discount you were eligible for at the start of the course, for every year of study on that course.
If your course changes or you begin a new course, you may no longer be eligible for the Alumni Discount.
The Alumni Discount is typically added for the next year ahead of enrolment, however, please request this during enrolment, or at the Student Hub if it is not added to your account.
Our MRes programmes are eligible for the Postgraduate Taught discount levels, of 25%, 10% or £500, depending on when you start your course, when you graduated and your residency.
During the application process your Tuition Fee Status (also known as your residency) will be assessed.
When you are issued an offer letter from the University, your offer letter will include your Tuition Fee status.
This will also be confirmed to you during the enrolment process.
Yes, graduating from a University of Derby Collaborative Partner with a University of Derby degree does make you a University of Derby Alumni, meeting the graduation eligibility requirement.
Eligibility for the discount is still subject to meeting all other eligibility requirements.
No, if you are awarded the University of Derby Staff Sponsorship to support your studies at the University, you cannot also receive the Alumni Discount.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/online/fees-finance/course-fees:
We realise that embarking on a course can mean a big financial investment, so we offer a number of ways to reduce your costs with our discounts or spread them out with one of our payment plans so they are more manageable.
Don't forget, you may also be eligible for financial help such as loans or sponsorship.
If you're paying for yourself, spread out the cost with one of our payment plans.
See if you are eligible for a discount or saving.
Find out how to make a payment.
Find out what happens if you want to cancel your place on a course.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/health-and-wellbeing:
There is a clear link between your wellbeing and academic success.
To help you make the most of your time at the University, our experienced Student Services team can provide confidential support, advice and guidance to all students and applicants on a range of topics.
Our Disability team provides a wide range of support for students with long term conditions, from mental and physical health, specific learning differences and much more.
Our team of mental health practitioners and counsellors can offer support depending on your own need, from one-off appointments to short term counselling.
If you need specialist support during your studies, through a support worker or mentor, our Student Support team can help you.
Find out the different ways you can contact the team, and our opening times.
Find out where to get support outside of Student Services.
Starting at the University of Derby?
Make sure to come along to one of our induction sessions to learn about the support we can offer while you're studying with us.
You can choose to attend either an in-person or virtual session.
International students can access this free course to help manage stress, tackle negative thoughts, and adjust to UK culture when studying abroad.
We can offer mental health support to students, either by a one-off appointment with a mental health practitioner, or short-term counselling sessions.
Please see our Counselling and Mental Health Services page for more information and how to make a self-referral.
If you have a disability or a long-term condition that may affect your studies, we can set up support for you, including a Support Plan.
Please see our Disability page for more info.
If you want to find out about budgeting, or need support if you’re struggling with your money, we can help.
Please see our Finance and Budgeting page for more info.
We can set up support if you have a specific learning difference, such as dyslexia, dyspraxia or dyscalculia, or if you would like to explore getting a diagnosis.
Please see our Specific Learning Difference page for more info.
We can provide lots of different support for autistic students - please see our Autism page for more info.
We can set up support if you have a diagnosis of ADHD or ADD, or would like guidance on how to get a diagnosis through the NHS or privately.
Please see our ADHD/ADD page for more info.
If you are fostered, a care leaver or have had experience of living in care, we can offer support.
Please see our Care Leavers and Estranged Students page for more info.
If you are providing care for a child, family member or friend, support is available.
Please see our Students with Caring Responsibilities page for more info.
If you have a disability or a long-term condition, you may be eligible for funded support through the Disabled Student’s Allowance (DSA).
Please see our Applying for DSA page for more info.
If you're unable to come along to one of our 2024-25 induction sessions, don't worry, as our presentation is available to watch here:
View Student Services Online Induction Presentation 2025 video transcript
Our Sexual Violence and Misconduct Liaison Officers (SVMLOs) are trained to support students who have been affected by any incidents of sexual misconduct.
At the University of Derby Safeguarding is everyone's responsibility.
Please read our guidance here if you have a safeguarding concern.
Find out more about the University of Derby policies related to Student Services, including safeguarding, pregnancy and more.
Find out the latest news and updates from Student Services on UniHub
Expert information and advice to help you through the challenges of uni life.
Making it easier to find the support you need.
Answer 5 quick questions to get your free plan with tips to help you deal with stress and anxiety, improve your sleep, boost your mood and feel more in control.
The TalkCampus app provides free and instant support for your mental health and wellbeing anytime of the day, anywhere in the world.
Sarah Richardson, our Head of Student Services, explains how we support your wellbeing at university.
View Livestream highlights: Student support services video transcript
If you are feeling confused, isolated, angry or any other shade of emotion following the Supreme Court ruling, Student Services are here to support you.
From 1 August 2025, the Unibus will no longer be free for students to use.
If you are worried about this change, we have information and resources available to support you.
Whether it's having trouble sleeping, not being able to focus properly, or dealing with stress, we hope our tips will remind you to look after yourself and tackle each problem gradually to find solution.
We've put together some tips, tools and resources to help get you through exams and revision, as well as looking after your mental health and wellbeing.
Discover how your student records are held, what it means to consent to share and how to access your information.
The StudentHub@Derby has a whole host of services that support in every aspect of your student life, including enrolment, assignment hand-ins, student fees and much more.
Find out how to register with a GP and useful health care info
We have a free SafeZone app that you can use to access support from our Security team whenever and wherever you are on campus.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/faith-and-religion-chaplaincy-at-derby-buxton-chesterfield-and-leek:
We offer a welcome to everyone, whatever their faith or world view.
Our team of chaplains and faith consultants is here for all students and staff.
We offer pastoral support , as well as advising on matters of faith and belief, providing an environment in which to practice and learn about your own faith and opportunities to explore other faith communities.
If you want to explore the big questions about life and its purpose, or simply want a chat, we’ll be pleased to see you.
We are based in the Multi-Faith Centre at the Kedleston Road Site, Derby* which provides an inclusive and safe space for prayer, worship, and meditation, as well as a place to relax and socialise.
There is also a prayer room at the Britannia Mill site.
We also run a programme of events and activities .
We are open from 9 am to 5 pm.
If there is nobody around when you call, we will probably be elsewhere on campus.
Just let reception at the Multi-Faith Centre know that you're looking for a Chaplain, and we'll contact you as soon as we can.
You're also welcome to make an appointment.
You can find out more about our Christian and Muslim Chaplains by visiting the Chaplains webpage , and about our Faith Consultants by visiting the Faith Consultants page .
To be in touch with us or for the latest information on our events and activities, please send us an email or call +44 (0)1332 591878 .
You can also check out our facebook page and follow us on Twitter @UODChaplaincy
We look forward to meeting you.
*If you are a student or a staff member at our Buxton, Leek or Chesterfield campus then please visit the Buxton, Leek and Chesterfield webpage.
View Multi-Faith Centre access guide

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/student-transfer-arrangements:
We understand that life can change, meaning you may have to move away from your current place of study.
We have a number of arrangements to help, and further information, advice and guidance is available below.
The Midlands Credit Compass is an agreement with several other universities in the Midlands to ensure that students who need to leave their studies can return to education if they choose to do so.
Whether you’re looking to transfer in or out of the University of Derby, we can offer guidance on how to transfer between the universities involved, advise on admissions contacts and answer your frequently asked questions.
Find out about the Midlands Credit Compass
We can consider applicants who have part completed degree courses at other institutions for a course at the University of Derby.
It may be possible to have learning you have gained elsewhere recognised to count towards study at the University – this can be formal certificated learning, or learning gained through the experience of working.
Further information, advice and guidance is available from our Admissions Office, by email to askadmissions@derby.ac.uk , or by phone 01332 591167
Our full Admissions and Recognition of Prior Learning policies can be found listed in our Academic regulations, policy and procedures.
View academic regulations, policy and procedures
All University of Derby students may be eligible for a certificate and a detailed record of study which they can use for the purposes of transferring to study elsewhere.
Further information, advice and guidance is available from our Registry – email studentrecordsandawards@derby.ac.uk , or phone 01332 593110 .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/accepted:
We're delighted that you've accepted your offer to study at the University of Derby.
We’ll keep in touch to let you know what’s happening in the run-up to joining us in September, and you can also join our Facebook group at facebook.com/derbyuni which is just for our offer holders, so you can start to make friends and join in conversations before you get here in.
February to April: some subjects will be running taster sessions for applicants.
We really recommend you book a place if you haven’t already - check dates and availability for your subject.
Other courses (particularly in the Arts) will invite you for interviews to assess portfolios.
During the interview you will also have the opportunity to tour the facilities at Markeaton Street and to visit accommodation.
February to July: come and explore our campus if you’ve not already been to Derby, Buxton or Chesterfield.
You can join one of our monthly Campus Tours at Derby, or we can arrange a visit for you at Buxton or Chesterfield.
July 2018 – BTEC results released
16 August 2018 – A-level Results Day
Now you have accepted your offer, you should start looking at where you might live.
Our halls of residence are ideally located a short distance from your lectures and within easy reach of the city centre – so you’ll soon be finding your way around and enjoying your home from home.
Most first year students live in halls – they provide safe, good value accommodation.
Your rent is all-inclusive, so you’ll have no separate bills to sort out.
If you’d prefer to rent a private property, we can help you find the right place through our registered private housing scheme.
Together with the Council and the landlord, we assess all the properties registered so you can be confident they’ll be safe and comfortable.
If you are funding your studies yourself you can apply for a tuition fee loan from the Student Loans Company.
It’s quick and secure to apply online.
You won’t make any repayments until you have graduated and your salary has reached a specified level.
The tuition fee loan will cover your fees, and you can apply for a maintenance loan to cover your living costs.
You may also want to start thinking about how to manage your money and ways to top-up your income through part-time work.
If your offer is conditional (ie dependent on gaining specific grades in your forthcoming exams), UCAS will notify us of your results.
Once we receive your results, we will aim to make a decision as quickly as possible.
If you meet the terms of your offer, your place will be confirmed automatically and UCAS will be updated within a few days.
If you don’t gain the grades you were expecting, try not to worry.
We may still be able to offer you a place on your chosen course.
Check UCAS to see if you have been accepted.
However, if you have been unsuccessful in gaining a place on the course you have applied for, we would still recommend contacting us as we may be able to offer an alternative course.
The Union of Students can provide help and advice on a variety of issues, and the University also operates a Student Wellbeing Service offering a wide range of support from health and personal issues, to finance worries and academic study support.
Contact us before you enrol to find out how we can help.
You can read more about academic preparation, making friends before you get here and top tips on our Preparing to go to University pages.
You’ll automatically become a member of the Union of Students when you register as a student in September.
Union of Students has offices at both our Derby and Buxton Campuses and their role is to make sure you have the best possible experience here.
Led by students, you’ll find there are lots of ways to get involved – you might want to be a programme rep for your course, represent a specific group of students, or set up your own club or society.
Your first few weeks will be fast-paced and packed with new information and chances to socialise.
Find out more about the Union of Students .
We look forward to seeing you in September, but in the meantime if you have any questions about studying with us at Derby, please contact our Admissions team on +44 (0)1332 591167 or email askadmissions@derby.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/preparing-to-go-to-university:
We've pulled together a collection of useful information to help you prepare to start university.
We each have our own ways of approaching major changes in our lives.
But it is important that we find ways to successfully manage these changes.
We know that academic success depends as much on how well someone adapts to university life as it does on academic ability.
There are some simple steps that you can take to make sure that the process of going to university is as smooth as possible.
This section outlines some of these preparatory steps with links for further information and advice.
Studying at university is very different to being at school, here are some useful pieces of advice on how you can prepare yourself academically.
If you have additional support needs or have caring responsibilities, support is available for you within the University.
Ask one of our current students your question to find out about what it’s really like to be a student at the University of Derby
Here are some practical tips to help you prepare for starting at university.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/student-space:
In addition to the student support provided by the University, Student Space is a service delivered by Student Minds in collaboration with higher education professionals, researchers and students.
Student Space is a new nationwide initiative to help with a range of issues you may face, including:
Student Space is available to all higher education students across England and Wales, and can be reached by phone.
Whether you’re experiencing suicidal thoughts, depression, anxiety, loneliness or relationship issues, volunteers are here to listen and support you.
More information on phone support
More information on text support
The Wellbeing Centre provides information and guidance to help you look after your wellbeing during your time at University.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/exam-and-revision-support-hub:
Getting through exam season might feel like having a mountain to climb, but exams are really the culmination of lots of smaller steps you’ve taken throughout the year – lectures, reading and coursework.
Revision is just a small part of your preparation.
It can be an intense time nevertheless, so we've spoken to our academic experts and current students to collate their top tips to get you through.
Kate Wood, Project Manager in mental health, shares her top five behaviours to adopt when tackling exams and assessments.
Alexander Wood, Academic Librarian, explores different revision methods.
Dr Katia Vione delves into the world of neuroscience and brain health to understand how a healthy lifestyle can support you.
Hit the wall?
Current student Kira shares her advice to get you back on track.
Have a read through the symptoms and how you can tackle it.
Exam season is almost upon us, and with it can bring feelings of fear and dread.
But fear not!
Did you know that you can train your brain to cope with exam stress?
Read our advice and guidance to support your loved one.
Studying for your A-levels this summer?
Our lecturers guide you through their top tips that will help you prepare for your essays, exams and revision.
Watch and then apply their advice to your own writing.
Senior Lecturer Dr.
Paul Whickman and second-year student Meg help you improve poetry analysis with this technique that turns your impressions into model answers.
Watch 'Top tips for English poetry' Watch 'Top tips for English poetry'
Programme Leader Dr.
Ruth Larsen shares key concepts for essay writing, what pitfalls to avoid, and suggestions for your free time between study.
Watch 'How to succeed in your History A-levels' Watch 'How to succeed in your History A-levels'
Life as a university student is exciting and fun, but it can also feel daunting at times.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/out-of-hours:
Should you need support outside of the university, there are many resources available for you.
Some may be listed as local to the area, and some are national and available wherever you are in the UK.
For more information, visit our Further Support and Self Help Resources page.
Your GP can offer you further support, guidance and advice for all wellbeing matters.
The University of Derby have a GP at the Kedleston Road site, called The Park Medical Practice.
It's usual for GP surgeries to be closed at weekends so it's helpful to check the surgery website for opening hours and out-of-hours services.
If you're away from Derbyshire, you may be able to access treatment locally as a temporary patient.
Typically, students in Derby use the following GP surgery:
T: 01332 667911
Visit Park Medical Practice website
Typically, students in Buxton use the following GP surgeries:
T: 01298 24105
If you're not already registered, you can register online with Buxton Medical Practice .
T: 01298 22338
If you're not already registered, find out more about registering with Stewart Medical Centre .
If you're away from Derbyshire, you may be able to access treatment locally by registering as a temporary patient at a GP surgery near your home.
If you're not registered with a GP, use the NHS Choices website to locate the nearest one to you.
In an emergency or if you're at risk of harm, always dial 999 .
For non-emergency crimes and reporting of feeling unsafe, dial 101 .
Young Minds Crisis Messenger provides free, confidential, 24/7 support across the UK if you are experiencing a mental health crisis.
They can help with suicidal thoughts , abuse or assault, self-harm , bullying , and relationship issues.
Text: YM to 85258
View useful contacts for urgent help
Samaritans provide an independent listening service that is always available, 24/7.
T: 116 123
E: jo@samaritans.org
Chat with Samaritans online
Visit Samaritans website
You can call the urgent mental health helpline for:
Please note, this service is available in England only.
Find your local NHS urgent mental health helpline
The NHS 111 Service is open 24/7, 365 days a year, offering advice and support about what to do if you're in crisis.
T: 111
Find out when to use 111
Developed by doctors and experts in self-harm and suicide prevention, the distrACT app offers discreet, fast, and easy access to reliable information and support for those experiencing self-harm or suicidal thoughts.
Download the DistrACT App
Student Space provides resources for students, including a student support helpline, online chat, text message and email service.
Phone: 0808 189 5260 (3pm - 12am every day)
Text STUDENT to 85258 (24 hour text support)
Webchat support (4pm - 11pm every day)
Email: students@themix.org.uk
Visit Student Space website
The Derbyshire Healthcare Mental Health Support Line provides 24/7 free and confidential support via phone.
T: 0800 028 0077
Visit Derbyshire Healthcare website
Whether you want to know more about how you're feeling, get information about a mental health condition, or know what support is available to you, Young Minds can help.
Visit Young Minds website
Shout is a free, confidential 24/7 text service for anyone in the UK who’s struggling to cope.
Trained volunteers are available day and night to listen and support you, and texts won’t appear on your phone bill.
Text the word ‘SHOUT’ to 85258
Visit the Shout website
The Mix provides essential support for under 25s via phone, one-to-one chat, Crisis Messenger and email.
Phone: 0808 808 4994 (3pm - 12am, every day)
Webchat: One-to-one webchat (3pm - 12am, every day)
Email: info@themix.org.uk
Crisis Messenger - Text THEMIX to 85258 for free, 24/7 crisis support
Counselling Services - Confidential and safe, suitable for young people aged 25 years and under
Visit The Mix website
CALM (Campaign Against Living Miserably) provides support to anyone in the UK who is feeling down and needs to talk or find information.
Chat with CALM online
T: 0800 585858
We're here 5pm - midnight every day.
At Call Derbyshire, the customer care assistant who takes your call, will 'own' your enquiry and will do everything possible to ensure you receive the information and help you need.
T: 01629 533190 (Monday - Friday, 8am - 8pm | Saturdays 9:30am - 4pm)
The Community Mental Health Teams (for adults of working age) in Derbyshire provide tailored support for people aged 18 to 65 who are experiencing significant mental health difficulties such as psychosis, bipolar disorder, anxiety or depression.
The service offers assessment, treatment and care planning delivered by a team of mental health professionals, with a focus on recovery, building independence and improving quality of life through both clinical support and connections to wider community resources.
Visit Derbyshire Healthcare's website
The Health and Wellbeing service from Derbyshire County Council offers personalised coaching and support for adults (aged 16 and over, outside Derby City) who are living with health conditions or disabilities.
The service helps individuals improve their physical, mental, and social wellbeing by building confidence, developing life skills, and connecting with local communities.
Phone: 01629 532049
Email: healthandwellbeing@derbyshire.gov.uk
Visit Derbyshire County Council's website
Derbyshire Domestic Abuse Helpline is a 24/7 support line who can put you in touch with other support networks, organise refuge (should you need it), and explain how you can go forward with a criminal prosecution.
T: 0800 0198 668
E: derbyshiredahelpline@theelmfoundation.org.uk
If you're deaf or hearing impaired, or unable to phone, text the Derbyshire Domestic Abuse Support Line on 07534 617252.
Find out more about the Derbyshire Domestic Abuse Helpline
The National Domestic Violence Helpline provides free and confidential, 24/7 support and advice.
T: 0808 2000 247
Visit National Domestic Violence Helpline website
The Women's Aid Domestic Violence Helpline is a free 24-hour national helpline run by Women's Aid and Refuge.
Visit Women's Aid website Visit Refuge website
Respect is a confidential helpline for male victims of domestic abuse.
T: 0808 801 0327
Visit Respect website
The National LGBT Domestic Abuse Helpline provides emotional and practical support for LGBT+ people.
T: 0800 999 5428
Visit National LGBT+ Domestic Abuse Helpline website
Karma Nirvana provides support for victims of honour-based abuse and forced marriage.
T: 0800 5999 247
Visit Karma Nirvana website
Visit our Sexual Violence and Misconduct Support page and our Resource bank page for more information
Cruse Bereavement Support in Derby offers specialised services to help individuals cope with grief.
They provide one-to-one support with trained volunteers, in person or over the phone, as well as a fortnightly bereavement group.
Available to those aged six and over, Cruse focuses solely on supporting people through the grieving process.
T: 0808 808 1677
Visit Cruse Bereavement Support's website
Treetops Hospice provides nursing care and emotional support to adults with life-limiting conditions and those who have been bereaved in Derby and Derbyshire.
Their services include Hospice at Home care, therapeutic support, and counselling for grieving individuals.
All services are free of charge and aim to enhance the quality of life for patients and their families.
Phone: 0115 949 1264
Email: info@treetopshospice.org.uk
Visit Treetops Hospice's website
Find more information, advice and support on Derbyshire County Council's website
Visit Derbyshire County Council's 'Bereavement and Loss' webpage
First Steps ED is an award-winning charity based in the Midlands, supporting individuals affected by eating difficulties and disorders.
They offer services including counselling, support groups, training for professionals, and workshops for families and carers.
Their non-clinical early intervention and prevention services complement NHS and public health initiatives.
T: 0300 1021685
E: info@firststepsed.co.uk
Visit First Steps ED's website
Beat ED is a UK charity that provides counselling and support for those affected by eating disorders.
It offers helplines, support groups, and resources to assist in recovery, aiming to raise awareness and reduce stigma.
T: 0300 123 3355
Visit Beat ED's website
Relationships Derby provides counselling services for individuals, couples, families, and young people, as well as psychosexual therapy designed to enhance relationships with others and oneself.
Sessions are offered at a fixed rate, with a limited number of fully funded sessions available.
Address: 3 Wentworth House, Vernon Gate, Derby, DE1 1UR
Phone: 01332 349177
Email: info@relationshipsderby.org.uk
1625 Outreach by Change Grow Live is a free, confidential service for 16- to 25-year-olds in Derby, Derbyshire, and Sheffield that provides information about drugs and alcohol and signposts young people to local specialist support and services.
Email: 1625outreach@cgl.org.uk
Webchat support
Visit the 1625 Outreach website
Talk to FRANK is a national UK service offering free, confidential advice and information about drugs and their effects to people across the whole of the UK.
It provides educational resources aimed especially at young people, covering both legal and illegal substances, along with guidance on how to stay safe and where to get further help.
The service supports individuals, families, and professionals by offering reliable, non-judgmental information and signposting to local drug and alcohol services nationwide.
Message www.talktofrank.com/contact
Phone: 0300 1236600
Text 82111
Visit FRANK's website
Talking Mental Health Derbyshire offers online referrals from local residents wanting to engage with telephone, video and digital (text-based) therapy.
People aged 18+ may refer into the service.
Contact the service or refer yourself
Mental Health Support Line: 0800 028 0077 (24/7 support)
Find out more about the Mental Health Support Line
Talking therapies, or psychological therapies, are effective and confidential treatments delivered by fully trained and accredited NHS practitioners.
They can help with common mental health problems like stress, anxiety and depression.
Find out more about NHS talking therapies
Every Turn is an NHS provider offering talking therapies to anyone aged 18 and over.
They provide a range of therapeutic services, including counselling and CBT, to support mental wellbeing.
You can self-refer easily via their website, or contact them directly for more information.
T: 0300 555 5580
E: derbyshire@everyturn.org
Visit Everyturn's website
Kooth is a digital counselling service that provides young people aged 11-25 in Derbyshire with free, confidential, and safe online support.
Kooth offers access to a range of services, including live chats with qualified counsellors and a supportive community.
Young people can access this service at any time.
Visit Kooth's website
The Psychotherapy Room in Derby offers a confidential and supportive space for individuals to explore their thoughts and emotions.
They provide affordable counselling and psychotherapy for a range of issues, including anxiety, depression, and relationship difficulties.
Sessions are available Monday through Sunday, and both male and female therapists are available.
Student concession rates are offered.
T: 07469244815
E: info@thepsychotherapyroom.com
Visit The Psychotherapy Room's website
Green Lane Counselling and Mental Health Service in Derby offers affordable, professional therapy for individuals aged 5 and above.
With flexible options including face-to-face, online, and phone sessions, they support students with issues like anxiety, depression, and stress.
They provide a safe, confidential space to work through emotional challenges, with reduced fees available for students.
T: 07977 712027
E: enquiries@greenlanecounselling.co.uk
Visit Green Lane Counselling and Psychotherapy's website
Derwent Rural Counselling Service (DRCS) offers affordable and confidential therapy to individuals aged 6 and above.
With flexible options like face-to-face, online, and phone counselling, they provide support for issues such as stress, anxiety, and personal challenges.
Operating Monday to Friday, DRCS offers a welcoming, non-judgmental space to help you manage your mental health.
Visit DRCS's website
Counselling Directory is an online resource in the UK that connects individuals with professional therapists and counsellors.
It provides access to a range of mental health support, helping people find the right guidance for their well-being.
With detailed therapist profiles and useful resources, Counselling Directory makes it easier to access the support needed for better mental health.
Visit Counselling Directory's website
You can find further helplines (both local and national) available on our Student Wellbeing Tile on UDo, including support for harassment, stalking, sexual assault and rape, suicidal thoughts and crime.
View urgent help and crime support on UDo
We've pulled together some resources to help you to look after your wellbeing, healthy and happiness.
Plan and eat healthier meals with the NHS Easy Meals recipe app.
Choose from 150 easy, calorie-counted recipes covering breakfast, lunch, evening meals and puddings.
If you're short on inspiration, let the app plan your day's meals.
The Student Health App was created to give you easy access to reliable health and wellbeing information.
Find out more about the Student Health App
WellMind is an NHS mental health and wellbeing app designed to help you with stress, anxiety and depression.
The app includes advice, tips and tools to improve your mental health and boost your wellbeing.
There's an app for everything!
From staying active, to apps that help with anxiety, depression, your digital wellbeing, sleep, and stress.
View our list of useful wellbeing apps
Discover how you can set yourself up to do your best by managing stress and maintaining your wellbeing and academic performance.
Within UDo you'll have access to resources, including YouTube videos and downloadable resources, so you can start building on your foundations for success.
Visit UDo
Keep Calm.
Stay Wise.
Be Kind.
Action for Happiness helps people take action for a happier and kinder world.
Why not try their 10 Days of Happiness program - a free online coaching program for challenging times; boost your wellbeing during the crisis and learn how to be happier.
Visit Action for Happiness website
Support from student wellbeing includes a confidential counselling service.
We have a GP surgery on campus in Derby and we have specialist support for people who had experience of living in care,...

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/welcome/new-students:
Congratulations on securing your place at the University of Derby!
We're delighted you have chosen to study with us and wish you a very warm welcome.
The first few weeks of university can be packed with information, so we've created these pages to help you navigate your first few weeks.
If you're a new student, you can find out what you need to know before you arrive, including information about moving into halls and enrolment and induction , as well as useful information about what to expect in your first few weeks.
If you’re a returning student, take a look at our Returning Students page for some useful reminders ready for September.
We've also created a dedicated Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) area to help answer all your queries.
View Welcome timeline video transcript
There are a few things you need to do before you join us.
Follow these easy steps to start your university journey.
Get directions to our campuses.
What you’ll get up to in your first weeks with us.
Whether you’re exploring new interests, navigating challenges or simply looking to connect, remember that you’re never alone.
The University and your Union of Students plan an exciting range of activities and events.
They provide so many great services.
Take a look at what our city and region have to offer.
We answer your most asked questions.
All of our support teams around the University are there to help you feel welcome, supported and on track to do your very best.
There’s lots of support on offer to help you settle into your studies, both on campus and virtually.
The StudentHub@Derby has a whole host of services that support you at all levels of study and in every aspect of your student life, providing a central point of contact that can link you with the right team.
The Student Services team can offer support with your wellbeing during your time at the University of Derby.
You will also have access to a host of resources, and support to help you build the skills you need at University.
Find out some essential IT information.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/health-and-wellbeing/sexual-violence-and-misconduct-support:
This is the University of Derby’s single comprehensive source of information and reflects our obligations under the Office for Students ’ (OfS) regulatory condition E6.
The intention of this page is to bring together the relevant Universities' policies, procedures and support options in order to help prevent harassment and sexual misconduct by fostering a culture of dignity and respect.
The University does not tolerate instances of harassment or sexual misconduct.
We expect staff and students to foster a culture of accountability, mutual respect, and inclusivity and we encourage everyone to challenge inappropriate behaviour, where it is safe to do so.
Where instances of harassment or sexual misconduct are disclosed and reported to us, the University is committed to taking action, proportionate to the circumstances of the case.
The University recognises that both harassment or sexual misconduct can be experienced by any individual, regardless of sex, gender, sexual orientation, relationship status, age, disability, faith, race, ethnicity, nationality, or economic status.
We understand that experiences of sexual misconduct may intersect with other forms of discrimination and harassment, and therefore minority groups may be disproportionately affected.
Need to leave this webpage urgently?
A disclosure is when you tell the University about something that has happened to you.
We encourage all students to speak up if they’ve experienced or witnessed harassment or sexual misconduct.
You don’t have to know what you want to do next, whether you’re looking for support, information, or want to explore your options, we’re here to help.
Making a disclosure doesn’t mean you have to take any further action.
You can also choose to make a disclosure anonymously using the reporting options below.
A report is the first step in a more formal process with potential outcomes for the reported.
A formal report is the first step in a process that could lead to action being taken by the University.
If you make a disclosure and share your contact details, someone from Student Services will get in touch to offer support and talk you through your options.
This might include making a formal report, which allows the University to investigate what’s happened.
Inform us, as the reporting party, the responding party, or concerned other
Inform us, as the reporting party, or the responding party or a concerned other
I am a visitor, contractor or member of external organisation, and wish to report a concern.
A range of support is available within and outside the University for students who have experienced harassment and sexual misconduct:
Students can access support by making an initial disclosure, this means telling us what’s happened.
Click the red button below.
After a disclosure, Student Services will contact you to talk through your options.
Support may include speaking with a Sexual Violence Liaison Officer, accessing our counselling or mental health services, or getting advice from the Union of Students.
Students who are facing allegations will be assigned a named staff member for support.
Support is also available from Student Services and the Union of Students.
Access our resource bank to find out about additional support available.
Whether you're on a short placement, a year-long industrial placement, or a field trip in the UK or abroad, you can still access support from the University if you experience harassment or sexual misconduct in the workplace.
If you make a disclosure, Student Services will contact you to discuss how we can best support you.
This applies even if you’ve already reported the incident to your placement provider or employer, the University can still offer help and guidance.
Staff can access support whether they’re raising a concern or responding to an allegation.
Support is available through your line manager, the Employee Assistance Programme (via the PEC SharePoint pages), or your Trade Union representative.
To access support, make a disclosure using the relevant button below.
Speak to an SVLO, as the reporting party, or the responding party
Get support from the UoS, as the reporting party, or the responding party
Staff support as the reporting party, or the responding party
The following policies are relevant to how we investigate allegations of student harassment and sexual misconduct:
The University's Sexual Misconduct Policy defines what sexual misconduct is and sets out the University’s approach to preventing and addressing sexual misconduct.
The University’s Student Code of Conduct (Student) and Harassment and Bullying Policy (Staff) define harassment and sets out the University’s approach to preventing and addressing harassment.
In terms of how incidents are investigated:
The procedures listed above set out how allegations will be investigated fairly, including timescales, stages, possible sanctions and appeal provisions.
As defined under Section 26 (2) of the Equality Act 2010 and the Office for Students: unwanted conduct of a sexual nature that violates a person’s dignity or creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating, or offensive environment.
By Law (Worker Protection Act 2023) all employers must take reasonable steps to prevent sexual harassment of their employees.
The law covers sexual harassment from other people at work and third parties for example customers and clients.
Harassment includes unwanted behaviour or conduct which has the purpose or effect of violating a person’s dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment, or causing a person distress or alarm.​
Harassment may consist of persistent behaviour, although one single act may be considered sufficiently serious to warrant disciplinary action.​
Actions may be harassment whether or not the person behaving in that way intends to cause offence.
Actions may also be considered harassment if they are conducted online.
These behaviours or conduct might be because of, or connected to, one or more of the following protected characteristics:​
Any intentional sexual act performed without consent, as defined in the Sexual Offences Act 2003, including rape, sexual assault or other non-consensual sexual activity.
Any physical, verbal, or non-verbal behaviour of a sexual nature that is non- consensual.
This may include kissing, touching, or pressuring someone into a sexual act through coercion, manipulation, or intimidation.
Distribution of intimate images or recordings without consent, often referred to as "revenge porn" (Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015).
Consent means choosing for something to happen.
A person gives consent when they agree by choice, and have the freedom and capacity to make that choice.
When you reach out to support any questions around consent that you have can be explored further.
Abuse of power means a situation where a relevant staff member* exploits their position of power in relation to a student, to apply pressure in a way which:
For example, this could be by pressuring a student into doing something (sexual or otherwise) that they’re uncomfortable with, unfairly influencing grades or opportunities, or creating a hostile or intimidating environment.
This includes any behaviour that takes advantage of the staff-student power imbalance.
*A relevant staff member means a member of staff who has direct academic responsibilities, or other direct professional responsibilities, in relation to that student
** An intimate personal relationship mean any relationship that involves:
The person(s) who has made a formal report regarding an experience of sexual misconduct.
The person(s) named in a formal report who is alleged to have committed an act of sexual misconduct.
Below you will find additional information about our response and support for students and staff.
We have a number of policies in place demonstrating our commitment to protecting students from any actual or potential harassment or sexual misconduct.
Our Sexual Misconduct Policy
This is a whole university community policy.
The policy covers all staff, students, visitors and contractors.
The policy details what happens if you, or someone you know, experiences harassment or sexual misconduct by anyone linked to the University.
Student code of conduct
The University aims to provide all of its students with the support and guidance they need to achieve and succeed.
The Student Code of Conduct sets out the standard of conduct the University expects of its students so that everyone can undertake their studies in a supportive and non-threatening environment.
This policy includes our expectations in relation to harassment.
How we work
This sets out our expectations on ways of working for all staff and governors at the University of Derby and details our commitment to protecting students from any actual or potential conflict of interest and/or abuse of power that may arise from intimate personal relationships with staff
Bullying and Harassment policy
This policy is for all staff and governors at the University of Derby and details our approach to protecting community members from harassment and bullying.
Safeguarding
Our safeguarding policy and appendix can be found here.
Visitors code of conduct
Our expectations of visitors conduct and behaviour while with us on campus.
The University operates a ban on intimate personal relationships between students and 'relevant staff members'.
We do not allow staff to start new intimate personal relationships with students they directly teach, supervise, support, or have professional or security responsibilities for.
It is a staff member’s responsibility to inform us of any existing or developing relationship with a student, regardless of their role, so that appropriate steps can be taken to manage potential issues.
This can be done through our declaration form .
Any relationships must be declared in all cases as detailed in the How We Work Policy.
We understand that confidentiality is important in creating an environment where students and staff feel safe to raise concerns about harassment and sexual misconduct.
We will always seek to protect, as far as reasonably practicable, the privacy and personal data of anyone involved in a disclosure, report, or complaint.
The University of Derby has signed the 'Can’t Buy My Silence’s Universities Pledge .
This means that we will not use non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) in relation to complaints of sexual harassment, abuse, misconduct, or other forms of harassment.
In addition, since September 2024 the Office for Students has prohibited universities from using NDAs in relation to student allegations of harassment and sexual misconduct.
The University is committed to upholding freedom of speech within the law and academic freedom as core principles of higher education.
In compliance with our legal and regulatory duties, our efforts to prevent and respond to harassment and sexual misconduct are balanced with the need to protect lawful speech and academic freedom.
View our Freedom of Speech Code of Practice .
The University has a duty to protect its staff and students from unlawful discrimination, harassment, intimidation or threats of violence on the grounds of race, sex, age, religion or philosophical belief, sexual orientation, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, or pregnancy or maternity.
However, the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 should not be interpreted to undermine freedom of speech and academic freedom.
As a result, students’ learning experience and the working environment of staff may include exposure to research, course material, discussion or speakers’ views that they find offensive, contentious or unacceptable, but are nonetheless within the law, and unlikely to be considered unlawful harassment or discrimination under the Equality Act 2010.
We are committed to taking steps that will make a significant and credible difference to protecting students from harassment and sexual misconduct.
External Support
Sexual Violence Liaison Officer (SVLO)
Training
There is a range of support available to all members of our University community affected by harassment and sexual misconduct.
Take a look at the resource bank.
The role of a SVLO is to assist the reporting party or the responding party in accessing the support they need following an incident of harassment and sexual misconduct, without judgement or pressure on the person to take action.
They take on the single point of contact role to support the student.
The University provides specific training to support staff and students around the subject of harassment and sexual misconduct.
Explore the training options below.
Our Staff Training, 'Harassment, Bullying and Sexual Misconduct', is available through the staff intranet MyLearning page.
More information, guidance and external support.
Find out more about our SVLO team
Our Student training is built into our induction process, for all new and returning students.
We provide training on 'Consent Matters' and 'Tackling Harassment and Sexual Misconduct'.
Our Student leaders and sports clubs are also required to undertake consent training prior to undertaking certain University activities.
We closely monitor and evaluate our prevalence data in relation to harassment and sexual misconduct which is overseen by our Governing Council.
We are also committed to ensuring ongoing engagement and consultation with our Union of Students to ensure our student body voice is continues to be represented in our ongoing developments and reflections, in relation to our prevention strategy and future policy development.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/student-support/what-support-services-are-available.php:
[We begin with Alice in Kedleston Road Atrium]
Alice: Today I'm finding out about the different types  of support we provide to our students to help them succeed during their time at University, both personally and academically.
[Montage of student walking up driveway, students chatting in Basecamp, before we cut to Alice with Sarah in Basecamp]
Alice: So hi Sarah: you're Head of Student Services at  the University of Derby.
What does that involve?
Sarah: Hi Alice.
So Student Services at the University  of Derby has several teams which are dedicated to supporting our students through the entire student  journey.
So in our teams we've got the counselling team, we've got mental health support, we've got  disability, and we've got a team dedicated to providing advice and guidance around money.
We're also really fortunate here at Derby that we've got an on-site GP, Park Medical Practice, and we've  also got a dedicated Multi-Faith Centre which offers a range of pastoral and spiritual support.
Alice: And how do students get started with accessing all this support?
Sarah: So there's multiple ways that  students can access support at Derby: you can phone us, you can email us, or you can access a  range of support and advice and guidance via our web pages.
We've got a range of self-help supports  on the web pages including the fantastic Talk Campus app which delivers peer-on-peer support  for our students.
The support that we put in place will be bespoke, tailored to the student needs,  and it can flex and bend according to their needs throughout the journey of their studies.
Alice: Sending your son or daughter off to university can be a really exciting but potentially overwhelming time.
What advice do you have to offer them?
Sarah: Absolutely Alice, and we recognise that.
The key  advice that we would provide is to encourage their son, daughter, or the learner, to get in touch with Student Services as soon as possible.
That can even be before they come to campus and start their studies.
Alice: And how does the support that the University offers its students differ from that that they might have received at school?
Sarah: The key difference is that it's student-led.
The University won't implement the support automatically; we wait for the learner to come to  us when they feel ready to receive that support, or when they disclose.
Alice: So what happens where students might need a different type of support, perhaps it's academic help that they need?
Sarah: So the support that we provide at university involves a range of other  internal and external departments and organisations.
One of the key teams that we work with is the College Student Centres, who will provide a range of academic  support and advice and guidance.
[We see a University flag blowing outside Kedleston Road, and cut to Alice now with Natalie in the Library]
Alice: Hi Nat, I've just been finding out about the  support provided by our Student Services team.
How does that differ from what you do in the  College Student Centres?
Nat: So the College Student Centres are a dedicated place for information, advice, guidance and support around any academic or student queries that you may have.
We've got  a dedicated team of personal college advisors who will be there to answer any query that you've  got or alternatively signpost you to one of our specialist services such as Student Wellbeing  or the wider student services team.
Ultimately, the College Student Centre is that first point  of contact and what I would say to you is if you don't know who to speak to or where to go,  come to your College Student Center and they'll be able to point you in the right direction or  answer that query for you.
Alice: And what sorts of things can you offer that advice on?
Nat: First of all we'll start off with enrolment.
So help you through your registration and get you enrolled on your course.
We can answer those queries that you may have about your student loan, and also help you get your Unicard that gets you into the University.
We can also help you with your academic program advice as well.
So whether that's queries around the regulations or your overall degree classification.
We can support you with student support letters.
So that means if you need to open a bank account, or alternatively approve your council tax status as well.
We can help you if you're struggling with assignments and support you with a request for additional consideration if you're not able to meet your deadlines.
And also we can support you with your attendance and engagement as well.
Alice: How do you help our students to stay on track with  their studies?
Nat: So the way in which we support our students to stay on track with their studies is  through our student engagement monitoring.
so what we do is we monitor student attendance to ensure  that they can get the best possible academic outcomes.
We know that good attendance means that  you're less likely to withdraw or fail on your course and get that best degree outcome.
Alice: So where  students might be struggling with their studies, how can you help with that?
Nat: So there's lots of people that they can talk to at the University.
First of all they've got the support from their  academic team: so you've got your module leader, and the module leader can talk to them about  the module content and also their deadlines.
You've then got your programme leader who can  talk about the wider course content and any support that they need in relation to that.
They've got their Personal Academic Tutor who can help them with academic advancement  and give them some coaching to get the best possible degree outcomes and then finally as  you've mentioned with Sarah, we've got Student Services in our Wellbeing team who can help with  support plans and any mental health enquiries.
Alice: Thanks Nat, so lots of support available for  our students to make sure they can succeed.
[We cut to Alice back in the Kedleston Road Atium]
Alice: Coming to university is exciting, but it can  also feel overwhelming at times.
To help, we offer a range of services to support you  both during your application and when you start studying with us.
Whether you have questions  about your course, concerns about your wellbeing, or just need some advice or reassurance,  our friendly expert teams are here to help.
[University of Derby logo]
Back to Student support

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/charter:
The European Commission hereby awards this Charter to University of Derby.
The Institution undertakes to respect the following principles:
The Institution further undertakes to:
On behalf of the Institution, I recognise that implementation of the Charter will be monitored and that violation of any of the above principles and commitments may lead to its withdrawal by the European Commission.
Signed
John Coyne Legal representative
UK DERBY01

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/study-abroad/policy-statement:
The Erasmus Charter awarded to the University of Derby by the European Commission.
The University of Derby is committed to a process of internationalisation of all aspects of its work, recognising the significant benefits of such an approach.
Through the implementation of a comprehensive approach to internationalisation, the University expects:
That effective engagement with students from around the world will enrich the curriculum, broaden the learning experience, and bring benefits to all our students.
That the recruitment of high-calibre students from home, the EU and from countries outside the EU and engagement with high quality partners across the globe will enable the University to further enhance its reputation and further raise its profile.
That a deep engagement with internationalisation ensures that the experience of both students and staff is kept relevant to an increasingly globalised but diverse community.
Moreover, our commitment to internationalisation will make a positive contribution to employment prospects and, where relevant, employment mobility.
That steady commitment to its work in internationalisation will help the University to maintain its strong position and will support a strategy of continuing investment in the student and staff experience, while at the same time ensuring that in our international work we pay particular regard to the impact on the environment and wider global issues.
Working in partnership with other organisations/institutions is fundamental to the way in which we meet our strategic aims of promoting participation in higher and further education, contributing to regional economic growth and strengthening the internationalism of the University.
The scope of partnership activity is diverse and ranges from working with partners to increase access to further and higher education, through to collaborative ventures whereby the University enters into a formal partnership with an organisation/institution to meet educational needs.
As part of its Partnership strategy, the University of Derby invests in the research, identification and development of partnerships with counter-part EU and non-EU institutions.
In order to filter and prioritise partnership development activity, the University works within the national audit frameworks provided by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA).
Derby also uses an internal pathway system which includes quality and audit ‘gateways’.
These gateways require the provision and approval of documentation and evidence which is supplementary to the QAA process and which has been developed to comply with internal audit requirements.
The process also ensures institutional visibility.
Partners are chosen using various criteria, including:
University of Derby partnerships are drawn currently from wider Europe, including Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, and Sweden.
Part of the University focus is to encourage development of partnerships with institutions in countries where academic development and modernisation are priority factors contributing to socio-economic development.
Wider development activity currently includes Latin America (in particular Brazil), Middle East (in particular Qatar) and Far East (in particular Vietnam, China and Malaysia).
Staff who participate on Erasmus international mobility activities are expected to:
Students who participate on Erasmus mobility programmes are expected to:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/blog/posts/23/february/studying-abroad-in-thailand:
Computer Science student Robert headed to Thailand for a month to expand his scientific and mathematic knowledge.
By Robert Forynski - 27 February 2023
19 June 2022 was a special day for me.
It was the day I started my Turing Scheme traineeship to study abroad.
I was proud and very happy to be a part of this wonderful journey to visit Thailand and join King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi (KMUTT) for a month.
As a BSc (Hons) Computer Science student at the University of Derby, I had a great prospect to work with the best mathematicians and scientists led by Professor Poom Kumam, Director of the Center of Excellence in Theoretical and Computational Science (TaCS-CoE) at KMUTT.
The opportunity to join the Turing Scheme was announced by my Computational Mathematics Professor Ovidiu Bagdasar.
Because I enjoyed the engaging module during my studies, I decided to apply, and ultimately I was successful and granted to go to Thailand.
I travelled with two of my University of Derby peers who went onto a different university, located in northern Bangkok: Rajamangala University of Technology Thanyaburi (RMUTT).
I was able to work with and learn from knowledgeable scientists including Profressor Wiyada Kumam, Dr Printaporn Sanguansuttigul, Dr Kornwut Kammahawong, Dr Parin Chaipunya, Dr Jamilu Abubakar, and other members engaged in the development of science and fields of mathematics.
Attending meetings and lectures helped me improve my mathematical skills, extend my knowledge, and showed my different approaches and methodologies used by scientists.
On daily basis I was conducting scientific research related to mathematics, computing and engineering, mostly focused on optimization, algorithms, iterative methods and machine learning.
My hosts enabled me to understand and develop nonlinear functional analysis and comprehend Fixed Point Theory and its applications.
The amount of knowledge and the level of complexity were a bit challenging for me, especially at the beginning, but thanks to my very approachable tutors and lecturers, I was able to be involved in many interesting and meaningful activities.
If you are interested in studying abroad, I advise you to carefully consider what area of study you would like to expand.
Every destination is unique and universities vary from specialised fields to more universal ones, but all of them guarantee progress and development.
It can be challenging sometimes – but it is worth it.
While I was out of the country, I got support from my university peers and most importantly from coordinating Professor Ovidiu Bagdasar.
I felt confident, well-prepared, and safe, even 6,000 miles from home.
I have improved my knowledge about some absolutely mind-blowing theorems and their applications, and I have benefited from working with great scientists.
I am still in touch with many people I was introduced to in Bangkok.
Simply, I made friends.
These connections will stay with me forever – I will definitely go back to Bangkok in the near future.
If you’re thinking of taking part in the Turing Scheme, here are some tips you might find useful.
I embarked on a 12-hour flight to Thailand and you also could be travelling long-haul.
Be prepared by bringing things like a neck rest, headphones or a good book.
The first thing to do after arrival is to buy a SIM card.
After this, I got an app called Grab which allowed me to book taxis, order food, and much more.
Thailand is quite cheap, so going out for dinner or travelling by taxi wasn’t too expensive.
My next tip would be to enjoy your spare time by travelling or taking part in activities.
I benefited from playing football and other sports.
I also travelled around the big capital city and went to see the seaside in the south.
I tried many delicious local dishes, even a grilled scorpion!
Visiting their famous temples was also a great experience.
There’s so much worth seeing so it’s good to be prepared and plan what you’d like to do.
The application to take part in the Turing Scheme and the traineeship itself were well prepared and I cannot fault anything in the whole process.
Great communication, fantastic people and beautiful places.
Most importantly it was a wonderful chance to improve my skills and contribute to innovative projects.
If you have an opportunity to apply to study abroad , go for it.
It is an amazing experience that cannot be missed.
Give yourself a head start in today’s global jobs market with our study or work abroad opportunities.
Robert Forynski is a beginner, enthusiastic University of Derby student and freelance full-stack developer looking for development opportunities in the IT industry.
Determined and open-minded, constantly expanding his knowledge, he will be happy to talk about my programming projects.
He is looking for opportunities to enhance his capabilities and acquire new experiences.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/blog/voluntary-work-experience-mexico:
Nursing student Natalia Martinez Soler volunteered for placement during her second year helping migrants in Mexico, funded through the Turing Scheme and a supplementary College of Health, Psychology and Social Care travel award.
By Natalia Martinez Soler - 22 December 2022
I have always thought that volunteering abroad can be a positive experience for my personal and professional life, as it would help me develop new connections with people and the environment and create meaningful experiences and memories.
And what attracted me the most about the Mexico placement was the project itself, I thought it would be a good opportunity to better understand the social determinants of health and health inequalities linked to migration.
Anyone interested in volunteering abroad should enquire about the opportunities offered by the University of Derby and check their programme requirements beforehand.
My programme leader was very supportive through the whole process, they worked with my academic tutor and module leaders and lecturers to accommodate my needs and adjust any deadlines.
The University of Derby and Projects Abroad provided me with all the information I needed.
And I attended face-to-face and online meetings when every step of the process was explained to me and I could clarify all the doubts I had and ease any pre-travelling anxieties!
One piece of advice I would give to anyone is to manage your time well and make a plan to work on any deadlines and final assignments before you leave.
This will help you not to think about any unfinished work while you are abroad, and you will fully enjoy the experience.
If you are organised, this is possible!
Projects Abroad is a company with more than 25 years of experience in addressing the social and environmental challenges of different communities around the world.
Their programmes provide an experience for volunteers to understand the current issues happening in the places they visit and make a positive impact on these communities.
FM4 is one of the volunteering placements they offer.
It is a non-profit organisation based in Guadalajara that aims to promote the human rights of migrants and refugees.
My job as a volunteer was to provide support for them at an aid shelter.
Mexico is a transit country for many migrants and refugees who move from Central America and other countries in search of a better life in the United States, although some chose to remain in Mexico.
Many of them are forced to leave their countries for different reasons, including violence and poor economic conditions.
Working alongside the migrants and other volunteers, I saw the challenges they faced throughout their journey.
The fact of being labelled as a migrant adds many barriers to human rights, such as limited access to health, employment, housing or education.
During the nursing programme at the University of Derby, we learn through different modules that health is a fundamental human right that is often affected by its social determinants.
In this case, I realised how the place where you are born can affect the quality-of-life outcomes.
The location of the shelter was close to the train tracks, and we often received people with injuries.
This is because migrants and refugees often travel on top of a cargo train to avoid immigration controls.
However, the risk of injury and death from these journeys is high, as they have to climb aboard and jump off the moving train while it often moves at a very high speed.
Other risks they are exposed to when travelling on these trains are physical violence, robbery and sexual assault.
Whilst the journey is a violent one, these trains have been transporting migrants for many years.
This is a cruel reality that cannot be ignored, which made me think about how little information is shared on the migrants’ social situation and the need to address these inequalities.
While nongovernmental organisations, charities and campaigns make a valuable contribution to the journey of migrants and refugees, I realised that more support is needed from policymakers, health systems, government and other organisations in monitoring these groups and improving the services available to them.
During my time as a volunteer at the shelter, some of the tasks I was involved in included welcoming the migrants, explaining some ground rules of the shelter, doing security checks and offering them food and drinks.
Some of them had walked for 20 days and had little access to food or drink.
As a result, dehydration and malnutrition were common health issues.
Other tasks I was involved in were assisting with supplying clothes and organising donations, cooking, helping with humanitarian calls, keeping the shelter clean and participating in social immersion.
We sat together and shared different stories and played table football and instruments.
One way I developed my skills and self-confidence was to participate in delivering a CPR and First Aid training session for the migrants and volunteers.
We thought it was useful knowledge that could provide them with some basic skills to use on their journey to help themselves and others in emergency situations.
I contributed to the health promotion and infection prevention advice for wound care and used my skills in wound care and leg dressing, as many of the injuries I saw were to the limbs.
I realised how little things could make a difference in these people's lives.
In addition to the work at the shelter, I participated in a one-day medical outreach programme.
We travelled to a poor neighbourhood, where I had the opportunity to work with a doctor on needs assessment, physical assessment, history taking, diagnosis, detecting malnutrition, detecting risk factors in the environment and provision of medication.
This community had little access to health care and without this programme they would not receive any of the medical assistance and support they need.
It was a very rewarding experience and I learned how to maximise the use of limited resources.
Taking part in this project was an unforgettable experience that meant a lot to me.
I built supportive relationships with migrants, other volunteers, professionals from different fields and the Mexican community.
I connected with people from different backgrounds, which allowed me to open my mind and understand different cultures and opinions.
I learned different skills that I can apply to nursing and this community showed me a perfect example of resilience.
Some of the phrases that will stick in my mind are that we are all migrants, that no human being is illegal, and that healthcare is a human right.
I hope that one day there will be a world without borders and that more bridges will be built instead of walls.
After my volunteering placement in Guadalajara, I had time to reflect on how I could integrate what I had seen and experienced into my professional and personal learning.
I have realised how important it is to bring health closer to everyone and to make it accessible to all.
By learning how to adapt to work in a challenging environment and optimising the use of the few resources I had, I now have a greater appreciation of all the equipment and supplies that are available to us in everyday practice and how to use them effectively.
Natalia is a third-year student nurse at the University of Derby.
She studies Adult Nursing and is based at our Chesterfield site.
Her interests are: Travelling, learning from new cultures, dancing, nature, sea life, reading, cooking, voluntary work, socialising, healthcare and human rights.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/blog/internship-experience-malta:
Film Production student Mari Olan took the opportunity for a five-month internship with Malta Film Studios as part of the study abroad scheme.
By Mari Olan - 21 January 2020
If you have the opportunity to go on a study abroad programme, Film Production student Mari Olan has some advice for you.
DO IT!
No second thoughts.
Just do it.
Before we get into the specifics of my internship abroad, I first found out about this opportunity to study abroad before I had even started my journey at the University of Derby.
The option to go on a study abroad programme was one of my top deciding factors.
From the beginning, I knew that the work experience and exposure abroad would be beneficial for my professional and personal growth.
I think many students overlook this.
As students, we are used to sitting in lecture rooms listening and taking down notes.
But, to be good at your craft, it is crucial to put that theory into practice.
Your best chance of doing this is by taking part in a study abroad programme.
Those theories can only be mastered by putting yourself in real-life and industry-standard work, especially for courses like the one I did, Film Production.
So, during the second semester of my final year, I chose the alternative route to take part in a five-month internship in Malta.
Why did I go to Malta, you might ask?
How is it related to my Film Production course?
Having serviced over 200 feature films, movies, documentaries and commercials, Malta Film Studios (MFS) is considered to be one of the largest production facilities in the world.
It is most renowned for its special effects water facility featuring one indoor tank and two large exterior water tanks located along the coast, giving productions a natural landscape.
The studio’s vast range of water SFX equipment and experienced crew can make any special effects possible.
The company with which I completed my traineeship was set up to offer a wide range of production services.
These include short films, corporate promotional adverts, documentaries and online video content both for local and international markets.
They offer services from development all the way to finished product, covering the full spectrum of the film making process, which gave me the opportunity to work on all aspects of film making.
I had the chance of working on numerous projects varying from television, social media adverts and a feature-length film.
All of these had tighter deadlines than I am usually used to.
That said, I was challenged to work three times as hard and without allowing the quality of my work to suffer.
Most of the projects I worked on involved editing, basic colour-grading and sound mixing.
During my internship, I was able to work with many different people and I learned to adapt quickly.
Working with different people helped improve my communication skills as well as adaptability to other cultures, attitudes and practices.
I was extremely lucky to have been in Malta for my internship when a major foreign film production was in the country – which also happened to be produced by my employer.
He trusted me to work as the Second Assistant Director under the guidance of the First Assistant Director.
I am beyond grateful for having had this opportunity.
I was very much involved in the preparation of the production and also helped as many people as I possibly could on set.
Working with the water tanks in the Malta Film Studios has been an incredible and eye-opening experience.
I worked with around 50 crew members but the most fascinating part of my experience was seeing how the water tanks work.
We had to recreate open-water waves and a storm and watching this happen was unbelievable and extraordinary.
My involvement in this production was a pleasant and unforgettable experience.
I witnessed a true form of art and passion during my time working as a Second Assistant Director.
This experience has taught me not only determination and passion but also a better appreciation for the art of film.
It is truly humbling to have had the opportunity to work on a major feature film.
Other than that, I learned the day-to-day operation of a production company, how to communicate with clients and to adjust to their needs, especially when amending the project based on their feedback.
Resilience and modesty are crucial.
More importantly, I learned how to manage my time well and to prioritise even when I had multiple projects due at the same time.
Because of my internship, I gained an awareness of my skills, which is important to gauge your work time and your strengths and weaknesses.
Throughout the internship, I learned to take initiative and to stay grounded.
During my free time, I found myself discovering and exploring a new hobby.
I spent the last three months of my internship exploring Malta underwater.
It is, after all, the best diving spot in all of Europe.
With the free time that I had on weekends, I took it upon myself to work towards my dive licence.
Diving has allowed me not only to explore a new interest but also to discover Maltese culture, even underwater.
In addition, I have not only learned more about film making and gained new experiences, but I also learned more about myself and my environment.
I enjoyed putting myself in a new environment and learning to adapt to their way of life.
Likewise, I gained new useful skills both in film making and in my personal life.
I met many people who share the same passion as I do who also taught me how to become a better person and a better team member.
My internship in Malta has been a very valuable experience for myself and for all my colleagues.
Apart from technical skills, most importantly, I learned how to improve my communication skills, adaptability, time management and awareness of my skills.
I also learned to accept criticism and turn this into an opportunity to grow.
While I was in Malta, I kept in touch with my Programme Leader and Lecturer by sending them weekly updates.
This way, they could keep track of my progress.
They were also in communication with my employer in Malta to make sure that I was performing as he had expected.
Overall, everything went as smoothly as I had hoped.
I would definitely recommend studying abroad or doing an internship to any student who is given the opportunity to do so.
Choosing the alternative route for my final semester of university has been the best and most fulfilling decision I have made throughout university.
The opportunities I received during my time in Malta has made me more passionate and determined to continue my journey in the film-making industry.
Other than that, I have met many people from all and different walks of life who have allowed me to see things from a different light and to understand how cultural differences can affect how a team works.
Despite these differences, the film-making community continues to strive for the same goal.
Because of this experience, I became more confident in my skills and it has helped me become more employable.
In fact, every job interview I’ve had has asked about my internship in Malta.
As far as I am aware, the process of doing a study abroad programme is not universal.
Each programme is different and has different requirements so be sure to check ahead of time and talk to the relevant people.
For me, my main source of information was my Programme Leader.
Now, go and make your university experience worthwhile.
Learn more about studying abroad
I am currently studying Film Production at the University of Derby in England, UK and since then, I have produced and directed several short films in LA and the UK.
I also enjoy travelling a lot and exploring new cultures, including trying different cuisines.
With this said, I have been to over 20 countries.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/education-childhood-inclusion-courses/education-studies-ba-hons/sophie-semester-abroad:
As well as building new friendships, gaining more confidence and learning a new language, going on a semester abroad also gave Sophie clarity of what to do next when she graduates.
Sophie, an Education Studies BA (Hons) student, said: “I’ve decided that want to go and teach English in different countries.
I just love seeing the happiness on the kids’ faces when they’re learning new English words.”
And she has some exciting plans for the future.
“Since I put on my CV that I’ve studied abroad, I’ve had lots of people asking me to go and teach English in different countries,” she said.
“It’s helped me to figure out the next couple of years at least.”
After finding out more about studying abroad from the University's dedicated Goplaces team, Sophie applied and was successful in securing a place on a semester abroad at Saxion University in Enschede.
“I've always wanted to go and study abroad and then I had the opportunity, and I thought – “why not?” For my entire first year I kept thinking “I want to go now!”.
After arriving in the Netherlands, settling into her new temporary home and meeting her new classmates, Sophie was launched straight into university life.
“Once a week we went to different schools to visit them, see what they were like and help with teaching.
For me it was difficult compared to everyone else as the children were just learning English, so I had to have someone Dutch with me as a translator.”
She taught children from as young as four up to 13 and gained new teaching techniques to support what she had learned in her degree.
“The second half of the semester was just teaching every single day, so I taught for three months straight.”
Sophie’s experience has also helped her to build on her core transferable skills which will help her with any role or career she chooses in the future.
“I was not very confident in myself in general and I thought maybe this is what I need to figure out how confident I am.
And it did work.
I feel a lot more confident especially with uni-based work.
In the first year I was the quiet one who didn’t really speak, but that’s just because I didn’t have the confidence to speak to people.
But with studying abroad, you have to go and speak to people to make friends because they’re in the same position as you.
They’re scared and worried about how good their English is.
So sometimes you have to push yourself.
That’s what I hoped to gain from it and I think I have gained it.”
Sophie was advised to learn some Dutch before she travelled out to the Netherlands to help her communicate with others and with her teaching.
It’s resulted in an additional skill to add to her CV to set her apart when she graduates.
“In the Netherlands they have different phrases for one word so everyone taught me all the different ones.
I've kind of gained a second language because I’m continuing to learn it.
I think it’ll be nice to carry on as it’s not that hard to learn.”
She also has an insight into the differences in culture between England and the Netherlands.
As well as discovering that the country loves cheese at every meal and always say ‘cheers’ to each other when they have a drink, Sophie learned that everyone in her class owned a pet cow.
“I remember trying to explain what a Wetherspoons was as I was like this is a staple of the UK, and we ended up having a 20-minute conversation about it.
And then they were all like “we just thought you ate fish and chips!”."
Sophie came away from her experience with more than job opportunities.
She met new people and formed lasting friendships.
“I think studying abroad really helps if you want to have new experiences and gain more friends.
I had a few friends before I went to the Netherlands but now I have a wider circle of friends and that’s nice to have, especially when you get a different view on the world from different cultures.”
Despite only knowing her new friends for six months, Sophie says they are all very close now.
“We talk to each other every day and we keep each other up to date with our lives.
I’ve been invited to a friend’s wedding which I’m going to have to fly to a different country for.
Then I’m going to Milan to go visit one of my friends in a couple of months and then in December, I’m off to Iceland to go see another friend.”
Reflecting on her time studying abroad, Sophie has some advice for anyone else thinking of taking up the opportunity.
“One of the biggest challenges for me was struggling with not being with my family and leaving people.
But after a couple of days, you get used to it and you make friends.
I was worried but you don’t need to be at all.”

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/employability/employability-awards:
The University of Derby’s Employability Awards celebrate students, staff and external partners who have made highly significant contributions towards student employability during the academic year 2020-21.
The University of Derby’s Employability Awards celebrates students, staff and external partners who have made highly significant contributions towards student employability during the academic year 2020-21.
All of our involved parties were invited to make nominations which were then judged by an independent panel against the proposed awards criteria.
This year 225 nominations were submitted in total, the most we have ever received.
Thank you to everyone who took the time to nominate.
Congratulations to all winners and runners up!
Find us on social media to discover more about the awards.
Facebook Twitter Instagram
Don't worry if you missed the Careers and Employment Services - Employability Awards 2021, you can now watch the live stream back.
View Employability Awards 2021 video transcript and audio description
“I am delighted to support this annual event to celebrate the achievements of the academic year and recognise the contributions from staff, students and our external stakeholders towards student employability.
Through another challenging year, it is a great pleasure to see the achievements, successes and journeys which have taken place.
I would like to congratulate each nominee and winner and wish you all every success for the future.”
Professor Kathryn Mitchell DL
Academics are at the heart of what we do as a University and their support in developing our students’ employability is invaluable.
Students and staff were invited to nominate for this award which recognises those who have championed employability throughout this academic year.
Winner: Sanita Nezirovic
Runners up:
The Be the Boss Programme offers our enterprising students and graduates the support to set up their own business with a programme of activities along with access to business advice to help get them started.
This scheme has seen fantastic uptake since its launch with over 143 businesses created.
Winner: Michelle Chard (Mimmi's Soul Food)
Runners up: Tyra Tucker, Will Brown, David Phoenix, Will Kitchen, Martyna Tomaszewska (Not a Goose)
The University works with a variety of community and voluntary organisations across the city and region that provide volunteering and work experience opportunities for our students and graduates and gives them the opportunity to make a positive contribution in the community.
Staff and students were invited to nominate organisations for this award.
Winner: Bumblebee Conservation Trust (Rhodri Green)
Runners up: NSPCC (Kuljinder Nahal and Tasha Lynn)
As a University we work with a wide variety of organisations across many sectors and disciplines that provide a great range of opportunities for our students and graduates.
Careers and Employment Service staff were invited to nominate organisations for this award.
Joint winners:
The Futures Award recognises co-curricular, employability related activity including volunteering, our Union of Students and social media.
University staff and external partners were invited to nominate students who had made an impact through their work for the Futures Award.
This award recognises a graduate who has demonstrated commitment to their early career development.
They may have secured a graduate job, undertaken an internship, accessed personal development through careers appointments or events, gained experience in a voluntary role, or been a role model to other students and soon-to-be graduates.
Winner: Emma Rodrigues
Runner up: Tyra Tucker
Our students who take part in the Careers and Employment Employer Mentoring Scheme are matched with an experienced professional who can share their knowledge and skills.
They have the benefit of talking to employers to gain an insight into their industry and discuss their own future employment potential.
All of our current Mentors were invited to nominate their Mentee for this award.
Winner: Beth Price
The employability awards are an amazing way to celebrate students gaining the volunteering and work experience opportunities that will help them to develop the skills to find employment and succeed during and after their studies.
The Careers and Employment Mentoring Scheme alongside other mentoring opportunities across the University offer students and graduates the opportunity to be mentored by a professional from our local business community.
All of our current Mentees were invited to nominate their Mentor for this award.
Joint Winners:
This award recognises students who have worked hard to develop their employability skills, either through engagement with their curriculum or specific opportunities, with the goal to make themself more employable.
Careers and Employment Service staff were invited to nominate for this award.
Our Student Employment Agency works as a temporary recruitment agency for both internal departments and external employers.
All managers who work with the service were invited to nominate students who had worked for them, demonstrating their skills and understanding in a professional environment.
Winner: Barbora Horackova - Centre for Learning and Excellence , University of Derby
Volunteering is a great way for our students to develop employability skills whilst making a difference in the community.
We encourage our students to undertake volunteering outside of their studies.
Charities and Community Organisations who have hosted our students and graduates as volunteers were invited to nominate for this award.
Winner: Matthew LeDoux Deakin - British Acoustic Neuroma Association
This award recognises employers who hosted students either through Driven, the curriculum embedded micro-placement or our Year in Industry programme.
All students who had completed any form of work experience, internship or micro-placement were able to nominate their employer for this award.
Winner: Saint Benedict Catholic Voluntary Academy (Michael Hilton)
This award recognises students who have completed a micro-placement in curriculum, an extra-curricular internship through Driven or completed a Year in Industry.
All businesses that had recruited an intern and organisations that had hosted a placement were invited to nominate a student or graduate that had made an impact on their organisation.
Winners: Sarah Mason - Derby City Council
Runners Up:
This award recognises our final year students who have made a great endeavour to prepare for the world of work by enhancing their skills and raising their profile.
Winner: Thomas Berrington
We’re excited to be hosting our Careers Connection Week from 14 to 22 October this year.
This is a fantastic week of employability activity including the annual careers fair and volunteering fair, webinars, alumni panels, social media takeovers, employer endorsed skills sessions and more.
If you are an employer or charity interested in finding out how your organisation can be involved in the week of events or would like to discuss working with us more broadly get in touch with us at employerteam@derby.ac.uk .
Learn more about offering work opportunities

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/employability/placements:
If you don’t already have placements integrated into your course, you can choose to take an optional placement year between your second and third years of undergraduate study.
This means your degree will take four years to complete instead of three.
They typically last a full academic year and are available in a wide range of industries.
You'll apply what you've learned in your course to a professional setting and bring workplace insights back to your studies in your final year.
You'll usually earn a salary and get paid for your work, making it a great way to gain experience while supporting yourself financially.
Unlike internships, which are usually shorter and often take place during the summer, a placement year is a longer-term commitment that provides more in-depth experience and responsibility within an organisation.
It's also a great way to boost your employability, develop transferable skills, and explore a potential career path to see if it's the right fit for you.
Many students find that a placement year increases their confidence, helps them put theory into practice, and better prepares them for graduate jobs.
A placement year gives you the chance to:
If you’re thinking of completing a placement, you can join the Placement Academy which will offer support and guidance throughout the process, including help with searching for roles, applications and interviews.
You will receive support, but it is your responsibility to secure a placement.
Our Derby Talent Team work closely with local, national and international organisations to provide you with exciting placement opportunities.
In the past, our students have completed placements with organisations such as:
Once you’ve secured a placement, you’ll need to register it with us by completing a placement information form .
You will be allocated a Personal Academic Tutor who will stay in contact with you and will visit you in your workplace.
You’re eligible if you’re a full-time undergraduate student in your second year, and your course doesn’t already have a built-in or compulsory placement.
Lydia and Joel, two students at the University of Derby talk about their placement years and the experience they gained from a year in industry.
View Student Lydia shares her insightful journey following a placement year with Lubrizol.
View Student Joel discusses his experience on placement with Wincanton.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/employability/student-employment-agency:
The Student Employment Agency (SEA) helps current students and recent graduates find paid, temporary jobs both at the University of Derby and with local employers.
If you're a current student, you can register for the SEA and apply for a wide range of temporary and part-time roles.
These jobs are a great way to earn some extra money, build your skills, and gain work experience while you study.
To register, go to the UniHub careers page and log in with your university email.
If you secure a role through the SEA, you are required by law to complete a right to work check.
You cannot begin working until this check has been completed
If you’ve recently graduated, you can still use SEA for up to two years after finishing your course.
Are you proud to study at the University of Derby?
Are you passionate about your course and keen to share your experiences about university with others?
If the answer is yes, you may be interested in ...

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/employability/career-fairs:
The Careers and Employment Service hosts Career Fairs for current students and recent graduates.
These events are a great way to meet employers, find job opportunities explore different career options, and find out what organisations are looking for.
Whether you're searching for a graduate job, placement, internship, or just want to improve your networking skills, Career Fairs are for everyone.
We run both general fairs and events tailored to specific colleges.
In the past, we've welcomed a wide range of employers, including Rolls-Royce, JCB, Experian, Enterprise, and the NHS.
Ask about graduate roles, placement and internship opportunities, and get tips on recruitment pr...
With over 25 emplo...
The Engineering and Technology Careers Fair on Thursday 6 November is ideal for students interested in careers and employers across the engineering and technology sectors, who are actively recruiting ...
The event is perfect for students interested in legal careers, criminal justice, policing, ...
Jess shares how she discovered her graduate role at a Careers Fair and applied the same day!
View Jess’ experience of finding a graduate role video transcript
If you are an employer, you can register your interest to attend our events and share your opportunities with our students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/employability/careers-and-employment-service.php:
A careers advisor standing in the careers and employment service area at the Kedleston Road campus begins to speak whilst walking towards the camera.
"Welcome to the Careers and Employment Service, otherwise known as The Hub."
We see a student walking to the Kedleston Road campus and a student and staff member standing in The Hub.
"We're so excited to see you this September."
A student points to a laptop during an advice session.
We also see a student holding a camera and another student picking up a large canvas.
"So we'll be here to offer online and in-person support and we can help you with anything from placements to work experience and when it comes to it we'll help you find that graduate job."
Another advisor speaks...
"As part of the skills program, you will be asked to complete the careers registration, which will help us to understand your needs for the next year."
We see a student showing a staff member their computer screen during an advice session.
"Remember, if you don't know what to do, talk to us we are here to help you every step of the way."
The screen fades to black and shows the University of Derby three peaks logo.
Back to Careers and employability

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-stories/chloe:
She’d spent the first 18 years of her life in a little farmhouse in the middle of a field in the Oxfordshire countryside.
Now, she’s a Fashion Design graduate and she’s creating custom race suits for global names in motorcycle racing.
Chloe admits she wasn’t sure about going to university.
She says: “I was definitely 50-50 on whether I should go.
I didn’t have any older friends or older siblings to ask them what their experiences were like.
So I was going into it completely in the dark.
“And I came from quite a small school where I knew exactly where every room was so to go to a university that was spread around a city was just so intimidating.
But I didn't know what else to do.
“I didn't really think I wanted to go into a job and I didn't know what that job would be so I thought let's widen my education and go that one step up and get a degree and that will open more doors.
And it did.
And I'm glad that I did it.
“Before uni, I didn't really know a lot about my strengths and I hadn't even really had the chance to learn about them or the chance to explore and figure out what I was good at.
That's definitely changed now.
I definitely now know how to use my strengths and I know what they are, I know what I'm worth, so definitely much more confident.”
View Chloe's story video transcript
Chloe knew she wanted to make the most of her opportunities at university.
But she also knew her limitations.
She says: “Part of university is being able to build your portfolio because it gives you the time and resources you need.
And then also the connection it gives you to possible employers and placement opportunities.
Opportunities above anything else.
“We did a four-week placement in the second year and that helped me get a foot in the door.
I did mine at a little museum.
I wanted a small placement, something that wasn’t too intimidating because I was afraid and not very independent.
If I was ever going to do a placement year, I needed to just start with something and take that first step.
“The University has so many connections to these huge companies but also to these small companies.
It does give you quite a variety of options to go for.”
After that first step, despite her fears, and with the encouragement of her placement tutor, Chloe took up her placement year with BCI, a firm that designs licensed clothing for Primark and other brands.
She worked most of that time in product development, then moved to the design team.
She says: “I had that fear to do it, and doing it anyway, I think that was important.
I learned so much and experienced so much.
It opened so many doors for me and showed me what I actually was capable of.”
Chloe is now working for Motodirect, creating racing suits for riders such as Alex Lowes, Lee Johnston and Sébastien Charpentier.
She’s even made one for Olympic gold medal winning cyclist Ed Clancy.
This seems a step away from the designer whose final-year outfit was inspired by 1980s hip-hop and graffiti.
But Chloe disagrees: “I am passionate about anything that I can make look cool or beautiful.
“In my final year of fashion, I really honed in on my main passion which would be mixing function with fashion and them being one and the same.
I don't think we see it enough, especially in women's wear.
But just in general, mixing safety with fashion and functionality and making clothes more than just how they look.
And creating products that I'm proud of.
“I do that in my job now designing motorcycle gear.
Every suit is unique to each rider, which is really cool.
And then it's my job to explain how that works, how it protects the rider, the different parts of the suits, the protective cups and the armour and where the Kevlar is and just the build of the suit itself.
And explain the airbag systems.
Yes, we do have an airbag suit now.
The airbag is integrated into the suit.
I had no idea anything like that existed before I worked at the company.”
Chloe can trace her passion for fashion with function back to her dad working on the farm, when the clothing he used for one job wasn’t necessarily suitable for the next.
She explains.
“On the farm, there's hundreds of different jobs that you do even just in one day.
I just automatically wanted to put it all in one piece so these garments could be worn for so many different jobs.”
Chloe went to Open Days at a number of universities, including Derby, to help her make her decision.
Or rather: “My mum was dragging me.
She had to force me into the car.
I was so scared.”
Her first impressions of Derby?
“I was more overwhelmed than anything else,” she says.
“I was impressed by all of the students who were at the stands on the Open Day and how much they wanted to talk to you and how willing they were to answer your questions.
And, yeah, I was very shy and I didn't really speak to that many people.”
She was convinced Derby was the right place for her when came for an interview.
She explains: “It was when I saw the Fashion building in Chandos Pole Street .
Despite the fact it's in what, to me, was a big city, there was this building just for Fashion and Textiles .
It's just two storeys but it's got everything you need in there.
It was just a really nice, it felt very communal in there.
“And I started speaking to the lecturers and just meeting other students.
And I got excited and sort of the fear turned into excitement.
I could actually see myself going to university.”
I thought, oh yeah, I actually want to go to university now.
I actually want to do this.
I want to work here and I want to learn in these rooms.
It's kind of like a wedding dress, I think, like, when you know, you know.
Just a year after they finished their degree, Film Production graduates Josh, Ben, Odhran and James are running their own production company full-time – with a growing reputation for their work.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/study/employability/generation-next:
Established in 2020, Generation Next is a professional network for entrepreneurs and employees aged 18 to 35 across the East Midlands.
Generation Next was created as a platform for aspiring business people in the East Midlands region.
Its mission is to help those people to grow and develop, and by doing so, retain the skills of a thriving region, producing better businesses, better ideas, and better minds.
It provides forward-thinking people with the experience and opportunities to take them where they want to go.
By joining this vibrant and diverse community, individuals can connect with like-minded people, develop their skills and open the door to new opportunities.
Members can build their networks through formal and informal networking events and mentoring, learn new professional skills through a dedicated programme of educational workshops, and get access to blogs and resources.
Every year, members are also celebrated through the Generation Next Awards .
Since February 2021, Generation Next has been integrated into our Innovation Hothouse: a co-working space for entrepreneurial students and graduates, based in the University’s Enterprise Centre.
The Chamber has a physical presence here and uses it to host some of its networking events.
As part of our sponsorship of Generation Next, we gain 100 memberships every academic year, which we give out free to enterprising and ambitious students and recent graduates.
This enables them to upskill, find mentors and business partners, and build a professional support network to help them succeed.
They can also celebrate their achievements and raise their profile by being nominated for a Generation Next award.
The University is the headline sponsor for the ‘Future Leaders’ category at these awards.
We are only partway through our second academic year of offering Generation Next membership to our students and graduates, however, 130 people have already benefitted from this scheme, with more members currently being recruited.
Here are the stories of two people who have been members of Generation Next, and its impact on them.
Aged 32, Fred Gough joined Generation Next in late 2021, as a recent Writing and Publishing graduate.
Fred was diagnosed with Autism and Dyspraxia while at University, after suffering from low mood and social anxiety.
He found interviews particularly hard.
After being overlooked for several jobs, he secured an internship in the University’s Careers and Employment Service and was encouraged to join Generation Next.
Fred joined the network, keen to develop his general confidence, expand his network, and develop stronger commercial and business skills.
During his membership, he took part in a panel discussion about mentoring, sharing his own experience about how mentoring had helped him.
The main thing I have gained is the confidence to be assertive with my thoughts and approaches…being able to speak about things in a public space...has grown over time, and I now know my opinion is valid and can be acknowledged.
Fred has become a strong advocate for mental health issues, and neurodiversity, and is proud to positively represent and ally LGBTQ+ individuals.
For instance, he used his knowledge and lived experience in these areas to advise on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) issues for the Careers and Employment Service, while he was an intern there.
In July 2022, Fred was awarded a Generation Next award for Diversity and Inclusion for his efforts in this area.
He has also recently been appointed as Generation Next's Ambassador for Wellbeing for 2023.
He has now moved into a new role in the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Office and is part of an EDI working group looking to develop support and recognition mechanisms for staff across the university’s innovation and research team.
The group also aims to increase diversity across the whole University’s workforce and activities.
Fred says:
“It feels very exciting to be part of something which could implement positive impact and change within an organisation.”
Harvinder is just completing an MSc in Tourism Management, after eleven years of experience working for British Airways in India.
He joined Generation Next in Autumn 2022, after finding out about the network through the University's Enterprise Manager.
Harvinder already had experience in leadership – as a member of the Students' Union board, as Head of Derby Enactus ( an international organisation which encourages students to find innovative solutions to social issues within their communities), and th rough his previous roles at British Airways.
It was this experience that led to him being chosen as a Generation Next board champion .
Like any board, these champions help shape the future of the network and make key decisions.
I've met some very inspiring people; people who have - through dedication, perseverance and patience - overcome lots of hurdles in their lives and built up a successful brand and company.
This gives me the confidence and motivation to move forward myself.
Harvinder has found the seminars and board meetings he has attended so far, really valuable:
"I'm networking directly with the owners of really big businesses, and finding out about their experiences and how they made their brands successful.
This is very valuable.
I'm still a student so I never thought I would have this opportunity!"
So, what's next for Harvinder?
He's currently waiting for the results of his masters and says he hopes to find a management role in something that really interests him - possibly in tourism, hospitality, marketing or sales.
He will continue to serve as a Generation Next board champion and encourages other students to get involved in the network:
"If people have aspirations, want to grow their skills and learn what entrepreneurs do - they can see this live through Generation Next.
You become aware of how things works in business.
Usually you have to learn this after graduation, but with Generation Next, you can start this process while you are studying and it only needs you to commit a few hours a month."

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/clearing/how-to-apply-clearing:
Clearing is a great way to secure a course that fits you perfectly.
Whether you’ve changed your mind about what or where to study, applied later in the year, or your grades weren’t as expected, Clearing is a positive and flexible way to take your next step into the future you want.
We’ve broken it down step by step, so you’ll know exactly what to expect when Results Day opens on 14 August 2025.
Have your results ready as well as your GCSEs or equivalent Level 2 qualifications.
Don’t worry if you’re unsure about meeting the Clearing entry requirements.
We’ll talk it through with you and help find a path that works.
Also check our our guide to nailing your Clearing phone call , from our Head of Admissions.
Speak to one of our friendly Clearing advisors on 01332 592025 .
They’ll talk you through your course options, entry requirements and what we can offer you.
Calling is the fastest way to secure a place, but you can also message us on WhatsApp or fill out our Clearing enquiry form .
If we make you an offer, we’ll email you the details so make sure to give us an email address you check regularly.
When you receive your offer via email, log into the UCAS hub and add your Clearing choice to accept your offer.
We will then confirm your place and send you everything you need so you can look forward to the start of term.
Have your results ready, including GCSEs or equivalent Level 2 qualifications.
Don’t worry about meeting the Clearing entry requirements.
Calling is the fastest way to secure a place, but you can also message us on WhatsApp or complete our Clearing enquiry form .
When you receive your offer via email, you have two options to accept.
Follow our guide to understand what to change in UCAS Hub, and how to make sure your student funding is set up correctly.
We’ve outlined everything you need to know so that you can feel confident and organised ahead of starting with us.
View What's next after applying through Clearing?

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/clearing/faqs:
These answers are for students who have made Derby their firm or insurance choice.
Your next steps depend on whether Derby is your firm or insurance choice.
Derby is my firm choice:
Log in to your UCAS Hub account for information about your offer and to see any further instructions.
Derby is my insurance choice, but I want to come here instead of going to my firm choice:
If you would like to study at Derby, you can contact us on 01332 592025 to discuss your options.
If you receive an offer and would like to accept it, you can log into UCAS Hub to release yourself from your Firm choice by using the 'Decline you place' button.
You can then select 'Add Clearing choice' and fill in the course details sent to you in your provisional offer email.
Don’t panic - you may still have been accepted onto your chosen course or be offered an alternative.
First, check UCAS Hub.
Have you been offered a place on your chosen course?
Yes, I have a place on my chosen course:
That's great news.
We will send you joining instructions via email.
No, I haven't met the conditions of my offer:
Here are the steps to follow if you haven’t met the conditions of your offer:
Can I change course?
Our Admissions team will consider your request and process it as soon as possible.
Can I defer?
If you already have an offer of a place, you can make a request to defer your place.
You will need to tell us why you want to defer; we will then consider your request and inform you of our decision.
Can I withdraw?
Our Admissions team will process your request as soon as possible.
To contact our Admissions team for any of the above, call 01332 591167 or email askadmissions@derby.ac.uk .
Get in touch with us to discuss your options with a member of our Clearing team - we may be able to make you a verbal offer on the spot.
Yes, we will send you a confirmation email on the day we make you an offer.
Remember to check your spam folders too.
You will need to call your relevant Student Finance organisation.
Make sure that you have all paperwork and identification to hand as it will help speed up the process.
England: 0300 100 0607 / www.gov.uk/browse/education/student-finance Scotland: 0300 555 0505 / www.saas.gov.uk Wales: 0300 200 4050 / www.studentfinancewales.co.uk Northern Ireland: 0300 100 0077 / www.studentfinanceni.co.uk
We will let the relevant Student Finance organisation know that you have confirmed your enrolment.
But you must let them know if you have changed courses, your fees have changed, or if you have changed institutions.
Log in to your Student Finance account to make these changes.
If you are a UK or EU student and have a student loan, then you don’t need to pay a deposit.
However, if you are self-financing you will need to pay a deposit at enrolment.
If you are an international student, you will need to pay £8,000 of your annual tuition fee as a deposit before you can enrol.
For more information go to our fees and finance pages .
You can apply for accommodation once you have received formal confirmation of your offer from Admissions.
Your confirmation email from us will include your Derby ID number, which starts with 100.
You will need this to register for accommodation.
Learn more about accommodation availability for Clearing applicants
We guarantee a room in our award-winning halls to all first-year students.
Contact our accommodation team to find out more and secure your room.
If your course is based in Derby you can apply online.
You'll need to set up a Student Living account first, so make sure you have your student number to hand.
You'll also need to pay £50 up front to secure your room; this will be deducted off your first term's rent.
If you have any questions about applying to halls, you can email studentliving-housingteam@derby.ac.uk .
If your course is based in Chesterfield, please email crhft.accommodation@nhs.net .
You will receive instructions via email about how to make a formal application to us.
Once we have received this, we will make you an official offer and confirm your place.
When will I find out about enrolment?
After you have accepted your place to study at Derby, we will send information about enrolment and starting your degree to the email address you used to apply.
There will also be a link that will give you the date, time and location of your course introduction.
You can find more information about preparing to start university on our Welcome pages .
You don't have to wait for the university you're currently holding an offer with to release you; you're now able to do this yourself through UCAS Hub.
The process for releasing yourself into Clearing is straightforward, but please ensure you definitely want to decline your current offer before you do this.
If you accidentally release yourself, contact the university as soon as possible to discuss your options.
Log in to UCAS Hub and check that you have added the course and institution details to your Clearing application.
Some updates occur overnight, so please allow 24 hours for your application to be processed.
Want to know the best thing about Derby?
There really is something for everyone – whether you’re an adventure seeker, a nature-lover, or a theatre-buff, you’ll find extraordinary experiences on your doorstep.
Visit our Life at Derby page to find out more about life as a University of Derby student.
You can also check out our social media.
Visit the Clearing Hub for more useful information and resources.
Find out how to apply for guaranteed accommodation as a Clearing applicant.
Read through the simple steps of applying to Derby through Clearing.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/open-days/campus-tours:
Join our students on a tailored tour of our campus to find out what makes Derby a great place to study.
During your two-hour tour you'll be accompanied by one of our students who will show you around our facilities and accommodation and answer your questions.
You'll start at our Kedleston Road site, where you can park for free.
Your student guide will show you the Sports Centre, library, Union of Students and social spaces.
Then they will accompany you to our accommodation and any other teaching sites appropriate to your course.
All tours available to book through the form on this page are based across sites at our Derby Campus .
Looking to study Nursing?
You can also attend a Chesterfield Open Day .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/clearing/accommodation:
Living in our university halls is a fantastic way to immerse yourself in university life, gain independence and meet like-minded students who will become lifelong friends.
And to help get you started, we can offer an exclusive discount of £500 off our premium standard rooms if you come to us through Clearing.
Once you've received written confirmation of your offer, follow these steps to secure your room in halls.
All Clearing students are guaranteed a place in our award-winning halls, with bills and WiFi included, when you accept your offer to study at the University of Derby.
Explore our award-winning halls .
Agard Court is the University's newest hall of residence being located close to the University of Derby's Law School at One Friar Gate Square, on Agard Street.
It has 244 en-suite premium plus rooms, ...
Darley Bank hall of residence is ideally situated close to the city centre with shops, bars and restaurants and is located close to our One Friar Gate Square, Britannia Mill and Markaeton Street.
Flamsteed Court provides student accommodation for postgraduate and mature students at the University of Derby.
Located close to the main campus at Kedleston Road is ideally situated for late night st...
Nunnery Court halls of residence is situated in the heart of the University Quarter.
The hall is a short distance from Britannia Mill, Markeaton Street and One Friar Gate Square and is a located close...
Peak Court hall of residence provides en-suite accommodation in bright, modern flats.
Containing 247 rooms, a common room and a laundry.
Located just a short walk from the city centre.
Princess Alice Court hall of residence, is located in the heart of the University Quarter, providing standard accommodation for undergraduate students at the University of Derby.
St Christopher's Court hall of residence provides good quality, good value accommodation for students at the University of Derby.
Located on Ashbourne Road, it is close to just a short distance from B...
If you can't find the answer to your question, visit our accommodation FAQs page or email studentliving-housingteam@derby.ac.uk .
Yes - it's not too late!
We can guarantee you a place in halls for your first year studying at the University of Derby.
You can apply for a place in halls two hours after you have accepted your offer to study at the University of Derby, as soon as your admissions data has come through to our accommodation system.
We recommend that you apply as soon as possible, to give you the best chance of getting a place in the halls of your choice.
To apply online you need to set up a Student Living account .
You will need your 9-digit student number starting with 100 – you should find this on correspondence from our Admissions team.
After you have entered your number, click ‘Generate Password’ and a password will be emailed to you.
Pay your £50 deposit to secure your booking.
This will be deducted from your first term’s rent.
For the 2025/26 academic year, prices start from £117 per week.
Halls fees are all-inclusive (including electricity, gas, water and superfast WiFi) and fixed for the year, so you can budget more effectively knowing what your accommodation costs are.
For more information about fees, visit our 2025/26 halls prices page.
International students should apply using the same portal and process as home students.
We recommend that you research which halls best fit your preferences before you apply.
You can then add your first, second and third choice when you apply.
Places in halls are subject to availability, and some rooms will no longer be available at this late stage.
If an accommodation type is not available it will be removed as an option, so you will know the availability at the point of application.
Places in halls and room types are subject to availability, and if an accommodation is full it will be removed as an option, so you will know the availability at the point of application.
No!
You will have access to the same award-winning student living experience as any student who has applied earlier in the cycle, including access to Residence Life events and activities, excellent customer service and support and guidance from our professional team.
You can contact the accommodation team by phone on: +44 (0)1332 594111 or by email at studentliving-housingteam@derby.ac.uk .
Visit the Clearing Hub to learn more about Clearing and how you can apply.
Got a question about finance?
Learn more about university expenses and financial support available to help you fund your studies.
If you are a parent or guardian of someone applying to university through Clearing, we have advice and information to help you support them.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-stories/jack-hanson:
When his A-level results meant changes to his plans, Jack Hanson found his way to the BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance course at Derby through Clearing.
Jack had a hectic morning on A-level results day when he saw his grades online and found they weren’t what he needed to meet his existing offer.
“I was unbelievably stressed," he says.
"It was the scariest time of my life.”
He spoke to a friend in a similar situation about their plans, which helped him to understand his options.
They were to either wait and apply again, retaking the year’s qualifications, or try to go through Clearing by making a new application on a faster timescale.
While his friend opted to take a year out, Jack didn’t want to wait.
He says: “I thought time is precious so I went onto UCAS to see which universities would accept me based on my points.”
Before results day, Jack hadn’t really been aware of Clearing as a solution.
His highest A-level grade was in Maths, which told him to go for something numerical instead of what he originally applied for in Computer Science.
That choice led him towards Accounting and Finance.
Originally from Boston, Lincolnshire, Jack found a few options within a reasonable travelling distance, including Derby.
The phone call he had with the course leader convinced him that Derby was the right university to choose.
He says: “I just felt it was right because of how much they cared, compared to how robotic the other ones were.
They gave me additional information, offered to answer questions, and had a proper conversation.
It was more personal and less like they just wanted another student to fill the numbers.”
The offer was then sent through on UCAS - and Jack accepted.
Reflecting on getting his September back on track, Jack says: “It just gave me a nice sense of relief and security – it was like taking a burden off my shoulders.”
Another part of the process that was easily resolved was securing his place in halls of residence.
Jack calls this “probably one of the easiest things”, as it was mostly sorted for him, and he liked where he ended up in the city centre.
Was it the right choice a year on?
“I’m very happy,” Jack says.
“I got blessed with some lovely welcoming tutors who gave me all the support and help I could need, starting off with an introductory lecture that helped explain the entire course.
As of today, I’ve passed all my modules so far, so they’ve definitely done something right.”
The course makes use of a teaching facility Jack expects will be of high interest to potential employers: “There is a cool room, the  Financial Markets Lab, which is a stock exchange controller we use from first year, where you can compile information on companies from around the world and compare them.”
Jack is looking to complete financial data company Bloomberg's training course on using the Bloomberg Market Concepts application in the lab, which can help when looking at careers in global finance.
He is about to go into his second year of his degree and he is keeping his options for the future open.
He’s fully aware that the course gives him the foundation to become a Chartered Accountant, when combined with an external Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) qualification afterwards.
The wide array of course modules also gives him the chance to specialise later on.
He says: “We have things like Law for Accounting, and Operations Management.
Then we have Management Accounting - different subsections - and, whatever we feel strongest in, we can explore in more detail in year three.”
Jack has also made use of career fairs held at the University which introduce him to recruiting companies in the region.
He says: “I’ve been to all of them.
They’re very helpful and useful.
They inform you about things, tell you what requirements you need, and what you need to do.”
The fairs have given him ideas to focus on as he starts to think about his career.
Jack has stepped out of his comfort zone by playing a sport through the Union of Students that he’d never have thought of taking part in - American football.
He went to the trial day despite not having seen a game in his life.
He found it was a welcoming team who thought he would be a good addition.
He says: “Being wanted and having that feeling there was what drew me to that.”
He even got the team award for ‘Offensive Rookie of the Year’ for being the best new offence player.
His parents have been able to watch several of his games during the season.
Coming to uni by his own admission has “been a massive step up" as he has become used to operating independently for the first time.
"It’s halfway to being an adult," he says.
"Worst comes to worst, you ring your parents and ask, ‘does this go in the wash with this?’, or ‘how do I cook that?’ It’s a fun challenge.”
Having quickly adapted to university and student life despite a turbulent end to his A-levels, Jack’s advice to others in the same situation is simple.
I’d say go for it – that’s the main thing.
It’s been a very smooth journey with no complications, so I’m pretty happy.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/clearing/omoye-computer-science-clearing:
While completing her A-Levels, Omoye had accepted a place at her first-choice university through UCAS to study Biomedical Science.
But when results day arrived, she experienced a change of heart – both the course and location of the university no longer felt right for her.
Faced with an important decision and with limited time, Omoye turned to Clearing to explore her options.
Having moved from Lagos, Nigeria, in 2019 to study, Omoye was looking to explore a new area in the UK.
“I wanted a fresh start, and I was keen to meet new people,” she said.
With a new adventure in mind, and having decided that Computer Science was the course for her, she began researching.
“I was looking through league tables and saw that Derby was up there for Computer Science,” she explained.
“I also spotted that it was in the middle of the country, which meant I could easily travel to explore other cities in the UK which was appealing to me.”
Omoye also found that Derby was a diverse and inclusive city, which she was excited to be a part of.
Confident that Derby was the place for her, Omoye reached out to the University’s Clearing team.
It was this call that confirmed her choice, “I thought, if this is the level of support I’m getting before joining the university, imagine what it would be like when I’m a student there?
This was really appealing to me,” she said.
Although Omoye initially felt anxious about changing her university plans so close to results day, her fears quickly faded after speaking with the team.
“My experience through Clearing was amazing, honestly.
The Clearing team were so friendly and supportive, they reassured me that I would get a place and guided me through the process.”
Now, having graduated in July 2025 with a BSc (Hons) in Computer Science, Omoye is grateful she trusted her instincts and went through Clearing to find Derby – a decision that led to valuable industry experience and a clear career path.
“I’ve had so many opportunities to work with industry while at Derby, and I was always encouraged to try and do more.
It’s been great as I’ve been able to gain real-world experience while studying.”
During her three-year course, Omoye completed two internships through the University’s industry partnerships – first as a data research assistant at the University’s Enterprise Centre, and then as a data intern at Derby and Burton Hospitals Charity.
Omoye then secured a summer internship at a private equity firm in London, lined up to begin after graduation.
As a practical learner, Omoye found Derby’s applied teaching approach particularly helpful with her studies.
“I was able to apply what I was learning in the classroom during my internships, which was perfect for me.
It meant I was getting a chance to get out there and put it into practice.”
Looking ahead, Omoye is exploring her options further to see where it takes her, aiming to secure a job as a data analyst.
“When I started my course, I was open to different possibilities, but the course has certainly helped me decide which route I want to go down and has helped me to narrow down my choices.”
Choosing the right course and university can feel overwhelming.
But once you find the right fit, those doubts start to disappear.
Reflecting on her journey, Omoye says her experience gave her confidence and helped her realise just how capable she is.
“My time on my course has instilled confidence in myself.
I was excelling, and it's made me excited for what I can achieve in the future,” she said.
Omoye’s biggest takeaway is that university is what you make it.
“I was determined to make it a great one, so I really focused on putting myself out there and going for everything I could.”
My advice for clearing is don’t panic.
The Clearing team is so supportive – there is no need to be scared!
The university is amazing, the support is there, the facilities are great, and you’re never going to be alone.
Have an open mind and don’t be afraid to try new things.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/clearing/amelia-motorsport-clearing:
Coming from a family of motorsport enthusiasts, Amelia Shackleton always had a keen interest in motorsport engineering.
She didn’t believe that she would get the grades needed at A-Level to follow her dreams so when she did better than expected, she decided to try Clearing to see what options were available to her.
Amelia Shackleton has fond memories of being around a race track.
As a child, she would often watch British Superbikes on the TV and, occasionally, she’d be taken to a racetrack where hr Step Dad would be working away in the garage.
She said: “I was too young to be in the garage with my step-dad, but I have such good memories of watching the British Superbikes.
“I loved the fast-paced environment, the hustle and bustle and the noise.
My Uncle is a mechanic, and my Grandad is a mechanical engineer, so I had a desire to follow in their footsteps.”
However, Amelia put her ambitions to work in engineering on the backburner after suffering with a crisis in confidence during her A-Levels.
“I had always harboured an ambition to be an engineer, but I came from a school that was quite academic,” she said.
“Very few practical options were presented to me post-16, and so I applied to study English Literature at one university, and English and Classical Literature at another.
“Throughout my A-Levels, I struggled with confidence.
However, my results were far better than I expected them to be and, with some encouragement from my mum, I thought ‘I can do this; I can be an engineer’.
“The results really gave me a boost.
My Mum was very supportive and was the one who suggested I try UCAS Clearing.
“I went onto the website on A-Level Results Day and searched for motorsport engineering courses at university.
The University of Derby course was one of the top searches, and so I called the Clearing Hotline and spoke with one of the academics who talked me through the Motorsport Engineering degree.
“I was instantly put at ease and reassured that this was the right choice for me.”
Amelia was offered a place at Derby studying for a BEng (Hons) in Motorsport Engineering with a Foundation Year.
The Foundation Year offers students the chance to strengthen skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from expert staff – before advancing to stage one of an honours degree.
It is particularly beneficial for those who are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new.
The course offers vital technical and digital skills alongside practical experience, with the option to switch the degree in Year 2 to either BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering , BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering or continue studying on BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering .
Amelia said: “I am so happy with my choice of study.
I’m now the third family member in succession to go into engineering, and the first female.
That’s such a big deal.
“I’m in my second year of studying motorsport engineering and highlights have included being a part of the University team that visited Brands Hatch ahead of the Formula Student championship and Radical SR1 Cup Championship.
“I got to apply what I’d learned in the classroom in a real-life situation.
The driver of the Radical SR1 was a former GP racing driver and he passed on the experience of what a driver would want from his car on race day.
It was really useful.”
The University’s motorsport workshop, which is based at Markeaton Street, is equipped with several different race vehicles, engines and gearboxes where students can gain hands-on experience.
The facility is set up to deliver learning across advanced power train engineering, motorsport chassis design and computational fluid dynamics.
There is a state-of-the-art computer lab, a mechanical workshop and a practical space containing a wind tunnel and test engine where the aerodynamics of objects is studied.
Amelia, though, has found a new love of Mathematics whilst studying her degree.
She said: “Before I joined Derby, maths was just something to get out of the way.
I now understand what maths can do for you, and how you can apply it to real-life situations and I really enjoy learning about it.”
While Amelia is unsure as to what her future career will be, she knows she wants to stay in motorsport.
“When I first came to Derby, I just wanted to pass the first year,” she said, “now I’m putting myself out of my comfort zone and know that the sky is the limit with regards the future.
“I am so pleased that I chose Derby.
My family are very proud, and I would recommend the course to anyone interested in engineering.”

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/engineering-courses/how-hannah-followed-her-heart:
Choosing whether to follow your head or your heart can be tough decision when it comes to deciding on a course and a university.
Hannah initially followed her head, but inevitably her heart won over and she pursued her passion in Motorsport Engineering at Derby.
Hannah recalls moments in her childhood that led her to the world of motorsport.
“I used to go and watch rallies at home,” she says.
“I used to go pretty much every year from around the age of 12 and 13.
That sparked my interest – rallies more than motorsport – and cars.
Then when I turned 17 I got into cars and I’ve really enjoyed knowing more about them.
I’ve gone through so many cars since I turned 17!”
She went through a tough time at the start of her University experience: “When I came to the Open Day here, I decided here was where I wanted to go.
It was my first choice.
The second I walked in I loved it and it felt right.
But when Covid hit I decided I wanted to stay close to home”.
However after starting a degree in biomedical science at a different university, she left and took a year out then applied to Derby through Clearing.
“I always loved cars and motorsport so decided to come and do this and follow what I enjoyed,” she says.
Hannah recounts initial nerves of moving from her home town in North Wales to Derby.
“It was a scary move with me not coming from a big city.
But Derby feels like a small city and very friendly.
It feels like home.”
I asked what appeals most to her?
“It’s quite a nice city, you’ve got a lot of things here to do, like you’re so close to Alton Towers, cinema and bowling.
It’s also so close to M6 – if I want to go home it’s easy, if I want a day out it’s easy.
I’ve never been used to that living at home because it’s so far away from everything!
I’ve also met such nice people, it just feels friendly.
I found the transition a lot easier than I thought I would.”
A turning point for Hannah so far has been getting involved with extra curricular activities.
Team Derby Motorsport, a voluntary group that BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering students can join, took part in the Radical SR1 Cup in 2022.
Hannah joined the team, initially as a Number 2 Technician before being asked to step up as a Number 1.
“I started off as Number 2 Technician, so that was taking fuel out of the car, refuelling, setting up for patch, setting up for string bars for stringing the car and helping anything the Number 1 needs – taking wheels off and on, helping with brake leads, and then that season upped my skills and I was given the opportunity to be a Number 1 for the last round in Donington.
That was a big thing for me, I was very nervous because I was fully responsible for the car!
We had a few little issues I had to solve mechanically.
I did a brake disc and pad change.
I was giving out jobs to Number 2s and teaching them what I did so they could learn what I did throughout the whole season.
I learnt so much mechanically and theory throughout the whole season and that’s definitely helped me with my work this year.” The Team went on to win eight podium trophies over 14 races, two of which were for outright wins, and they were presented with the Radical Technical Award at Radical’s Night of Champions award ceremony.
“Getting podium finishes was overwhelming.
It was a bit surreal to think you’ve worked on a car that’s finished on the podium,” Hannah says.
On being presented the Radical Technical Award she says, “It was really nice to know that other people had noticed our hard work.”
Getting involved in the competition benefitted her in other ways too.
“A big worry for me was making friends who like the same things as me,” says Hannah.
“But I’ve made a group of friends who are into what I’m into and the Radical was a massive help with that.”
“I really like the course.
I really enjoyed first year with the practical, it was a nice introduction.
I enjoy the theory of it too, why you do certain things, what affects each other.
It helps that our teachers and lecturers are really passionate about what we teach, it really comes across and you definitely learn more that way.” She’s been doing so well on the course that Technical Instructor Andy Menzies invited her to some race weekends with Excelr8, a professional racing team, to gain some industry experience.
“I did a few rounds with Excelr8 with Mini Coopers as a Tyre Engineer.
It was a different experience being with a professional team and I gained a lot of knowledge that has helped with my modules this year.” Besides the knowledge she has gained, Hannah has noticed a huge change in herself.
“My confidence has grown massively, and that’s a lot to do with being given opportunities and being pushed out of my comfort zone.”
“When I came here I didn’t really have any goal for the future because it was a last minute course change.
But the course has given me a lot of insight into what I potentially want to do in the future” says Hannah.
“At the moment I’m interested in becoming a race engineer, and the radical has helped massively with that as I get to see what the other students were doing and what a massive part of the team that is.”
And what advice does Hannah have for anyone considering studying Motorsport at Derby?
“Definitely come!” she says.
“There’s a lot of opportunities and the structure of the course is really good, there’s different modules for different aspects.
And you also learn a lot of Matlab and Computer Aided Design as well which I’d never even thought about before.
Also the lecturers and technical staff are so passionate about what they do, it really does help to learn.
They’re always there if you need help.”

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/business-management-courses/lilly-finds-the-perfect-match-at-derby:
Lilly applied to study at university as her next step in higher education.
But it didn't initially work out as she'd planned.
“I did really well in my A-levels and got into the University of York to do Law.
But I didn’t enjoy it.
It was a mix of living away from home and not being that keen on the course,” Lilly says.
“I went back for my second year but wasn’t there for more than a week before I realised I couldn’t stay there for another three years.
I’d had a really long summer as well because of Covid, but I got there and just thought this isn’t for me.”
So, Lilly returned home and decided to research all the universities that she could commute to from home, and decided that Derby offered the perfect balance.
“I called the Clearing hotline and explained my situation.
The person I spoke to was so friendly and helpful.
They went through what I got for my A-levels and said straight away that they could offer me a place.
They were great on the phone.
I didn’t have to pull teeth – it was faultless.”
Lilly recognises that Clearing can be an anxious time.
“I remember my emotions were heightened at that time.
The word Clearing is thrown around a lot and as soon as you hear the word you think “oh my gosh”.
But it helped a lot that it was a relatively simple process.”
Making the decision to switch from studying Law to Business Management was an easy decision for her.
“After looking at a number of different courses I just thought “let’s do Business Management”.
My mum had studied it, I thought I’d probably enjoy it and it felt like a broad subject area which will help me keep my career options open.
“I remember looking and being thrilled that the course was majority coursework based.
I looked at other universities in the area and none of them quite fitted what I wanted to do.
Derby’s degree had a good mix of everything – marketing, finance, accounting and other areas.”
Another thing that appealed to Lilly was the option to choose a pathway.
“It meant I could specialise in one area,” she says.
“I’d spoken to law firms and their graduate teams, and I remember thinking that I wasn’t interested in law, but I was interested in the people I was talking to and their roles in recruitment.
I loved the idea of speaking to prospective employees.”
When she stepped foot on campus for the first time, Lilly was blown away.
“I didn’t know anything about Derby before.
I ended up choosing here because it was practical and the course was the best fit for me, but I didn’t look at what was on offer before applying.
So I was impressed when I saw the facilities here.” Lilly says: “I’d only been down the road and hadn’t acknowledged having the University on my doorstep!
I loved the library too and the amount of eBooks available.
It was so much simpler than what I’d been used to.”
Lilly settled into life at the University of Derby straight away.
“Business Management is a big cohort but the course has always felt personable.
I still found you could speak to a lecturer and they took the time to get to know me.
Going to uni is massive – it’s such a step up from A-levels.
There’s less hand-holding.
Although Derby gave me a lot of resources and helped me.”
She credits her positive experience with the University to the support she received from her Personal Academic Tutor (PAT).
“My lecturer, Sheena Bevvit , was absolutely amazing.
She spoke to me about things that I could put in place to help me and offered for me to come and talk to her whenever I wanted.
This kind of support makes a lot of difference to people starting at uni.
And it was a major reason for me staying here and carrying on.”
After completing the first two years of her degree, Lilly went on a placement at Derbyshire Fire and Rescue Service.
“I joined the Service Development Team as an Organisational Development Administrator.
It was amazing.
It really built my confidence and overlapped perfectly with my interest in HR," she says.
"I always said I wouldn't do a placement year, however, I quickly realised how much it could help with my future career.
I gained practical experience, was able to apply the theory I had learned in my modules and networked with industry professionals."
And any concerns about returning back to university for her final year were soon alleviated.
“Going back to uni for my fourth year after my placement was seamless.
You think you’ll forget everything but I got straight into the swing of it."
Lilly feels there’s some negativity around staying at home whilst studying a degree.
“Commuting and staying at home whilst you study at university has a massive stigma.
But I’ve had a great experience and have made friends who all commute in.
I feel like school and college pushes you towards certain universities but these were a little out of my comfort zone.
I ended up following my heart and chose a university and course that was the right fit for me.”
Her advice for people considering the same mode of study?
“There are other people that will be in your position.
I made friends quickly and you get to know people who live in halls.
Don’t be scared of the fact that you might not have gone down the traditional route and moved away.”
Lilly’s next steps are to work in HR (human resources) management.
“I’m going into a graduate role in September in HR at Barratt Developments.
This course and pathway has massively helped me to get there.
I enjoyed the HR modules the most on my degree and was able to use terms in my interview that I’d learned through my modules.
I’m looking forward to getting some life experience in that area and seeing where it takes me.”
Despite achieving a first in her degree and winning five awards including CIPD Student of the Year and the Chartered Management Institute prize for best performing Business Management student, Lilly is humble when she considers her biggest success.
“I’m most proud of just getting my degree.
I had such a bumpy road trying out somewhere else first.
I’m just happy I got through it.”

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/marketing-courses/clearing-to-cofounder-emily:
Emily Smith is graduating with a first-class honours degree in BA (Hons) Marketing, PR and Advertising , having also co-founded her own business whilst studying.
But Emily’s path to University of Derby wasn’t the most traditional – she was already in her first year at another university when she was able to use Clearing to join University of Derby and pursue her passion.
Emily initially started her studies at a different university on a Fashion Marketing and Branding degree, but soon realised the course wasn’t right for her.
“While I’ve always loved fashion, I quickly realised that the course wasn’t the right fit for me.
I wanted something broader, with more opportunities across different industries.
I’ve had a passion for marketing, particularly advertising, from a very young age.
I remember being around ten years old and becoming fascinated with TV adverts, often imagining how I would recreate or improve them.
That early curiosity never left me, so pursuing a degree in Marketing felt like the natural choice.”
Deciding to follow her heart, Emily called our Clearing hotline and secured a place for September on our Marketing, PR and Advertising degree.
From the first time she contacted the University of Derby until the moment she received an offer to study here, Emily felt supported at every stage.
“I applied to Derby very late in the process through Clearing.
The staff were incredible – friendly, understanding, and quick to respond.
I spoke to some wonderful people on the Clearing hotline who made the process smooth and stress-free, and I received confirmation of my place shortly afterwards.”
Once on the course, Emily hit the ground running.
Working on live briefs, which are incorporated in the degree to enable students to work on real marketing challenges during their studies, she gained important skills for her CV, and made valuable industry connections.
“A number of our modules incorporated live briefs which allowed us to work on real-world challenges and apply our learning in a practical setting.
One standout experience was during our Social Media module, where we had the opportunity to work with a charitable organisation and take over their Twitter account as part of a ‘Twitter Takeover’.
These experiences were incredibly valuable as they gave me a taste of what it’s like to work in the industry and helped me to develop the practical skills needed for a career in marketing.
It made my learning feel more tangible and exciting.”
While studying at the University of Derby, Emily co-founded her social media marketing agency Narrative Social, and it has gone from strength to strength since.
“We work with a range of businesses across the UK – and more recently, with clients in the USA.
Our services include social media management, content creation days, email marketing, and now coaching sessions to help business owners better understand and navigate social media.”
Emily credits the skills she learned on her degree for helping her navigate the world of business.
“My degree has played a key role in shaping the business.
It gave me a strong foundation in marketing theory and, more importantly, provided me with real-world experience of working with businesses through various course modules.
That hands-on exposure has been invaluable in helping me understand client needs and deliver impactful results.”
Graduating with a first-class honours in BA (Hons) Marketing, PR and Advertising, Emily is looking forward to the future, and aims to grow Narrative Social, expand their services, take on more clients and build a larger team.
Looking back at her last three years, Emily says:
“Studying at the University of Derby has helped me grow in so many ways, both personally and professionally.
I’ve gained confidence and a much stronger belief in my own abilities.
In the past, I often doubted myself, but the support and encouragement I received from staff and peers helped me recognise my potential.
The experience didn’t just help me become a graduate – it gave me the confidence and skills to become a business owner, which is something I’m incredibly proud of.”
As a message to those thinking about applying to university through Clearing this year, Emily reflects:
There’s absolutely no shame in applying through Clearing – in fact, it could be the start of something amazing.
Whether you didn’t get your initial choices or simply made a last-minute decision to attend university, you’ll be welcomed with open arms.
The support at Derby is second to none, and your journey will be just as rewarding and valid as anyone else’s.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/blog/clearing-nail-clearing-phonecall:
Are you thinking of using Clearing to secure a university place?
Helen Mercado, Head of Admissions at the University of Derby, shares her top tips for making that all important phone call on results day.
By Helen Mercado - 11 July 2025
Whether you are still considering your next steps, changed your mind about where or what to study or waiting to see how exams go, Clearing offers you a range of options to consider.
The Clearing process matches applicants to university places.
A Clearing call is when you contact a university to see if they have any spaces available to study and to explore your options.
It is made to a university hotline where you speak to someone from the university with the opportunity to potentially receive a place to study there.
People go through Clearing for many reasons.
For example, they’ve made a last-minute decision to go to university, have changed their mind on which university or course to study or didn’t make it into the university they originally applied for.
They will want to know the grades you have achieved from your A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications, plus GCSE or equivalent in English, Maths and Science.
Don’t worry if you still don’t meet the Clearing entry requirements – there might be an alternative route for you, such as starting at foundation level, which will have lower grade requirements, or a different course, which is more suitable to your needs.
Just as importantly, the university will also want to know what interests you about the subject, and they will be looking for you to display your passion.
If you have appropriate work experience or have read any books or journals about a specific area of the subject you’re applying for, tell them about it.
Give them a sense of who you are and why you want to study the course.
Take a deep breath and try not to worry – Clearing can be stressful, but universities will do their best to put you at ease.
They will want to talk to you, not to your relatives – not because they want to quiz you, but because they want to understand you, and make sure you understand what they are saying.
And finally, make sure you have everything to hand.
Write down your qualifications, including body, grade and year awarded, certificates and a copy of your personal statement.
Remember that Clearing is not a bad thing; people go through Clearing for a wide range of reasons and have an incredibly positive outcome and open a world of possibilities!
You have nothing to lose and everything to gain.
At Derby, as well as speaking to us on our Clearing hotline on 01332 592025 , you can also contact us via WhatsApp, social media or our website , if making a phone call is not convenient for you.
You can find out more about the Clearing process, what subjects are available to study, and frequently asked questions by visiting our Clearing webpages .
You contact us now to discuss your options on 01332 592025 .
You could receive a provisional offer to study at the University of Derby this September and we’ll also chat to you about your career goals and guide you through your next steps.
Find out more about Clearing at the University of Derby
As Head of Admissions, I am responsible for leading the delivery and development of the University's admissions function.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-admissions-tips.php:
My name is Helen Mercardo and I'm Head of Admissions at the University of Derby.
Do you still need to find a place at university for September?
Maybe because you've changed your mind about your course or choice of uni, or have only just decided that now is the time for you to enter higher education.
Clearing gives you an opportunity to find a place or make a change.
Here are our top tips: Check what places are available through Clearing.
Here at Derby, you can do this through our website.
Can't make up your mind?
We have flexible options where you can choose to study more than one subject.
Make a list of the ones you're interested in.
Number two: Look for similar courses.
If you're struggling to find the exact course that you're interested in, try to think more broadly.
Are there similar courses that you might like?
You can also view our courses by subject area.
Number three: Ask for advice.
Talk to family, teachers, and friends and ask them what they think.
You can also get in touch with us to find out what life at Derby is really like.
Number four: Prepare to make contact.
Get organised.
You'll need your UCAS ID number and details of all your qualifications to hand for when you make your Clearing enquiry.
Number five: Get in touch.
Once you're ready, our phone lines are open and our friendly team are ready to take your call.
We may even be able to make you an offer today!
You can also get in touch with us anytime through social media.
We'll help you explore your options, so you can look forward to a bright future, and new opportunities.
Back to Clearing

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/clearing/parents-guidance:
Clearing is an application process that allows your young person to secure a university place if they do not yet have one.
It is ideal for students who have changed their minds about what or where to study, are applying later in the cycle or think their results might not go as expected.
In fact, over 38,000 UK students secured their place through Clearing last year, the highest number ever, showing how common and successful this route is.
(Source: UCAS 2024 End of Cycle Report)
Every student’s situation is different, this table shows what to expect at each stage and how they can secure their place.
Results Day Onwards (14 August - 20 October)
Clearing is open now, so if your young person feels ready, they can apply today by calling our Clearing hotline ( 01332 592025 ) or completing our online form .
It’s a great way to get ahead and feel more in control.
If your young person already has their results, for example if they took a gap year or spent time working, they can apply through Clearing immediately.
They can do this by calling our Clearing hotline ( 01332 592025 ) or completing our online form , and they may be able to secure a confirmed offer today.
If your young person has a provisional offer but changes their mind, they can still look at other options and go through Results Day Clearing instead.
Nothing is final until they accept an offer in the UCAS Hub.
No matter when they apply, the steps are simple.
Here’s what to expect and how you can support them.
Top tip: Don’t worry about meeting the entry requirements.
We’ll talk it through with your young person and help find a path that works.
Top tip: It can really help to visit in person before making a final decision.
Our Open House events are a great chance to get a feel for the campus, meet the teaching team and current students, and explore our accommodation and the city.
You can also take a Virtual Tour to get started.
Try to talk things through before Results Day so you both feel prepared.
It can really help your young person feel calmer and reassured if they know you’re ready to support them but resist taking over.
Once they have their place, make sure they have sorted their student finance.
If they've already applied for this, they just need to update the university and course details.
This needs to be up to date before they start to make sure they get their loan.
If they haven't already applied for finance, encourage them to do so as soon as possible.
Find out more about undergraduate fees and finance
The other big thing to sort out now is accommodation.
We can guarantee all first year students a room in our award-winning halls.
Find out more about applying for accommodation through Clearing
Find out how student finance works
Read our FAQs for further information and support if you are considering applying through Clearing.
Confused by all the terminology?
Our A-Z guide will help.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/my-derby-journey:
Congratulations to our applicants!
We can't wait for you to start your journey with us.
Find out everything you need to know like how to apply for accommodation, what's on at Freshers, student finance, how to visit us and more.
If you have applied through UCAS, you can check the status of your application in UCAS Hub.
If you have applied to us directly, you can email acceptmyoffer@derby.ac.uk.
Check out our Get Ready for Uni online workshops with alumnus, TV personality and educational expert, Baasit Siddiqui.
We've also collected tips from our lecturers on tackling essays, revision and exams, plus some helpful advice from our students.
We put together a fantastic line-up of events to make your 'Welcome' to the University as social and exciting as possible.
Secure your Freshers wristband to get access to a wide range of events hosted by our Union of Students on campus and around the city.
Whatever your circumstances, commuting doesn’t mean missing out on the full university experience.
Learn more about commuting Learn more about commuting
We're proud winners of the Best University Housing and Best Environmental Management in The Global Student Living Awards 2024, as voted by our students.
If you've received your offer and we're your first choice, you're guaranteed a room in our award-winning student accommodation.
Secure your room Secure your room
Want to know more about the financial support on offer at Derby?
Find out everything you need to know about applying for tuition fees, maintenance loans, placement year funding and bursaries.
Find out more about fees and funding Find out more about fees and funding
Coming to university is an exciting time, so preparing how you'll manage your money while studying can make your student life easier.
We've put together some pointers on ways to make savings with tips and advice around making the most of your budget.
Explore more about how we can support you Explore more about how we can support you
We are committed to your success which is why we are ranked 2nd 5 for Employability (Uni Compare 2026).
Our Careers and Employment Service offers support from day one, and up to three years after you graduate - from part-time work to placements and studying abroad.
Do you have a parent or guardian who would like more information about applying and studying at university?
We're here to help!
Browse through our pages full of guidance and tips to help them support you.
You will receive a personalised timetable 48 hours after successfully completing your enrolment in August/September 2025 which will be confirmed via email.
At this point, you’ll be able to access your personalised timetable on UDo – your student portal.
If you’ve booked a room in our University-owned halls, you will receive an email offer containing the address of your room.
You will need to formally accept this online.
If you apply to the University of Derby through Clearing, you will receive an email offer within 24-48 hours of submitting your accommodation application.
You will also be sent a link to join the Student Accommodation group chat on The Ambassador Platform (TAP) to connect with your future flatmates.
Your Resource List (otherwise known as a Reading List) is available via our Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) or our Library website.
Our libraries offer you a range of services to support you throughout your studies.
Academic Librarians will help you familiarise yourself with the facilities and resources available, including bookable study rooms, course resource lists, guides, the library website and our laptop loan service.
You can contact us now on 01332 592025 to discuss applying through Clearing.
Or you can contact our Admissions team to discuss your current application on 01332 591167 or by emailing askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
Watch our Applicant Day 2024 livestream on YouTube!
Find out more about student life, student support, research at Derby and more.
Recently shortlisted for the 2024 Information Literacy Award, Develop With Derby is an online hub providing transferable skills support.
Discover more about student life by exploring the Union of Students, societies and sports teams.
Follow our social channels to see what's going on at the University as well across Derby and Derbyshire.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/open-days/undergraduate/guide:
Visiting your future university can give you insight into your subject and what life on campus will feel like and it’s important to remember this day is all about you.
A University of Derby Open Day is different.
It's designed to work at your pace with the freedom to explore your interests.
This guide will help you make the most of it.
Get a good start to your day and plan ahead so you know exactly where you need to go.
Derby is ideally located in the heart of the UK, with great transport links.
Your Open Day with us will begin at our Kedleston Road site (DE22 1GB) which is located just outside the city centre and has free parking for our Open Day visitors.
We have shuttle buses running throughout the day to our additional teaching sites and accommodation.
Travelling by bus?
The Allestree bus takes you from the city centre to our Kedleston Road site in 10 minutes.
Travelling by train?
Derby Midland train station is a 10 minute drive away from our Kedleston Road site.
If you're travelling by train, we're operating a free bus from the Pride Park entrance to the station.
Our team will be there to guide you - look our for the pink t-shirts/hoodies!
Travelling by coach?
You can catch the National Express coach and get yourself a 30% discount on your return tickets to Derby bus station.
Select your starting destination and departure date from the journey planner, and your discount will be automatically applied at checkout.
From Derby bus station, you can catch the Trent Barton ‘Allestree’ service which runs frequently along Kedleston Road.
Upon arrival, you’ll receive a warm welcome to the event and our University from our friendly senior leadership team and helpful student ambassadors who will be on-hand to support and guide you.
You can attend a welcome talk where you'll hear all about our University and the city from our staff and guest speakers.
Specific times can be found in our handy Open Day guide.
Finding out more about your course should be at the top of your priorities for an Open Day.
This is your chance to find out if it's the right subject for you and if it will offer you the right opportunities.
After your welcome talk, you can see what it’s really like to study at the University of Derby by joining one of our interactive subject sessions.
You can meet with our expert academics, tour our outstanding facilities and get all of your questions answered about modules, assessment methods and career paths.
Don’t forget to check which site you need for your subject session.
Maps are available to help you locate where you need to go, and our free shuttle buses will take you to our other teaching sites.
Attending an Open Day gives you the opportunity to explore your campus and get a feel for the student culture and atmosphere.
At a University of Derby Open Day, our friendly team of students are ready to take you on a walking tour of our campus and show you all of the facilities you can use - from the Basecamp social space, library, sports centre, and everything in-between.
And who better to tell you what studying here is really like?
Take a Virtual Tour before you arrive!
Our Open Days begins at Kedleston Road but you will have the opportunity to also explore our additional teaching sites:
Whilst you're learning more about your subject it's beneficial to find out what facilities a university has to help you in your studies.
Across our teaching sites, you can take a look at our state-of-the-art facilities - from our Aquatic Research Facility and Sports Centre to our NHS Hospital Ward and creative studios.
And during your subject taster session, you might even be able to test them out!
Make sure you visit our student accommodation so you can get an idea of where you might want to live during your studies!
We have a wide choice of accommodation available around our teaching sites.
On our Open Days, we have three of our award-winning halls of residence open to view where you can take a look around and imagine yourself living here.
These locations are Peak Court , Agard Court and St.
Christopher’s Court , providing you with a good showcase of the halls with a mixture of ensuite and standard premium options available to view.
Our Student Living team are also available at Kedleston Road with information about all of our accommodation, including prices.
Come and say hello!
Want to take a look around before you visit?
Use our virtual tour to explore our campus and accommodation.
Embrace the student lifestyle and expand your social network by joining a sports team or society.
It's a great way to connect with like-minded students who are either studying on your course or interested in the same hobbies.
From regular social activities to study sessions, sports and societies offer you a sense of community as you take on your next chapter in life.
At our Open Day, you can visit the Union of Students stall to find out more about our available sports teams and societies.
We have everything from American Football, Cheerleading and Tennis, to the Book Club, Midwifery Rocks Society and Musical Theatre Society!
At our Open Days, our support teams are there to help if you have questions about your application, need to know more about student finance or want to find out how we support your wellbeing.
We’re also happy to review your personal statement and provide useful tips to help you stand out from the crowd.
Our expert teams are available at Kedleston Road with information and advice - just drop by to see them when you’re ready.
After attending your Open Day, you might want to spend some time exploring Derby and picture yourself living here as a student.
From the bustling city centre to the peaceful surrounding countryside, Derby and Derbyshire has plenty to offer.
After visiting us at an Open Day and having all of your questions answered, you'll be able to make an informed decision about what subject you would like to study.
Remember to fill out your application by the next UCAS deadline.
Find out more about the application process
Explore the heart of the country with the city and countryside at your doorstep.
Experience the buzz of student life at a TEF Gold university and find where y...
Get a taste of what it’s like to come to the University of Derby and explore what’s on offer - wherever you are.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/our-halls:
We offer the widest choice of rooms in Derby, so there's bound to be something to suit your needs and budget.
From premium en suite rooms and studios to standard singles and everything in between.
The price of our accommodation varies depending on which halls and room type you choose to apply for.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/applying:
You can apply for halls if you have your 9 digit student number.
You will find this number on the offer letter email sent from our Admissions team.
It starts with 100.
Apply now
Please ring us on 01332 594111 if you are having trouble locating the number.
Applications for halls are open to all University of Derby students, whether you are a new student, apprentice, returner, international or local to Derby.
When you apply you will have to pay £50 upfront to secure your booking.
That £50 will be reduced from your first term's rent.
Halls of residence are the first choice for first-year, foundation and overseas students.
Halls are a great introduction to university life and are ideal for making new friends.
If you live locally, you can still get the full University experience by living in halls.
There's a vibrant community of our second and third year students living in halls with other students in similar study years.
Find out about all the convenience and benefits that halls can provid...
Our halls of residence have a long-standing record of excellent customer service for international students.
We aim to make halls a home from home and encourage students to join in our events programm...
There will be rooms available in halls for our January starters, across all halls depending on where vacancies have become available.
It’s important to tell us about any health conditions, disabilities or wellbeing concerns you have when you apply so that we can support you during your stay with us.
If you are looking to accommodate a group of five or more people for a conference, event or activity, we can offer short-term group bookings subject to availability.
If you are coming to do academic or research work at the University for a short time, we can accommodate you in our award-winning halls of residence.
Students from the University of Nottingham can stay in our halls of residence while studying at the Medical School in Derby.
If you're going on placement or an exchange for part of the academic year, find out what you need to do about accommodation.
This year, all Rolls-Royce interns will be accommodated at our Princess Alice Court hall of residence.
Most people living in our halls of residence are over 18 years old but, occasionally, students under the age of 18 may need a room in halls.
We have extra support and special policies in pla...
If you want to live as a couple with your partner, take a look at the studios at Darley Bank.
This hall has studios for dual occupancy at really good rates.
Once you've accepted your offer from the University of Derby, you can apply for halls.
We recommend you apply soon after you've chosen Derby as your first choice University so that you have the best chance of getting the room type that you want.
Don't worry though, we have plenty of rooms available and we guarantee a room to first-year and overseas students who apply by 31 July.
When you apply, you'll see what options and room types are still open to you.
All applications should be made online.
You'll have the chance to tell us your room preferences when you apply and though we can't guarantee that you'll be offered your first choice of room, we will however do our best to meet your requirements from the choices you've made.
Apply for halls The benefits of living in university-owned halls
When you apply, you should also tell us whether you want to live in a single or mixed-gender flat and if you have any particular requirements because of a medical condition.
When we've allocated you a room, we'll email you to let you know and we'll send you an offer of accommodation, so remember to check your emails regularly.
To accept our offer of accommodation, you'll need to complete the online offer and accept it within ten working days.
Apply to live with friends Paying for halls

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/moving-in:
We're looking forward to welcoming you to halls.
In 2025, most people will be arriving during Welcome Weekend which is 12,13 and 14 September.
Don't worry if you need to arrive earlier or later.
After A level results day on 14 August, you'll be able to book an arrival slot by logging into your Student Living account .
Before you can book a slot though, you'll need to complete the halls induction which takes about 20 minutes.
It's full of useful information you'll need to know before you move in.
Then once you've booked your arrival slot you'll be able to get ready for the big move.
The information below will help you get ready for moving-in day.
We also welcome arrivals in January and will publish details nearer the time.
.
Not sure where to start?
Here are some basics you should bring to University with you.
How to support your children at University.
Find out more about moving in to halls and what to do when you arrive.
To enable students to unload easily when moving into halls on Welcome Day, we advise moving your car away from halls once belongings have been unpacked.
There are plenty of alternative places to ...
A few tips on how to settle in with your flatmates and what things you need to keep on top of to have a great year in halls.
Find out about the sites and facilities that make up our Derby Campus.
Our Residence Life events and activities are designed to help you settle in, meet new people, and explore new experiences.
This support is especially valuable at the start of the year, when it’s normal to feel a little homesick or unsure about making connections.
Most events are free and don’t require booking, just turn up and join in.
It’s a built-in social life right on your doorstep, focused on fun and making everyone feel welcome.
You'll become part of a vibrant, friendly community with the chance to attend events and meet students from both your own hall and nearby halls.
See our upcoming Residence Life events
I love the uni halls events because they create a sense of community and help build new friendships between students.
It also helps to build new skills and live some brilliant life experiences.
This was one of the things that drew me to attending the University of Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/once-you-are-here:
Once you're here we hope you settle into Uni life and enjoy being independent.
If things don't go as smoothly as you thought they would try not to worry - it's likely that everyone is feeling the same.
If you do need some support or advice, our door is always open so please speak to the Hall Manager or a Residential Assistant.
They will respect your privacy and help you with any problems or refer you to someone who can help in the wellbeing team.
Alternatively, you can contact the wellbeing team directly by phone or email:
Phone: +44 (0)1332 591311 Email: studentwellbeing@derby.ac.uk
Ideas to help you settle into University life
Remember your hall team can help with most things but the halls tile on UDo and the information below is also a useful reference

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/private-accommodation:
Accreditation provides students with the reassurance that a landlord and his/her property has met the University's agreed minimum standard for private rented accommodation.
Landlords who complete our accreditation show a commitment to providing good quality accommodation.
DASH (Decent And Safe Homes) Landlord Accreditation is an award winning accreditation scheme that encourages and rewards good property standards and management practice in the private rented sector.
As DASH's vision says:
We want everyone to have the opportunity to live in a safe, warm, secure, stable, good quality affordable home environment and to have a choice about where they live.
Choosing one of these landlords will give you peace of mind on the quality of accommodation you have chosen.
In addition, the university will support you if any problems arise.
Therefore with DASH, you can be sure of:
Use our accommodation search to find information about properties let by landlords in this scheme.
Joining the DASH accreditation scheme will give you an advantage in an increasingly competitive market place:
Property advertising
Payment for property advertising only will be made to Derby University.
The annual fees will be as follows:
Accreditation
From June 2024 payments for accreditation will be made directly to DASH (Derby City Council) as part of the renewal process.
The following fees will apply upon application (for both new & renewal applications):
* Please note that DASH fees are non-refundable.
Membership of DASH will be for two years, after which you will need to renew.
On each renewal landlords will need to update their application information, pay the membership fee, complete a new training course and have at least one of their properties inspected by DASH.
Three easy steps:
If you require more information about our accreditation scheme, call the team on +44 (0)1332 594111 .
If you are a University of Derby student looking for private accommodation, we recommend that you rent a property that is let by an accredited landlord.
The University of Derby operates an accredited private landlord scheme in conjunction with housing organisation DASH Services and we only advertise properties that belong to this scheme.
You can use our accommodation search to find accredited properties.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/faqs:
Watch this short video where Kerry, one of our Hall Managers, answers your questions about halls of residence.
View your accommod­ation questions answered video transcript
Only those with a firm offer from Derby (unconditional or conditional) can apply for halls.
So once you've chosen Derby as your first choice University and accepted your offer, just wait 48 hours to apply for halls.
We allocate rooms on a first come first served basis so we recommend you apply as soon as you can.
However, don't worry if you're still waiting for an offer as we guarantee a room in halls to all students who apply by 31 July.
You'll be asked to pay a £50 booking fee when you apply but that is then deducted off your first term's rent.
After that initial payment, most people pay for halls in instalments which coincide with when they receive their maintenance loan payments.
The annual deadlines for the instalments are on these dates:
Extra nights
You'll also need to pay for any extra nights that you stay in halls outside your charging period.
All payments for halls fees need to be made online
Pay online
The September 2025 moving in dates are Friday 12, Saturday 13 and Sunday 14 September.
After A Level results day on 14 August you will be able to book an arrival slot via your Student Living account .
Also if for any reason those dates are not convenient for you, you'll have the option to move in earlier or later.
More information about moving into halls
There are two Sainsbury's Locals (on Nuns Street and Kedleston Road), one Co-op on Ashbourne Road, an Asda at Five Lamps as well as a Lidl store on Uttoxeter New Road.
All are just a short walk from halls.
Halls fees are all-inclusive and fixed for the year, so you can budget more effectively knowing what your costs are.
For 2024 -2025 the weekly prices range from £115 - £174 a week for undergraduate accommodation.
All hall residents also benefit from free room contents insurance , access to lots of free and subsidised events , a regular free cleaning service* and 24/7 staffing and support.
* except at Darley Bank and Flamsteed Court
Remember, in private sector accommodation, you may be charged for gas, electricity and water separately to your rent, so it's more unpredictable to estimate what your actual costs might be.
Other things you may need to budget for, as well as accommodation, are laundry, food, toiletries, transport, course materials, social life and parking.
Glide Gigabit service is superfast and included in the hall’s fees.
It’s possible to connect up to 25 devices with Glide’s free ‘Home Network’ service, which allows your devices to connect to each other, whilst remaining private from your neighbours.
If you want to take advantage of this free service, just remember to add it to your basket when creating your Glide account!
Glide provides both wired and wireless internet access in your room.
The Glide Gigabit service will deliver speeds of:
You can visit Glide’s help and support web page , which offers lots of useful guides to support you getting online
It is easy to register and get connected, but if you need support at any stage, Glide’s Service Desk is open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and will be happy to help.
You can make contact via:
We aim to make our halls as safe as possible.
There’s CCTV at every hall, each block is accessible by fob, each flat door locks by itself and each bedroom has a lock too.
Security staff are on duty every night and there’s a 24 hour hall mobile number at every hall that you can phone in an emergency.
There are also secure bike sheds at most halls which are free to use.
The University is aware of the draft Building Safety Bill which is likely to come before Parliament at some point in 2022.
It takes its responsibility for the safety of all premises occupants very seriously and seeks to constantly improve its systems.
With this in mind, the University appointed a new Head of Compliance and Sustainability in July 2020 and a new Fire Safety Manager to that department in May 2021.
These posts will be working in conjunction with Student Living to create the systems that will meet the anticipated requirements of the forthcoming bill.
It is intended that the university will align with the BS9997 accreditation which will meet the anticipated requirements of the bill and place the University in a forward position.
This work will commence in the current academic year.
In the meantime, all residences are subject to regular fire safety maintenance and inspections and all incoming residents receive information regarding fire safety in their area through e-inductions and regular site update bulletins.
Residents with particular needs are encouraged to share this information so that tailored evacuation plans can be agreed with them individually.
All buildings contain fire safety boxes that the authorities are able to access in an emergency.
Fire evacuation drills are completed at all residential properties to ensure familiarisation with the correct process in the event of an alarm activation.
To find out how far the university sites are from each hall, please take a look at our halls pages .
The Unibus is a bus service for all students and staff at the University.
You'll need your student ID card when boarding the bus.
The Unibus provides a great service for everyone that links all the University of Derby sites, the main halls of residence, Derby city centre, Markeaton Park Park and Ride, Derby train station and supermarkets.
Yes, if you want to bring a TV for gaming that’s fine.
However, for viewing TV programmes we recommend you use your PC or laptop – it will give you a better reception than a TV.
The wired & wireless internet service provided by Glide throughout University residences will support use of third-party:
Anyone who watches live TV broadcasts or BBC programmes on iPlayer (live, catch up or on demand) in their room requires a TV licence.
It doesn’t matter what device you watch it on.
If you don’t have a licence and you do watch TV in your room you risk a fine of up to £1000 plus court costs.
More information on how to buy your licence
Yes, you can have a visitor stay for a maximum of two nights out of any seven.
The only exception to this is on the first weekend when people move in as this can interfere with flatmates settling in together.
Before any visitor's stay, you should fill in a Visitor Form online.
It is also polite to let your flatmates know if you have someone staying.
We'll email you when your Royal Mail post/food boxes or flower delivery arrives so you can collect them from the hall office during post collection times.
Just bring your I.D.
with you to prove who you are.
With all other courier parcels, you will get an email directly from the courier company, but you should still collect it from the office.
There is so much you can do in Derby, and most of it is just a short walk away from your halls!
There are shops, restaurants, bars, clubs, cinemas, a museum and places to visit on days out.
Find out more about what Derby has to offer .
There are a lot of shops near our hall communities including two Sainsbury’s Local shops and two Cooperative supermarkets.
Finally, the DERBION shopping centre is just a short walk away.
You can usually only leave halls at certain times for the year, but you may incur costs depending on the situation and how far through your course you are.
Find out more about leaving halls part way through your contract .
If you need to go on placement, more information about accommodation options and advice is available here .
A lot of people decide they want to change rooms for a number of reasons: room types, locations, flatmates, etc.
Find out more information about room swaps here .
See our tips on how to get on better with your flatmates , and what you can do if it's not working out.
If someone's noise is causing you problems, you should contact the member of staff on duty either in person or by ringing the hall mobile.
It's best to let them know at the time the noise is actually happening so they can check it out there and then.
They will then take steps to stop the noise from happening again.
It's worth remembering that being considerate about noise works both ways.
When you're listening to music use headphones to minimise the disturbance for others.
Try not to slam doors or shout late at night when you are coming in.
Also take extra care to keep noise levels down during key exam and revision periods.
If you would like to stay in halls over the summer, you can live in our summer hall.
Find out more about this summer's hall
We recommend you apply for a summer stay as soon as you know you need to stay during the summer.
The closing date for summer applications is early June.
If you already live in halls and you want to stay in halls over the summer, even if it is for only one day after your current contract finishes, you will still need to apply online.
You do not need to move out and empty your room for the Christmas and Easter holidays.
However, if you are going home for the holidays, it makes sense to take any valuables with you.
You will need to move out at the end of your halls of residence contract.
Please check your contract for details.
On the last day of your contract, you will need to vacate your room by 10 am.
We understand there can be times when juggling your budget can leave you with money issues.
It’s perfectly normal to have money issues from time to time.
Just don’t ignore things - face them head on.
If you lose your keys, please report it to a member of staff either in person or on the hall mobile.
They will replace your keys immediately.
However, if after a week, you still haven’t found them, we will charge you for a new set.
One of the most important things you can do when you leave halls is make sure everything is clean and tidy.
That way you'll avoid unnecessary charges.
Use our moving out checklist to make sure you've done everything you need to.
If someone with a car is coming to help you move out, please be aware there is limited parking at each hall.
Speak to your Hall Manager in advance, but it should be OK for them to come and temporarily park in any available space if there is one at the time.
When you move out, make sure you haven't left any of your property in your flat and try to leave your room clean and undamaged.
We'll check everything after you've left against the inventory you completed on arrival.
If your room needs any extra cleaning or repairs we will have to charge you for them.
You MUST also make sure that all communal areas are clean and tidy before you leave and you may be charged if there is any damage or cleaning required once you have left.
Student Living will base these charges on key return dates.
Student Living is entitled to charge you under the terms outlined in the Licence Agreement .
Your Hall Manager will write and let you know if you have incurred any charges.
If you want to, you can live in halls again .
Many second and third year students return to halls because they like the convenience, the all-inclusive price and the special offers for returners.
Returners usually apply with a group of friends in November, so if you’ve got friends you’d like to move in with in the second year, you can all apply together .
If students want to live in private accommodation in their second and third years, we recommend they apply for properties from DASH (Decent and Safe Homes) approved landlords.
Find out more about the DASH scheme .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/contact-us:
Moving into student accommodation is an exciting experience but we know it can also be a daunting one.
The staff at the Student Housing Centre are here to help you from beginning to end, so whether you need support with applying for your room, questions regarding health issues and disabilities, or if you're having problems with your accommodation, we're on hand to guide you through.
If you need to get in touch, you can:
View Student Housing Centre access guide
If you'd rather have a chat face to face, our Student Housing Centre door is open:
Agard Court: 6 Agard Street, DE1 1DZ T: 01332 594157 M: 07771 838986 E: agardcourt@derby.ac.uk
Darley Bank: 7-11 Brook Street, Derby, DE1 3PF T: +44 (0)1332 593447 M: 07810 182300 E: darleybank@derby.ac.uk
Flamsteed Court: Kedleston Old Road, Derby, DE22 1GA T: +44 (0)1332 594163 M: 07901 513387 E: flamsteedcourt@derby.ac.uk
Nunnery Court: Nuns Street, Derby  DE1 3LQ T: +44(0)1332 594162 M: 07771 838990 E: nunnerycourt@derby.ac.uk
Peak Court: Lodge Lane, Derby, DE1 3GZ T: +44 (0)1332 594161 M: 07771 838993 E: peakcourt@derby.ac.uk
Princess Alice Court: Bridge St, Derby, DE13LD.
T: +44(0)1332 594159 M: 07771 838992 E: princessalicecourt@derby.ac.uk
St Christopher's Court: Ashbourne Road, Derby DE22 3FY T: +44 (0)1332 59 4158 M: 07771 838902 E: stchristopherscourt@derby.ac.uk
Visit us at one of our Undergraduate or Postgraduate Open Days or book a Campus Tour and see what it’s like to study at Derby.
Chat to our students, meet the teaching team, explore the campus, a...

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/once-you-are-here/halls-events-and-social-life:
View Residence Life at the University of Derby video transcript
Our Residence Life events and activities programme is organised to help students settle into their new environment, make friends and try new things.
This is especially important at the start of the year, when you may be feeling a bit homesick or nervous about meeting new people.
Most halls events are free to attend and you can turn up without booking.
It’s a ready-made social life on your doorstep, where the emphasis is on having fun and welcoming new people.
You'll become part of a big, friendly community and be able to attend events and socialise with a wide variety of students, from your own hall and other halls nearby.
Our regular weekly and fortnightly events are a great way to meet like-minded people and connect with your community.
Whether you're into wellness, creativity, or just having fun, there's something for everyone.
Choose from weekly yoga and cookery classes, fortnightly creative arts sessions, or join us for board game and film nights.
We also run a lively sports programme and would love to hear what sports you'd like to get involved in.
Find out more about hall sports
For fans of fantasy and storytelling, our vibrant Dungeons & Dragons (D&D) community hosts regular meetups across several halls.
Whether you're a seasoned player or curious to try it out, you're welcome to join in.
To get involved, share ideas, or give feedback, email us at socialreps@derby.ac.uk .
Some events below may require you to book your place by:
Join our thriving D&D community.
Free to attend - just turn up.
Beginners are welcome.
Artisan Alley (Union event)
All Student meeting (Union event)
All ingredients provided.
Yoga mats provided.
Free careers advice on your doorstep.
No need to book - just turn up.
Have fun being creative with Marie.
All materials provided.
Quiz theme: Halloween.
Snacks provided.
Free confidential, non-judgemental drug and alcohol advice.
Ingredients provided.
Book your place on the UOD Active app.
Staff are always on-site so feel free to pop into the office for a friendly chat or, if you are experiencing any problems, talk to your Hall Manager.
The Residential Assistants and cleaners do weekly flat visits so you’ll soon get to know your whole halls team.
Another bonus is the on-site common room which includes a free pool table, Playstation four, large TV and board games.
Students can also book the room for free for a private gathering with friends.
Just speak to your Hall Manager and they’ll be happy to help you arrange it.
Watch as students Harry, Tan, Charley and Jack, let you into their day-to-day lives, talking about their own experiences and what they love about halls.
From exploring Derby or cooking in halls, to being a part of halls events or meeting up with society friends, this will give you a true flavour of life in halls.
View A place called home: Living with the University of Derby video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/applying/the-benefits-of-living-in-halls:
Halls is a guaranteed way of meeting new people and making amazing friends and memories.
Halls are very convenient and easy.
Buses to Uni are really frequent.
There are lots of shops nearby, and there are a few University buildings close by for a very short commute.
Live in Derby halls and get the full 'University experience'.
Our award-winning accommodation offers a wide choice of rooms, a safe and secure environment and excellent wellbeing and customer support.
Join our vibrant student community, make new friends, take part in our halls events and make the most of student life.
Living in halls gives you the opportunity to meet a wide variety of people, build your self-confidence and live independently, maybe for the first time.
You'll have the chance to meet new people, try new things and broaden your horizons.
The events organised by the halls social team will put you in touch with other students in the halls community and you'll be able to take part in lots of free or subsidised activities with them.
Everything from quizzes, bingo nights and cookery classes, to day trips, inter-hall tournaments, and outdoor activities like paddleboarding and goat yoga.
In addition, every undergraduate hall has a common room with shared facilities like Playstation 4, table tennis, and pool which are free to use.
You and your flatmates can even book the room out for your own gathering!
Apply to stay in halls
Halls are a great place to live.
I've met loads of new people and tried new things through the halls events programme.
I wouldn't have missed living in halls for anything.
I've made life-long friends.
If you live in halls you'll be able to concentrate on being a student and leave the difficult stuff to us:
* except Flamsteed Court and Darley Bank
** No parking at Agard Court and Darley Bank
Apply now to stay in halls
Halls are conveniently close and within walking distance of all academic campuses, as well as being located on the Unibus route.
Living in halls allows students to make friends outside of their course, and offers more opportunities to take part in events and socialising.
Whether you're a new student, an overseas student, a returning student, an apprentice or someone who needs their room adapted for health requirements, you'll find there are so many reasons why University-owned halls are the best option.
Halls are the ideal environment to help you navigate University life.
You'll have all the benefits of independent living, without the hassle and you'll enjoy the friendly and supportive environment that halls provide.
Living in halls is the best way to make friends and settle into University life and our staff are on hand to help you every step of the way.
Check out our seven halls of residence in Derby.
Hundreds of second, third and fourth-year students live in our halls community.
They usually apply to share a flat with a group of friends and live in a block with other returners.
Scared of missing out?
Just because you are local to the area it doesn't mean you can't have the full halls experience.
This hall has double studios for dual occupancy at really good rates.
Coming to the UK to study?
Our award-winning halls team will give you a warm welcome and help you settle into your new home.
If you have particular health or mobility requirements we can arrange for you to have your room adapted to meet your needs.
From the very start, everyone from the cleaners to the Residential Assistants, security and management have worked diligently to supply a fun, friendly environment for all students, to ensure a smooth and enjoyable transition to University life.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/what-are-halls-like.php:
[We begin with Alice in front of Peak Court]
Alice: Hi I'm Alice and I'm here at a University of Derby Hall of residence.
I'm visiting today to find out what life is like in halls for our students.
Let's head inside now, we're going to meet Kirk who's the manager of  these halls and he's going to show me around.
Hi Kirk!
Kirk: Hi Alice, how you doing, are you ok?
Alice: Nice to meet you yes, good to see you.
Kirk: Nice to meet you too.
Alice: So Kirk, we're here - we're outside - beautiful  courtyard - we're surrounded by trees -how many rooms have you got in this hall of residence?
Kirk: So in this hall of residence we've got 245 rooms it's a completely ensuite on these halls but we across the portfolio we have halls that are standard where they have a shared bathroom and you have other halls which  have a ensuite like this one here.
Alice: So we're in a lovely outdoor space here, there's plenty of car parking here Kirk, can students bring their own car to University?
Alice: They can if they apply for a car parking permit, but we sort of encourage students not to bring a car unless they absolutely have to because the University itself has got a bus service so then you'll be able to get all the way to the University campus at Kedleston Road.
You'll also be able to get to the other campuses as well, and the bus stop will either be right outside your Halls or a very very short walk just down the road and we also have bike sheds as well which are free.
Alice: And all the campuses and Halls of residence, they're all quite close together aren't they?
Kirk: Absolutely close - you can walk between each Hall of residence you walk to all the campuses I mean  if it's a nice sunny day then I always encourage students to walk up to the Kedleston Road, I would do myself so yeah.
Alice: Brilliant, shall we go inside and have a look around?
Kirk: Yeah absolutely
Alice: Great, thanks.
[They enter the reception corridor]
Kirk: So this is the site office: each Halls of residence has a site office and there'll be a hall manager in there or as we've got right now - Issy - one of our Residential Assistants, and students can come here and raise any concerns they might have, ask any questions.
Alice: I noticed on the way in it's very secure, I couldn't get in without you coming to let me in how do you keep students safe within the building?
Kirk: You can't get into the building without a fob to get into the main Block; You've then got a key which will get you into your flat door; and then another key which will get you into your room, so it's very secure we've also got 24 hour staffing here on site.
[Alice and Kirk move into the common room]
Alice: So, Kirk - what happens in here?
Kirk: Right well this is one of our common rooms.
All of the halls of residents have a common  room, most of them are will have a pool table some of the slightly larger ones will have a table tennis  table, but it's just a place for students to come and relax maybe have a few friends around, they  might come in here if they want to make slightly more noise than they do in their actual flats  and they can do that in a common room.
We also have Halls events here and we have music nights  all sorts going on and it's all provided for this students for free.
Alice: So tell me what sort of facilities do we have in the in the flats?
Kirk: You've got in the kitchen you have a microwave we provide  a toaster we provide a kettle
Alice: And with five or six people living in a flat together and you know I've done it myself it's you know, who made that mess, who's responsible for this', how do how do things stay clean and tidy and organized in flats?
Kirk: So there's there's a couple of ways one of the first is that  we provide cleaning for the kitchen in our Halls of residence, once a week a cleaner will come and clean the kitchen for them (*Halls Cleaning is not currently offered at Darley Bank) the other side of it is is more sort of communal living so students will learn to live with each other, learn to clean up after themselves.
Alice: All important life skills that they need to learn and this seems like a nice safe and supportive place to do that?
Kirk: Yeah it completely is and like I say, we treat the students like they are they're adults and we like to encourage them to resolve any problems they have amongst themselves but also we understand that living with four or five new people can be challenging sometimes and that's why we're there to support the students through that experience.
[Alice and Kirk cross the green courtyard into one of the flat blocks and head into a student kitchen]
Kirk: Hi guys how you going?
Uh yeah I've just  got Alice's she just wants to ask you a few questions about what it's like living in Halls, would you like to give her a bit of your time?
[Three students sat at the kitchen table nod their agreement]
Kirk: Amazing, cheers guys.
Alice: Thank you ever so much for letting me into your flat like this, What's it like living in Halls?
George: Honestly...really good, can't lie.
Mates for Life, Close to campus, close to the city center.
Alice: So for any students who might be  living potentially close enough just to commute in, and not try and live in Derby, what would you say to them?
Nathan: Yeah I had that option and I'm really glad I went with Halls because you just get put with people straight away and you get to meet friends straight away and you're really part of the action.
Alice: And what would you say is the best thing about living in halls all of you?
George: Friendly staff - Kirks' always smiley,always happy.
Liam: He's always that like person that you can go to if anything's wrong.
Alice: Now you know I've seen your kitchen, I've seen your communal spaces would any of you mind giving me a little look around your bedroom so we can see what the bedroom spaces look like?
George: Yeah sure, do you want to follow me?
[George and Alice head to look at George's room in the flat]
George: So this is a standard ensuite room at Peak.
You've got a small double bed it's more than more than enough for a student.
A desk big enough for your work, games, books, anything you need.
Got a more than big enough wardrobe behind you and a ensuite with a shower and toilet.
Alice: Brilliant, it's really lovely.
[Alice is back outside the flat block]
Alice: So that's our Halls of residence: a safe,  supportive and well located place to live for students.
Visit our website to find out  more about all our different Halls.
Back to Accommodation

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/virtual-open-day-agard-court-tour.php:
Tamzin will be your guide today.
Tamzin: Hey, let me show you one of the accommodation options here at Derby.
(Security is very important to our accommodation)
These halls are a two minute walk from the city centre, meaning it's really easy to get to and from the university.
Follow me.
Derby provides all of the basics for your room.
The bed, the storage, the desk, then you can personalise your space how you want to.
There's everything that you need in the room, there's the en suite which has the toilet and a shower.
There's a place to sleep, and a place to study.
We even have cleaners on site which are included in the cost.
(In most halls, cleaners come in once a week to clean the communal areas.)
So this is the kitchen space, it has everything that you could need.
There's a fridge freezer, there's a toaster, the cooker, the kettle and a microwave.
And there's always a space to eat too, which is really great.
Come on, we'll show you the laundry area.
So this is our main social space.
There's always something going on in here if you don't feel like venturing out of the block, there's loads to do in the building.
So, that's everything to show you.
A few of us are gonna go and get some food now if you want to join us.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/our-halls/room-types:
Agard Court , Darley Bank , Nunnery Court , Peak Court , Princess Alice Court and St Christopher's Court are halls that are suitable for both undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Flamsteed Court is suitable for mature and postgraduate students.
Most of our halls also offer adapted rooms for students with special requirements.
The table below explains all of our room types available at these halls and will help you to decide which one's best for you.
If you have any questions, please email us at studentliving@derby.ac.uk .
£180.03
As well as having their own en suite facilities and double* beds, these rooms/flats have extra features – some are larger rooms, some have social spaces with a TV in the kitchen area, some have been recently refurbished.
En suite rooms with small double and single beds are available.
These rooms have their own washbasin but share toilet and shower facilities with other rooms in the flat.
They all have double* beds and have been recently refurbished.
They all have single beds.
Small £185.01, medium £192.07, large £199.79
If a couple share then price per person is half.
All of our studios are for 51-week contracts.
Studios have a double bed*, soft seating, kitchenette, desk and study area and their own en suite.
They are for dual occupancy.
Prices vary according to size.
We can provide adapted versions of most room types for those with a disability or medical condition.
Adapted kitchens and wet rooms can be provided where required.
Most adapted rooms are en suite.
If you need an adapted room, please contact us to discuss your needs or give details in the notes section when you apply.
Open plan kitchen/diner with full kitchen including washer/dryer and dining table and chairs.
Lounge area with fireplace, TV and sofa.
Bedrooms with full-size double bed, desk and wardrobe.
En suite bathrooms, some with bath and shower.
44 week contract
As above but rooms and apartments are less up-to-date.
As above but only one bedroom in the apartment so single occupation.
*small double bed
When you're about to move away from home to settle into university life, it's important that you feel at home in your new accommodation.
We have a wide variety of room types to cater for everyone's needs.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/applying/local-students:
The feedback we get from halls residents who are from the local area demonstrates the advantages halls can provide.
Hannah from Derby, who is studying Psychology said:
"Living in halls was a chapter full of 2am conversations, wild study nights and a community that has truly become a second family, I will cherish those memories forever."
Another student told us:
"Living in halls close to home means I have independence being away from home but I am close enough to visit home when I want to."
View Why choose Halls?
A local student’s guide to embracing university life video transcript
Even if you live near the University, opting to live in halls can give you that first taste of independence and help to immerse you in University life.
You'll have the chance to meet people who you wouldn't otherwise meet and you'll widen your circle of friends to include people on a variety of courses.
Student Living accepts applications from local students and guarantees them a place in halls if they apply by 31 July.
View our halls Apply for halls
Halls gave me the freedom to live on my own without the hassle of maintenance bills and landlords.
Living in halls has allowed me to meet loads of my friends.
If I had commuted, I wouldn’t have been able to be as actively involved in the University sports offering (Equestrian team) or the social life that comes with it.
Living in halls gives you the freedom and flexibility to take advantage of everything the University has to offer whether that’s hanging out with flatmates, joining a club or society, staying late at the library or joining in those regular Union nights out without being hampered by the time constraints, timetables and delays that commuting can generate.
For many people moving away from home is part and parcel of the University experience, a chance to be independent and start living an adult life away from parents and family.
OK, so you may miss some home comforts but living in halls will enable you to live independently while benefitting from a supportive environment if you need it.
It’s the perfect first step on the road to being a fully-fledged adult.
At Derby we have a thriving halls community across seven halls of residence so there’s a chance to get to know a wide variety of people from all over the UK and the world.
Our Residence Life programme of mostly free events and activities enables you to try different things, visit new places and make friends without breaking the budget.
Halls are a great way to start your university journey.
I wanted to experience independence and understand what it’s like to live on my own.
I was able to make life-long friends and meet new people that I am able to count on.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside/adventure-seeker:
Are you a modern day dare devil who lives life at full speed, always chasing new and exciting experiences?
If you are, Derby is the place for you.
The city and surrounding countryside have many attractions and adventures for you to explore, all of which will get your adrenaline flowing.
Derby’s local sports facilities, lakes and racetracks offer a great selection of activities which include car racing, paintballing, quad biking and water sports.
Love cycling or BMXing?
Alvaston Park has one of the best BMX tracks in the country , while Derby Arena is home to a 250-metre indoor velodrome cycling track.
Also, being right on the edge of the Peak District, Derby is the perfect location for adventurous activities such as mountain biking, rock climbing, bouldering, abseiling, caving, kayaking, hang and paragliding and more.
And, if you want to venture outside of Derby, there are two theme parks less than an hour away that are voted amongst the best in Europe.
Feel alive whilst experiencing life-changing activities at the University of Derby!
If culture, local history, and a variety of food is your thing, explore the city's historic buildings, museums and galleries, or treat yourself to a trip to our very own theatre.
If you live and breathe music, Derby’s exciting music scene is the place for you.
Whether you idolise world-famous stars or champion up-and-coming bands, Derby has all the gigs and fest...
Not everyone is a 24/7 party animal, so if your general approach to life is more laid back or you're in need of a break from your hectic schedule, you'll find derby a great place to relax.
Whether it's the typical student bars around campus you're visiting for a quick drink or a night out in the city, there are many venues to choose from.
With our fantastic sports centre facility at our Kedleston Road Campus, there are plenty of clubs, sports activities, and fitness opportunities for you to get involved in.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside/theatre-buff:
If culture, local history, and a variety of food is your thing, you’ll love discovering Derby.
Explore the city's historic buildings, museums and galleries, or treat yourself to a trip to our very own theatre.
Love the theatre?
As a student, you'll be able to see hundreds of shows at Derby Theatre for just £5!
Derby QUAD hosts Derby's growing arts scene, with film screenings, exhibitions, workshops, short courses and much more.
The newest addition to Derby's cultural scene is the Museum of Making , which tells the story of the area's rich heritage of innovation and its role in the industrial revolution.
Food and drink lovers, you won't be left out either.
The city has regular farmers' markets, a choice of restaurants, cafés, bars and pubs which includes the haunted Ye Olde Dolphin Inne , which dates back to 1530.
Derby is also home to Bustler Market , an award-winning street food market that's perfect for socialising too.
The annual Derby Folk Festival is not to be missed, and further afield there are iconic tourist attractions like Chatsworth House , perfect for spending a day out with friends or family.
Broaden your horizons and develop your knowledge of Derby by immersing yourself in the history and culture of our city.
My favourite place to go is the Quad.
There’s a cinema where you can watch independent and mainstream films, a café downstairs where you can do your work and different workshops throughout the week.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside/gig-goer:
Whether you idolise world-famous stars or champion up-and-coming bands, Derby has all the gigs and festivals you need.
Maybe you prefer popular artists, or rising stars?
Intimate gigs, or large-scale festivals?
Whatever your preference, Derby has lots of variety and is the place to see both upcoming talent as well as established international bands.
If you are a keen festival goer, head to iconic annual festivals like Download and Y Not Festival for an unforgettable experience.
Neither are too far from Derby City Centre and are easily accessible.
Do you enjoy a more relaxed setting?
Many pubs around the city regularly host live music from a variety of artists and genres.
And if you play music yourself, you’re in for a treat.
Derby has regular open mic nights at venues such as The Creaky Floorboard where you can showcase your talent.
If music makes you feel alive, join us, and experience the best of Derby.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside/nature-lover:
Derby and the surrounding countryside, as well as the Peak District , has vast open green space to explore, allowing you to easily wind down and de-stress from your studies.
What’s more, Markeaton Park , Darley Park and Allestree Park are all within walking distance of our main university campus at Kedleston Road.
If the outdoors isn’t your thing, and you find shopping and indoor activities relaxing, Derby’s Derbion shopping centre features high-profile brands such as Superdry, Next, H&M and Game, as well as a Showcase Cinema, Hollywood Bowl and Paradise Island Adventure Golf.
Outside features the cobbled Cathedral Quarter , where you can visit independent boutique and vintage shops whilst enjoying a calm, friendly atmosphere.
And maybe you don’t enjoy shopping at all and enjoy local cafés and quiet lunches.
If that’s you, pop along to Apple Tree, Bear and Heavenly Desserts for something sweet or savoury.
Fancy a stroll?
Markeaton Park and Darley Park are beautiful parks, just a short walk from the University.
Both are among six of our city's parks that have Green Flag status , which puts them among the best in the world!
If you’re looking for a calming city to complete your university degree, come to Derby!
I get very busy studying and doing work, so I like to find a place to relax.
It's great being so close to Markeaton Park because it's the perfect place to visit to find that relaxing atmosphere.
I really like the café.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside/night-owl:
Do you come alive when the sun goes down?
In Derby you’ll have plenty of opportunity for memorable nights out.
Whether it’s the typical student bars around campus you’re visiting for a quick drink, or a night out in the city, there’s many venues to choose from.
From chilling out whilst having a game of darts or pool in a real ale pub, to sipping fancy cocktails in bars, and dancing in clubs, Derby has everything to offer when it comes to the nightlife experience.
We have plenty of fantastic restaurants and bars like Suds & Soda and Turtle Bay to whet your appetite, before you can move on to nightclubs such as Popworld to really kickstart your evening.
Derby is also a Purple Flag city , meaning we meet the five core standards required and are seen as excellent when managing the evening and night-time economy.
Make many lifelong memories experiencing the nightlife in Derby!
Watch the video below as we reveal what a night out in Derby is really like for students.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside/sports-enthusiast:
If you have a passion for a particular sport or just enjoy being active, Derby is the university for you.
You can enjoy a variety of sports and fitness activities through our Sports Centre membership and UoD Active programme.
The Sports Centre is fully equipped with facilities such as badminton courts, a newly refurbished gym, exercise studios, squash courts, a climbing wall, 3G pitches and outdoor tennis courts.
And with over 40 sports clubs on offer, there’s sure to be something here for you at Derby.
Outside of the university, sport is central to Derby’s culture.
It’s home to The Rams Pride Park Stadium , a 250-metre indoor velodrome , Moorways Sports Village and Water Park , golf courses and one of the country’s best BMX tracks.
And for those of you who are into adventure sports, the Peak District National Park hosts a range of outdoor sports and is just a stone’s throw away.
Whether you’re looking to get active, remain active , or find a new sporting passion , do it at Derby.
The thrill I get when using the University of Derby’s sports centre is great.
I enjoy unleashing my potential and challenging myself in the badminton court, the state-of-the-art fitness suite and gym, the dynamic cycling studio, and the squash courts!

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside/top-five-questions:
We've answered the top five questions we receive about living in Derby so you can catch up on what there is to know about being a student here.
We're a big-little city, with a population of over 250,000.
With a large indoor shopping centre , a range of bars and restaurants and leisure facilities like our own Derby Theatre , plus the cycling velodrome arena , you should find there's everything you need - but on a scale where they're close enough to keep everyone together!
Derby is a diverse and neighbourly city, with green open spaces, and a mix of high street and bustling independent places to shop, eat and drink.
Our central UK location gives you the best of all worlds - everything you need is close by, whether you want a day out in the Peak District or a trip to London via a 90-minute train.
As a student, you'll be able to live quite centrally, either in our accommodation or privately.
And as a city that's home to some big-name industries, you may find it's a great place to stay after university as well.
One of the benefits of coming to Derby is that all our accommodation is located close to our campus sites and the city centre.
We think you'll be happy with the location of whichever hall you choose, but if we were to measure exactly, these are the halls you would arrive at first from each site:
Derby Train Station and Derby Bus Station are both stops for our Unibus service , which can also take you to our halls, and various campus sites.
And if you need to get to Kedleston Road another way, or at the weekend, you can still come by the Allestree bus , which drops you off at the main road.
Starting in the city centre, you'll find our Law and Social Sciences space at One Friar Gate Square .
Moving along Ashbourne Road, you'll find courses in Art and Design, Engineering and Technology, and Health and Social Care at Britannia Mill and Markeaton Street .
Then at Kedleston Road , you'll find our largest site where the rest of our courses are based, such as Business, Humanities, Education, Science, and the rest of Health, Psychology and Social Care.
You can explore facilities at each campus site by using our Virtual Tour .
Read more about the city including where our students recommend and which places might suit your interests.
Guidance on how to get to each of our sites using different transportation methods.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/city-countryside/things-to-do-in-derbyshire:
Live music, vibrant food, thrilling sports, dramatic scenery, arts and theatre… whatever you're into, there's something for everyone.
Summer 2025 is set to be one to remember, with the opening of the new Vaillant Live arena and Derby's revamped Market Hall set to transform the social and entertainment landscape of the city centre.
Derbyshire is the place to be this season, so here's our pick of unmissable experiences across the county this summer.
It's festival season.
Don your boots, sequins and rain macs and enjoy some of the best events in the Midlands this summer, all on your doorstep so a warm shower is never too far away.
Explore our top picks and don't forget to book your tickets before they sell out!
It began in 2005 at a house party for 120 people… 20 years later it retains the same fun and carefree ethos with a line up to feed everyone’s appetite.
Act quick, this one’s bound to sell out.
Bloodstock Open Air festival is the ultimate heavy metal weekender, bringing together the biggest names in metal.
Think earth-shattering riffs and all-night headbanging.
Image credit: Bloodstock
The three day music event returns, set against the stunning backdrop of Darley Park.
Enjoy the ultimate 80s and 90s mixtape, and don't forget to bring a picnic!
Home of pudding (the Bakewell kind), oatcakes and Stilton, Derby certainly isn't short of good food.
With options to suit every taste and budget, from gin and rum to cider and sausages , there's something on the menu for everyone this summer in Derbyshire.
Brand new for summer 2025, the Market Hall is your new go-to spot; a buzzing hub of independent producers and creatives, street food and drink, music, entertainment and more all under one roof!
Release your ‘inner foodie’ at Bustler Market, bringing together the finest street food vendors, vibrant entertainment, craft drinks & cocktail options, all in one buzzing location.
Head over to Markeaton Park for the food and drink festival.
Whether you're a die-hard foodie or just looking for a fun day out, grab your mates and come hungry!
There's nothing quite like experiencing your favourite music live and sharing the moment with friends and other like-minded fans, or letting off steam over a few drinks after a busy week.
As a proud Purple Flag city, Derby offers a safe, welcoming, and vibrant environment, especially during the evenings, and there's plenty on offer to enjoy.
Take a look over our picks of nightlife in the city this season.
Brand new to Derby, Molly Malone's opened it's doors this spring.
Expect live music with an Irish touch, good times, great craic, and always free entry and student drinks deals.
Missed out on tickets to the Oasis tour?
Catch the next best thing as the UK's official number one Oasis tribute band and leading Stereophonics tribute band come together to perform the greatest hits.
Get ready for a feel good night of euphoric dancing as Kedleston Country House hosts a celebration of classic Ibiza anthems under the stars.
If live music and dancing isn't your thing, why not immerse yourself in Derby's cultural scene?
Check out our picks of alternative evening experiences this season.
A high energy bingo experience with a twist.
Expect nostalgic escapism, rave intervals, neon lights and some seriously cool prizes.
It’s immersive, inclusive and incredible.
A pub.
In the woods.
The name says it all!
Firepits.
Festoon lights.
Friends.
Open most weekends throughout the summer.
Grab your coat and check the website for dates and to book online.
Renowned as the most successful British Indian stand-up comedian in British history, Paul Chowdhry brings his brand new 'Englandia' stand up tour to Derby's Vaillant Live arena.
Derby's cultural scene has plenty to offer including historic buildings, museums and galleries.
View a discounted show at university-owned Derby Theatre, enjoy the fun of the fair with the spectacular backdrop of Chatsworth House, explore creativity at the Museum of Making, or be entertained by comedians, musicians and artists at a street festival.
There's so much to explore.
Showcasing local and national productions from thought-provoking performances to comedy and classics.
Catching a show at Derby Theatre is a good budget-friendly choice with discounted student tickets.
Adventure Cinema returns this summer for a cinema experience under the stars in the enchanting grounds of Calke Abbey.
Don't forget your picnic!
The Cathedral Quarter street circus returns in 2025, promising a vibrant event packed with acrobatic antics, fiery stunts and other spectacular performers.
Swimmer or cyclist, player or spectator - get ready for a summer of sport.
As well as our top three picks below, why not create waves at Moorways Sports Village and Water Park , explore track cycling at Derby Arena , or participate in the Rural Olympics at Carsington water .
Ready to race this summer?
Whether you're smashing a 5K, cruising a 10K, or going all in on the Half Marathon, this one's fast, flat, and seriously scenic.
Round up your mates, lace up, and let’s go!
Catch Derbyshire in action with a side of live music and street food.
Thrilling T20 Blast matches, chilled-out weekend games and a buzzing atmosphere - it’s the perfect way to spend a summer evening.
Ever seen a person pull an eight-tonne tractor?
Spectate in awe as the county's leading strongmen and mighty strongwomen compete in events including The Giant Stone Throw and The 120kg Log Press.
Home to the beautiful Peak District National Park, you don't have to look far to enjoy the outdoors in Derbyshire.
Chill in the sunshine with friends in the city's green spaces including Markeaton Park and Allestree Park or adventure your way through the summer exploring the spectacular scenery.
There's rock climbing, gorge walking, caving, abseiling, paddle boarding and much, much more.
If you’re an adrenaline junkie, take on the head-spinning, heart-pounding, world-class rollercoasters at Alton Towers, home to 40 rides and attractions designed to thrill and delight all ages.
Experience a summer solstice sunrise at the highest point in the Peak District and you'll encounter true adventure: unforgettable views, steep rocks to scramble and even a waterfall.
Derby may be the most landlocked city in the UK, but there's plenty of outdoor fun to be had at Carsington Water, from a range of watersports to cycling and horse riding.
Looking for something a little different?
Take a lucky dip and visit one of the events or activities below.
It's strawberry season!
For something sweet, outdoorsy, British-summer-cliché and totally Instagram-worthy, grab your friends and pick your own straight from the rolling hills of South Derbyshire.
Celebrate the culture of the LGBT+ community as Derby Pride brings together the diverse communities in and around Derbyshire.
Experience all the fun of the fair, surrounded by the spectacular parkland of Chatsworth House at one of England's most spectacular annual outdoor events.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/blog/spare-time-in-derby:
Final Year BA (Hons) Journalism student, Johnathan Cowden, provides his advice on the best things to do in Derby
By Johnathan Cowden - 15 February 2023
Moving to a new city can be jarring; especially if you’re coming from another country.
And o nce you arrive in your new city, you may find yourself a little bit bored.
After all, you don’t know where anything is, or what you can do for fun in your spare time.
It can be really important to find things to do though, for your mental health and just to unwind .
Markeaton Park is a beautiful place to be.
It’s the most visited park in Derby, receiving over a million visitors every year, and is located between the University’s Kedleston Road site and the Markeaton Site.
Containing over 200 acres of land, including fields, woods, lakes, and even a craft village, the park is home to much wildlife and history, and is a lovely place to spend time either alone on a nice walk, or with friends.
The Derbion shopping centre is one of the biggest shopping centres in the East Midlands.
Containing almost 200 services, there's a lot to do here!
There are shops, like HMV, Next, Zara and H&M, as well as eateries like Five Guys, Wagamama, and Bear, and even a bowling alley, cinema, mini-golf, and Derby Theatre (owned by the University!).
If you fancy a change, Derby is a very well-connected city and is very well-positioned.
It’s actually the most central city in England!
Nearby are such interesting cities as Stoke-on-Trent, Sheffield, Leicester, Birmingham, and Nottingham.
These places are easy to get to on the bus or train and make for a lovely day out with lots of things to do in each city.
Derby is often cited as one of the birthplaces of the Industrial Revolution, and there’s even a museum about it: The Museum of Making at Derby Silk Mill.
There’s more history to Derby though, as you can find at Pickford’s House, and Derby Museum and Art Gallery, which, as the name suggests, also contains an art gallery.
Derby is an interesting place, and there are many more places that show this.
Derby is absolutely full of restaurants , serving food from all around the world.
From the Caribbean Turtle Bay to the Italian Nico’s, to the Greek Zorba, to the African Afrikana , to the Cosmo World Buffet, as well as many, many more, there’s no chance of you getting bored with the foo d , as there will always be a new dish to try.
There are many places to spend a night out in Derby.
There are two Wetherspoons bars, as well as some older pubs, like the Grade II listed Ye Olde Dolphin Inn, which was built in the late 16 th century, and The Friary, which was built in place of an old 13 th century Dominican Friary.
If clubs are more your style, Derby is also home to a branch of Revolution, Popworld, Mosh, and more.
The Peak District was the first ever place to be designated a National Park in the UK, and it’s easy to see why.
The Peak District, which is located mostly in Derbyshire, is made up of stunning mountains and hills and is a truly beautiful place that attracts millions of visitors per year .
Kinder Scout is the highest point of the Peak District: it’s so high that on a clear day, you can see as far as Wales!
It also hosts one of the highest waterfalls in England , the Kinder Downfall .
Derby is home to many cafés, from huge chains such as Costa and Café Nero to the quirky Book Café in the Cornmarket.
These are lovely places to get your breakfast or just grab a coffee, as is Blends at the Kedleston Road site, which is also attached to Basecamp: a perfect place to get some studying done.
A new city can be tough to deal with, but it ’ s also an opportunity.
Absorbing parts of a new culture and learning about a new place is an amazing chance to grow as a person , as you’ll end up learning about things and meeting people that you’d never have had the chance to if you hadn’t made the decision to go there.
As well as that though, there are a lot of ways to have fun in a new place, especially somewhere like Derby.
Johnathan Cowden is a student from Stockport, Greater Manchester, pursuing a BA in Journalism and creating content as a Communications Ambassador.
He can often be found in a radio studio or writing his next article or script in a café.
He also loves reading non-fiction, listening to music and playing the bass guitar, and visiting the pub with his mates.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/why-derby-perfect-choice:
Psychology student Cyrus Sheridan describes five features of university life that have made Derby the right place to study.
University is often described by many as the “best years of their life”, usually due to the vast quantity of experiences that the lifestyle offers.
As someone who loves to throw themselves into any and all opportunities available to me, picking the right uni was key.
But finding the right balance between course, living accommodations, city/campus life, and having a social life was also important to me.
I fell in love with Derby when I went to an Open Day and now that I’m in my second year, I can absolutely vouch for Derby being the perfect choice for me for five particular reasons:
I do BSc (Hons) Psychology , a subject I’ve always been passionate about.
Derby first appealed to me when I saw that they had modules that aligned with what I was interested in, some of which I hadn’t seen at other universities.
When I visited an Open Day, it really cemented my desire to go here.
The lecturers seemed genuinely friendly, both to each other and everybody else, making them feel like real people.
The course talk was engaging and their passion for their subject and areas of expertise were so apparent.
I really liked this as I knew it would be a crucial factor in helping me stay focused (and awake) during lectures and seminars.
Upon actually starting the course, this sentiment continued across the entire department, which I loved and still enjoy.
Every member of staff is passionate, engaging, and beyond helpful when it comes to assessments and responding to feedback.
There have also been opportunities to get involved in research as a participant or a research assistant, which has been beneficial for furthering my understanding of the course and networking with people in the industry.
Touring the halls during an Open Day was also something that drew me to Derby.
I particularly appreciated each accommodation having its own common room, fitted with a TV and various video game consoles.
Throughout my time at Derby, I have frequently used the common rooms for different fun social events, ranging from halls-hosted events like playing Dungeons and Dragons (DnD) and doing arts and crafts, to friend events like parties, movie and game nights, and karaoke nights.
I also really liked the modern and spacious rooms that halls offer.
I’ve lived at Peak Court for my first and second year (I opted to go back into halls with some of my friends) and absolutely loved it due to its aesthetic and because it is close to shops, city centre, and the University, with a Unibus stop right outside the gate!
All the halls staff are lovely as well, I’ve built up a nice relationship with the weekly cleaners, and the hall managers are very friendly and quick to sort out any issues (maintenance or personal) you have, which is very useful when you’re busy with university work.
Speaking of the location, the city of Derby itself is very pleasant.
I’ll be honest, originally it wasn’t a factor in why I chose Derby, but the city itself is a large part of why I love being at university here.
Derby only gained city status relatively recently, which means it’s big enough to have a bunch of good shops, cafes, restaurants, and activities - but it’s still small enough to not be completely overwhelming.
Now if bustling city life is your style, Nottingham is only about 30 mins away by bus or train, with Birmingham, Manchester, and Leicester being quite nearby as well.
Personally though, I prefer having the amenities of a city without the chaos and noise of one, which Derby truly balances well.
There’s lots of food shops near the accommodations, and a big Lidl roughly 10 mins away that’s entirely flat to walk (which after touring the University of Bath and seeing the massive hills there, I truly appreciate every time I carry my shopping back!).
Derby also has loads of beautiful parks that helped me fall back in love with nature and spending time outside.
I've visited some with friends and even gone alone to clear my head when coursework starts piling up - I highly recommend Darley Park!
Markeaton Park is even right opposite campus on Kedleston Road, a great spot to enjoy nature and unwind while killing time between lectures.
The Peak District is also relatively close, which I’ve gone to a couple times with Hiking Society, and is very good for getting away from everything for a bit if needed.
Societies were definitely something I looked into before coming, and I dipped my toes into quite a few of them (Taekwondo, Dodgeball, Board and Card Games, etc.).
Ultimately Musical Theatre (MT) and DnD (granted this was a halls-hosted group) were the ones I stuck with.
People really aren’t kidding when they say that you meet some of your best friends at uni through societies.
The best people I know and call friends are people who I met through one of these two societies, and I’m forever thankful that I met them.
But societies don’t just let you meet future friends, they also help build your confidence, or at least they sure helped mine to flourish.
I threw myself right in and became basically the equivalent of Social Secretary for halls DnD in my first year and was responsible for helping plan and run semi large-scale events which was incredibly fulfilling watching come to fruition and be enjoyed by my peers.
MT also helped encourage me to perform in front of people and not be afraid of larger crowds, which are traits that I’m glad to have developed on a personal level but also have been great for expanding my CV through a fun hobby.
Through people I’ve met, I’ve also managed to pick up extra work opportunities alongside my studies, which have been absolutely wonderful experiences.
While societies were not where I’d expected to pick up work, Derby’s wide range of ways to get work experience was another factor that drew me towards the Uni.
During my Open Day, I’d learned that the Student’s Union employs students in their cafes (Blends) and shop (Keddie’s).
I really liked that they were willing to work around your university timetable and schedule, and that some other jobs available through the University are opt-in for the same reasoning.
I’ve taken advantage of the variety of opportunities the University offers for work (I’m a Halls Ambassador and Content Creator) and managed to massively build upon my CV and increase my awareness of how the University functions.
These two factors make me greatly appreciate the Uni, and the genuine kindness of all my colleagues makes working fun and rewarding instead of just an obligation.
Overall, Derby has allowed me to truly thrive, and I definitely couldn’t have chosen a better place to have gone to uni.
But don’t just take my word for it!
I recognise everyone has different interests and things that matter to them, so go check out Derby and the University for yourself!
I truly hope you’ll fall in love with it just as much as I have, and find opportunities that allow you to grow and flourish as a person and into who you want to be.
My name is Cyrus and I'm a second-year BSc Psychology student.
I'm an avid member of the uni's Musical Theatre Society.
I also love to partake in board and card games and Dungeons & Dragons.
I work as both a content creator and Halls Ambassador for the uni, both of which are incredibly enjoyable!
Want to head to University and get a degree but not sure what to study?
Try our course finder quiz and see if any of our suggestions are suitable for you.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/blog/student-cost-of-living-in-derby:
By Kira Critchlow - 3 November 2023
Suddenly having to manage your own money as a student can feel overwhelming and stressful, but I have some top tips for making living affordable and easy.
The main large expense that most students have is rent.
Student accommodation in Derby varies depending on whether you go for university owned accommodation , or privately owned, but tends to average around £550-600 per month.
This is considerably less than the price of rent in other university cities.
There is usually an option to pay rent either monthly or termly, which tends to be personal preference, although termly can be a very helpful option if you’re covering your rent with your student loan, as the dates line up perfectly.
Transport costs can be kept under control too.
The UniBus runs regularly from both the city centre and the train station.
TrentBarton offers a student discount on their buses throughout Derbyshire with a student Mango account on their mobile app.
If a taxi is what you need, Uber is available in Derby and Albatross Cars have an ordering app as well.
If you’re planning on going back home during the year, a Railcard may be a viable option, and these can save you 1/3 on rail fares across Great Britain.
Socialising and having leisure time is really important for students to make new friends and enjoy something outside of studying.
There is a huge range of sports and societies available for students to join, the majority of which have a one-off joining fee and free or discounted events for members during term time.
The University gym also offers a discounted student membership rate.
There are a number of activities in the city centre that offer student discounts such as the Showcase Cinema, the Paradise Island Mini-Golf and Hollywood Bowling in the Derbion shopping centre.
You can sign up for student discounts through apps such as UniDays , StudentBeans or TOTUM to use at activities and shops in the city centre, alongside a huge range of online services.
Spotify and Apple Music both offer student discounts, for all of your music streaming needs.
There are also several options for socialising in the city centre.
We have plenty of restaurants that offer student discounts throughout the week such as Pizza Express and Pieminister, alongside a whole host of bars which have drink offers like Revolution, Bunk, The Friary, The Mixing House and Wetherspoons.
If staying in is more your thing, there are apps and websites like JustWatch and Trakt where you can find the cheapest way to watch your favourite shows and movies by filtering by streaming platform.
While a takeaway is not the most cost-effective way to eat, everyone fancies one now and then.
Consider ordering as a group with your friends or housemates to get discounted rates on large orders or make the most of minimum spends for free delivery.
Deliveroo also offers free delivery for students who sign up (a minimum spend may apply).
Where groceries are concerned, there are accessible low-priced supermarkets in the city centre including Lidl and Aldi.
If you shop at other supermarket chains, it’s definitely worth getting a loyalty card to make the most of the discounts available such as the Tesco Clubcard and Sainsburys Nectar card and any tailored discounts on the relevant apps.
If you’re after something specific that’s usually on offer somewhere, there are apps and websites available for comparing prices across supermarkets such as Trolley and Priceable .
Some people prefer to stick to a weekly budget while others might like to review and adjust afterwards, so find what works best for you!
Many bank apps will categorise your spending for you, so you see much more clearly where your money is going and manage that better so you don’t blow the budget as you adjust to living as a student.
We’re all looking for ways to save money as a student, so don’t panic, you’ve got this!
I am a Second Year Accounting and Finance student, a big fan of video games and books both fiction and non-fiction.
Specifically the Assassin's Creed franchise and similar open-world games.
I am also the Deputy Head of the RAG and elected Business School Officer for 23/24.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/talented-athlete-scholarship-scheme:
The University is proud to be a TASS Dual Career Accredited site.
TASS Dual Career Accreditation acknowledges our commitment to dual career support for talented athletes.
It recognises that we provide an enhanced level of academic flexibility and understanding in order to help our talented athletes balance their university studies with a busy sporting schedule.
Our TASS lead is our Performance Sport Manager.
You can contact us at sportsscholars@derby.ac.uk .
View Talented Athlete Accreditation Scheme showcase video transcript
We are committed to supporting Clean Sport in the UK.
All sporting participants have the right to compete in Clean Sport and we have published our Clean Sport commitment .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/performance-sport:
Team Derby is the sporting identity of the University of Derby.
We are committed to improving the performance of the University’s sports clubs.
We run a sector-leading performance programme for Badminton, Basketball, Volleyball, Football, Cycling and Swimming.
This programme has been developed to attract and retain our student-athletes.
Alongside our individual sports scholarships, we also offer a comprehensive support package to team members.
If you are selected for one of our performance teams, you will receive the following support services:
Badminton has been a performance sport for Team Derby since 2012 and the University club’s success continues to go from strength to strength.
Our men's basketball programme provides a fantastic environment for elite and developing players.
Cycling is one of Team Derby’s most successful performance sports and in the 2017/2018 season we ranked the number one university for track cycling.
The men’s and women’s volleyball programme provides a fantastic environment for new and experienced players to compete and train.
Our men's football programme provides experienced players with a fantastic opportunity to train and compete.
Our Performance Swim programme aims to compete for BUCS championship medals and helps support athletes on the pathway to Major Games success.
View Sport at Derby video transcript
Our performance athletes are committed to supporting Clean Sport in the UK.
All sporting participants have the right to compete in Clean Sport.
Find out more about our Clean Sport commitment .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/sports-scholarship-and-bursaries-scheme:
The University of Derby is a sporting hub for talented athletes and coaches.
We have a track record of improving the performance of our University sports clubs and we have created an infrastructure to provide support for talented athletes.
With a significant investment in high-class facilities, such as the Sports Centre and Human Performance Unit, sport science expertise and performance-level coaches, we are attracting more and more talented performers.
We are committed to supporting Clean Sport in the UK and we have published our Clean Sport commitment .
The Sports Scholarship programme aims to help our talented athletes realise their sporting potential and support them through their academic studies.
Our athletes can access an impressive package of support tailored towards their needs, delivered by our experienced and qualified team.
Three of the University's most recent successful sports scholars are cyclist Rhianna Parris-Smith, volleyball player Abi Littler, and badminton player Abbygael Harris.
The Sports Scholarships cater for student athletes competing at a high county level up to senior internationals and studying an undergraduate, postgraduate or online degree.
For further information, please contact sportsscholars@derby.ac.uk .
The University has recently gained Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme Dual Career Accreditation and joins a community of institutions committed to providing student-athletes with dual career opportunities.
Level 1 : Senior International, representing GB at world championship level in the last 12 months Level 2 : Senior National or Junior International level Level 3 : Junior National level
Please apply by completing this form .
Gain an insight into Performance Sport life at the University of Derby and hear about the support that is available to student athletes on our performance sport and sport scholarship programmes.
Jordan Butler, Performance Sports Manager:
If you're a potential student and would like to know more about our sports scholarship programme, please fill out our form and we'll be in touch with further information.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/facilities/human-performance-unit:
It also offers opportunities for our current students to get involved with projects and individual sessions.
We have created a Sports Science and Health for Business package where a range of tests have been designed to give employees an accurate insight into their physical and mental health.
Reach the top of your game on our pioneering sports courses.
Whether you want to undertake ground-breaking research or become a sports and exercise practitioner, we have something for you.
The Human Performance Unit team has worked with Jake Lowe.
The main focus was to analyse Jake's running performance in preparation for the London Marathon.
As part of our Running Package, his blood lactate and heart rate were tested in the below video.
View Jake Lowe's marathon preparation video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/sport-and-activity-workforce-opportunities:
Our Sports Workforce programme provides high-quality hands-on opportunities for students who are passionate about pursuing a career in sport or eager to support our university community's active experience.
The programme offers fantastic learning opportunities that can contribute to your student experience and help you develop skills for later employment.
As one of the team, you will have access to expert knowledge and support, and work closely with members of the Sport & Activity team, industry professionals, athletes, and fellow students for the duration of your role.
We are currently recruiting for various volunteer opportunities for 2025-2026 .
Register your interest .
We are offering the following opportunities this year.
Gain applied experience in performance sport, helping to deliver support services to our Sports Scholars and Performance and Development teams.
To be considered for the above roles you will need to be studying on a relevant undergraduate or postgraduate degree programme ( Sport and Exercise Science , Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation , Psychology , etc) and have either completed or be in the process of completing a related study module.
Gain applied experience in sports development and participation, helping deliver our UoD Active programme including Team Derby Football Leagues , Just Play , Halls Spor t competitions and Get Active Events .
To be considered for a sports activator role, you will need some experience in organising or leading sports activities for people of different ability levels, backgrounds and motivations.
Referees will ideally have a relevant qualification (e.g.
FA Referee - Level 7) but we will also consider applications from individuals who are able to demonstrate competency in officiating the adult game.
If you want to try volunteering but can't commit, we are always looking for keen individuals to support our Performance and Participation programmes on a one-off or occasional basis, helping us to showcase and deliver sport and activity, here at Derby.
We have ad-hoc opportunities throughout the year in a range of areas including Halls Sports competitions, refereeing/officiating, Just Play sport, photography, media/marketing, and at our Get Active events.
Please register your interest with us to receive details of any upcoming volunteer vacancies.
As a football activator I've developed my leadership and communication skills, delivering weekly Just Play sessions to a large group.
It's been great to have a positive impact helping other students get the most out of being active.
Our programme offers great benefits, including:
If you would like to be considered for one of our roles, please register your interest on our form .
We will then email you with details of any current vacancies and information on how to apply.
To keep up to date and to follow our students' journey through their roles follow @teamderby on Instagram and X (formerly Twitter) .
The most hands-on year of my 4-year experience.
Fantastic to learn new approaches to programming and improve my self-confidence and adaptability

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/our-sports-staff-practitioners:
Our passionate and hardworking team support and develop student athletes enabling them to reach their sporting and academic goals.
The University is an accredited Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme (TASS) site and our practitioners work with national and international level athletes.
Our staff have significant experience in performance sport – either as an athlete, coach, or practitioner - so our athletes can be assured of top quality expertise to support them in the next steps of their sporting journey.
Jordan has worked in performance sport within a university environment for over 8 years.
Jordan has worked with athletes and teams across the performance spectrum, including Olympic medalists and professional and international teams.
Over the course of Callum's career, he has coached athletes across the entire performance spectrum, including athletes on National Governing Bodies pathways and high-achieving student scholars.
Callum is passionate about athlete development and supports our scholars with their individual programmes.
Dr Phil Clarke oversees the sports psychology provision at Team Derby.
Phil has worked within several elite sporting environments, supporting elite and professional athletes.
He is also the Sport Psychology Lead for the Derbyshire Institute of Sport.
Jo is the lead physiotherapist and joined the University of Derby programme in 2018.
She provides individual support to our performance sport, TASS and sport scholarship athletes.
Jo has previously worked with Olympic Gold medallists and world champion athletes.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/our-clean-sport-commitment:
The University of Derby adopts the UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) and World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) position that cheating, including doping, in sport is fundamentally contrary to the spirit of sport, undermining the otherwise positive impact of sport on society.
To this end the University of Derby commits to support Clean Sport in the UK in the following ways:
The University of Derby Sports Scholarship and Performance Sport programme is integral to sport in the UK by providing a high performance student athlete programme that competes in the British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) programme and is committed to a clean sport environment.
You can follow UKAD on Twitter @ukantidoping

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/building-future-focused-skills-performance-analysis-internship:
Tiana Chapman, MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science student has undertaken a Performance Analysis internship to help develop essentials skills and knowledge to build a strong platform for his future career.
In my internship role, I was responsible for organising and managing the Performance Analysis undergraduate students, as well as supporting Team Derby with the performance analysis equipment throughout the BUCS season, ensuring everything ran smoothly.
I also worked closely with coaches to understand what they wanted to achieve from the analysis and kept them up to date on how the undergraduate students were doing to see if anything can be improved.
The performance analysis offer at Team Derby provides the students, coaches and athletes with the ability to watch their game footage and receive certain game statistics, depending on the sport.
With this I have helped set-up with the Hudl Flex cameras and become more familiar with the use of Hudl Focus cameras.
Alongside helping camera set-up, I have also assisted the students and created sport specific code windows and output windows for statistics for the students to use within their analysis.
The students I have supported are involved in a variety of sports at the University which has given me an insight into multiple different disciplines when creating code windows and facilitating their analysis.
My role within Team Derby has greatly enhanced my studies, providing me with opportunities to put into practice what I have been learning in my degree.
I have been able to use scripting when creating code windows and output windows to create more detailed analysis for the coaches.
The opportunity for me to help the undergraduate students has also allowed me to build on my previous knowledge, as I was given challenges that I did not know how to solve at first but now have the knowledge to be successful.
The internship will also be used as part of my independent study for my masters, looking into coach’s perceptions of performance analysis.
This opportunity to explore coach’s thoughts and feelings of performance analysis will help me in the future as I will have in-depth knowledge of different sports and how coaches interact with performance analysis, helping me to become the best analyst I can be.
In the future I aim to work within an analysis role which this internship will hugely contribute to.
In my internship role, I have been able to develop career-specific skills such as improve my use of Hudl coding and scripting, which has allowed me to create more efficient coding and scripting windows – a key aspect in my future career.
Another opportunity this internship has provided me with is the chance to analyse and work with a variety of sports.
Coming to the end of this internship I have had the chance to create coding windows and output windows for a multitude of sports from football and rugby to volleyball and basketball.
Before this internship I had not had much experience with many sports other than football, but this internship has opened more potential job opportunities for me as I have expanded my knowledge and now have the skills and experience to work with a broader range of sports.
Being part of the performance sport environment at the University has been amazing.
It has provided me with a sense of accomplishment even though I have played a very small part in the overall success that Team Derby has seen this year.
Within performance sport, most of the staff and students are very open to the idea of analysis and can see the benefit of having access to equipment such as Hudl.
I have been able to get more out of my internship by interacting with both coaches and athletes which has given me an insight into performance sport from both perspectives, making this internship incredibly impactful.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/gaining-skills-through-team-derby-internship:
Pursuing his interest in Strength and Conditioning, and Nutrition, Rohan Sood, MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science student carried out an internship in this area.
As an intern with Team Derby, I work in both Strength & Conditioning (S&C) and Nutrition, supporting the physical preparation and dietary strategies of the university athletes.
My role involves designing and implementing tailored S&C programmes to improve performance, prevent injuries and ensure athletes peak at the right times in their competitive seasons.
I also provide nutritional guidance to enhance recovery, fuel performance and optimise body composition based on the specific demands of each sport.
I work with multiple performance teams, ensuring their training and nutrition align with their sport-specific needs.
A typical day includes coaching gym-based sessions, conducting athlete assessments, advising on nutrition strategies (such as fuelling for training, hydration, or meal planning), and collaborating with coaches and support staff to refine performance strategies.
My work bridges the gap between training and nutrition, ensuring athletes adopt a holistic approach to their development.
My MSc in Applied Sport Science includes Sports Training Principles and Strength and Conditioning Science, both of which directly align with my Team Derby internship.
This experience has allowed me to apply theoretical concepts in a real-world setting, significantly enhancing my understanding.
A key advantage of my internship is access to athletes for research.
Whether exploring training interventions, recovery strategies or performance assessments, I can apply my studies in real-world contexts, bridging the gap between academia and applied sport science.
Overall, this internship has deepened my practical knowledge, providing hands-on experience in programme implementation, athlete monitoring and data analysis - critical skills for both my academic and professional development.
This internship has been instrumental in linking theoretical knowledge to real-world application.
In my S&C role, I’ve refined my coaching techniques, improved my ability to adapt training sessions based on athlete feedback and developed a better understanding of long-term athletic development.
On the nutrition side, I’ve gained experience in educating athletes about fuelling strategies, hydration and recovery nutrition, tailoring advice to individual needs rather than applying generic recommendations.
I’ve also learned how to communicate complex nutritional concepts in a way that resonates with athletes, ensuring they can implement practical dietary changes.
Beyond technical skills, I’ve developed greater confidence in leading sessions, collaborating with multidisciplinary teams and managing the varied needs of athletes across different sports.
These are essential attributes for any applied practitioner looking to work in high-performance sport.
This internship has solidified my ambition to work in elite sport, either in a dual role as an S&C coach with a nutrition specialism or within a multidisciplinary performance team.
The experience has provided me with a clearer understanding of the skills required in professional settings and has helped me build a strong foundation for my future career.
By working with athletes across multiple sports, I’ve developed a more versatile coaching and nutritional support approach, making me well-equipped to adapt to different environments.
Additionally, the exposure to interdisciplinary collaboration has been invaluable as it has taught me how to integrate S&C and nutrition with other performance elements such as physiotherapy and sports psychology.
This role has also expanded my professional network, allowing me to learn from experienced practitioners and gain insights into different career pathways within sports science and performance coaching.
The most important thing I’ve learned is the value of individualisation—whether in training or nutrition, no two athletes are the same.
While scientific principles provide the foundation, the ability to adapt programmes and nutritional advice to the specific needs, preferences and constraints of an athlete is what makes an applied practitioner truly effective.
I’ve also realised the importance of communication.
Translating technical knowledge into actionable, easy-to-understand guidance is a skill that has made a real impact on athlete engagement and adherence to both training and nutrition plans.
Additionally, I’ve learned how to balance long-term athletic development with short-term performance goals.
Managing workloads, recovery strategies and nutritional interventions based on competition schedules has been a crucial takeaway from this experience.
Being part of Team Derby’s performance sport environment is incredibly rewarding.
The athletes are highly motivated which creates an exciting and fast-paced setting where everyone is striving to improve.
One of the standout aspects is the interdisciplinary approach—working alongside coaches, physiotherapists and sports scientists has provided a holistic view of athlete development.
It’s a great learning environment as there is constant collaboration and knowledge exchange among staff and interns.
There’s also a strong emphasis on continuous development, with opportunities to attend workshops, gain hands-on experience and refine coaching methods.
It’s a dynamic environment that challenges you to be proactive, adaptable and always looking for ways to enhance athlete performance.
My biggest piece of advice is to be proactive and take ownership of your learning.
The more you put into this internship, the more you’ll gain from it.
Seek feedback from coaches, ask questions and take every opportunity to lead sessions and interact with athletes.
Developing strong communication skills is also key.
Whether you’re coaching in the gym or providing nutrition advice, being able to engage and educate athletes effectively will make a big difference in how well they respond to your guidance.
Additionally, be adaptable and open to learning from different disciplines.
Whether it’s understanding how physiotherapy integrates with S&C or how nutrition influences performance, taking a broad perspective will make you a more well-rounded practitioner.
Lastly, make connections and learn from those around you.
The relationships you build during this internship could be valuable for future job opportunities, mentorship and ongoing professional development.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/sports-psychology-internship-transforms-student-experience:
In my role as a Psychology Intern, I had the opportunity to work with the men’s and women’s volleyball teams, as well as the men’s basketball team.
In addition to working with the Team Derby performance teams, I led the creation of content for sport scholars to inform them of psychological techniques they can implement to enhance their performance and wellbeing.
I can attribute a big part of my success in my MSc study to the internship with Team Derby.
Spending time in an applied setting led to useful contributions in class and likewise, putting my classroom learnings into practice in the field has been truly valuable and led to my practitioner development, which is a key component of the MSc.
The chance to see athletes in a natural setting and work with them has allowed me to see how the theoretical models I’m learning about are manifesting themselves.
This hands-on experience has enabled me to bridge the gap between practical knowledge and academia.
This internship has been vital in putting my theoretical knowledge into practice.
The opportunity to work within a larger team has strengthened my organisation and communication skills, as well as learning the value of mentorship.
Having mentors to assist me in my development has been instrumental and I’ve learned that seeking out this kind of development is essential to my growth as an applied practitioner.
Working with the athletes themselves has also been massively influential in my development.
As a psychologist the skills of empathy, listening, and interaction with your clients are so important to your success as a practitioner.
Being in that team environment where I’m constantly interacting and extracting information from the field has allowed me to develop my social skills with clients, as well as critically thinking about the observations that have been uncovered.
The internship has strengthened my desire to work in a high-performance setting as well as developing my philosophy when it comes to approaching the type of practitioner I want to be.
Ultimately, I want to work within a setting where I’m contributing to the success of those I’m working with.
For example, being so intrinsically involved with the men’s volleyball team this season supported my passion for performance as they went to the cup final.
This experience is a great example of why I’m going into sport psychology, as the players vocalised the value of psychological support in enabling them to reach their goals for the season.
Learning my preferred way of operating as I strive to become a sport psychologist has been invaluable during my internship because it has allowed me to find methods that truly work for me.
Through informal chats, I've discovered how effective open, casual conversations can be in building trust and fostering honest communication with athletes and team members.
Maintaining consistent communication with other members of the team has also taught me the importance of collaboration and teamwork, allowing me to ensure everyone is aligned and contributing their expertise.
Altogether, my approach strikes a balance between structure and adaptability, helping me connect with others while staying focused on delivering meaningful support.
I have loved being a part of the performance sport environment.
The environment at Derby is one where no matter who you are, everyone is contributing to the success of the University.
This fosters a culture of collaboration, excitement and inclusion.
It’s been a pleasure to be a part of an environment where high performance is enabled through the social collaboration of motivated individuals – in both the athletes and the staff.
Everyone is committed to the development of their peers and that’s something I really value.
My biggest piece of advice would be to be proactive.
Being proactive is crucial for students considering an internship as it lays the foundation for a successful and enriching experience.
You get as much out of an internship as you put into it and the environment is one where everybody is looking to aid your development.
Students should take advantage of this and utilise the expertise of mentors and peers, as well as the opportunities to experience the practices of a sport psychologist.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/get-active-sport:
We offer a range of sports and activities that are available to students and staff members throughout the year.
Our activities app is free and bespoke to UoD staff and students.
It is a quick and easy way to book a variety of sports and activities including halls sport, football leagues, social sports and events.
Find all our activities in one place.
To sign up, simply:
If gym and fitness are your preferred choice, the Sports Centre offers a variety of memberships, facilities and a weekly programme of fitness classes suitable for all levels.
Our social sport programme offers you the chance to get active on a weekly basis without any commitment.
Our halls of residence sports competitions provide students living in halls the opportunity to get active, meet friends and compete for points.
Our football league provides a termly fixture program for students wishing to play competitive five or six a side during term-time.
Throughout the academic year we host several key Get Active Events including Santa Run, This Derby Girl Can and the BRIT Challenge.
Inclusive sport opportunities available with local clubs and facility providers to help you find activities you can enjoy.
To stay up to date follow us on Instagram and Twitter @teamderby or on Facebook @teamderbysport
For more information or if you have any questions please email us teamderby@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/performance-sport/cycling/rhiannas-journey-to-gb-cycling-team:
From Sprints to the Saddle: How a passion for sport, a bold move to Derby University, and the right support for Rhianna Parris-Smith helped her shift gears into elite track cycling.
My sporting journey began with athletics, where I focused on sprint events and occasionally helped out in field events to make up the numbers.
I was always active, taking part in multiple sports throughout my childhood and school years.
When it was time to choose a college, I attended an open day at Oaklands College, known for its wide range of sporting academies.
I knew my athletics career was nearing its end due to recurring knee issues, however after always having an interest in cycling, I explored the cycling academy and decided to give the trial day a go, even though I had minimal knowledge of the sport.
It's safe to say I was the worst one there with hardly any knowledge of the sport, but the head coach, Jez, saw potential in me despite my inexperience, and I began my journey into track cycling while also building up countless miles and endurance on the road.
Everyone at Team Derby was so accommodating, and everything was so accessible - the gym, accommodation, coaching, and the velodrome were all within reach.
It made balancing training and study so much easier.
After college, I worked a few jobs and didn’t initially plan to go to university.
But encouragement from friends and family made me reconsider, especially with Derby offering the unique combination of a great academic experience and proximity to the velodrome.
I enrolled at the University of Derby and moved to the city, excited to continue my development in track cycling whilst gaining a degree.
Living in on-site accommodation and training at nearby facilities made the transition smooth, plus I was fortunate to receive a scholarship in my first year which made the transition even easier.
In October 2021, I entered the ' From Home 2 The Games' talent transfer scheme.
I was successful in completing all of the phases and was then selected to join the Great Britain Cycling Team in 2022.
To make the most of the opportunity, familiarise myself with a new environment and be successful, I decided to take a year out from my studies.
The University, Team Derby, and my tutors were fully supportive of this decision and my new venture, always keeping in contact throughout my time away from studies and ultimately helping to plan my eventual return.
After a successful year on the national squad, I returned to Derby to complete my final year on a part-time basis.
This flexible approach allows me to continue training at a high level while working toward my degree.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/performance-sport/mens-football/student-refereeing:
Officiating university football isn’t just about making calls from the sidelines, it’s a chance for students to grow personally and professionally.
From managing fast-paced British Universities and College Sports (BUCS) fixtures to taking charge of high-level academy games, students at the University of Derby are developing key skills such as decision-making, teamwork, communication, and resilience.
Whether they're studying sports-related degrees or pursuing completely different academic paths, our student referees are discovering new perspectives on the game they love, all while earning money, staying active, and opening doors to future opportunities in sport.
"I have always been a huge fan of sport, particularly football.
When I stopped playing in a team, I realised going into refereeing or football media is the next big thing.
The opportunities at university allow me to do both!"
Thomas balances his passion for football with his journalism degree and finds refereeing a natural extension of both interests.
"The experience officiating in BUCS games has been brilliant for my confidence and to keep fit.
It's also ideal that I can fit the time in around my studies and other social events—it even allows me to earn money doing something I love."
Through refereeing, Thomas has developed vital soft skills:
"You have to be assertive and confident when officiating, and Derby has helped me grow in that aspect."
By combining his journalism background with his officiating, Thomas has had opportunities to learn from the best:
"I sat down with former Premier League referees Mike Dean and Jon Moss last year and discussed some of their greatest memories at the top of the game."
"I would greatly advise refereeing to anyone who enjoys football.
It gives you a different angle of the game and is a fantastic way to learn and earn within sport."
Through officiating in both BUCS games and external leagues, Thomas has sharpened his decision-making skills and positioning:
"Being a BUCS linesman has allowed me to be more confident in the decisions I give and has helped my positioning—whether that’s spotting fouls or staying level with the last defender."
"My leadership experience has allowed me to communicate with the other referees effectively, so that everything moves along much smoother and there are fewer time delays."
Thanks to his affiliation and external matches, Thomas has taken on exciting challenges:
"The skills and experiences I’ve gained will definitely help in my refereeing future and in life.
I’m more confident in my decisions and able to confer with my team to come to the right outcome."
"Keep up the good work and keep offering the BUCS games.
They’re a brilliant opportunity for anyone, as long as they can keep up with the play."

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/performance-sport/badminton/courting-success-in-badminton-and-law:
I can still recall visiting the law department when choosing which university to study at and being met with encouragement and positivity by Joel Klaff , the head of law advising me that I would be the first ever sports scholar the university had accepted to undertake a Law degree.
He advised me, that typically most scholarship athletes preferred to take a sports related subject but not to let that deter me from the challenge.
For those that know me you will know I am not a person to be defeated or shy away from any challenge.
Not even the 50K uphill walk for the Alzheimer Society in January of this year.
I commenced my degree at the University of Derby in 2020, starting my Law LLB degree and my journey as a sports scholar in my sport of badminton.
I swiftly realised that to be successful, I was going to have to be incredibly organised and dedicated in order to fit in all my lectures, studies, badminton training, strength and conditioning session, competitions, BUCS matches and my part time job as a team leader.
I threw myself whole heartedly into university life and found the law departments ongoing support invaluable.
Their ongoing encouragement, availability and positivity spurred me on to realise my full potential.
In 2021, I was diagnosed with dyslexia and with the support of the university I was able to obtain the additional support and adjustments I required to assist me.
I now see my dyslexia as a part of who I am and not a barrier to achieve.
When I arrived, I threw myself into university life and the ongoing support I received was invaluable.
Undertaking an extremely challenging academic course alongside being a sports scholar is not for the faint hearted.
The demand of the course means to achieve I had to prioritise academics over some social life invitations to reduce the pressure of falling behind with exam preparations and the large amount of work to be completed outside of the lectures.
Whilst completing the degree, I competed individually in tournaments and BUCS competitions.
The support I received from Rhondell Stabana, who was the Lifestyle coach, and Keval Patel, who was the psychologist, was invaluable.
James Boxall, was also extremely supportive, he is the University of Derby badminton coach, and has been involved in my badminton journey since the age of 13 - when I was a junior badminton player representing England.
Despite the incredible demands of the studies I thoroughly enjoyed my law course and achieved a First Class honours degree.
At the end of my course, I was awarded the Alpheus John Robotham Award for exceptional contribution to university life.
During my studies for my law degree, I had numerous sporting achievements - including winning the BUCS Nationals women's doubles in 2022 with Abbygael Harris and winning numerous badminton gold competitions in both women's doubles and mixed doubles.
These gold tournaments are the highest level on the English circuit, as a team we also reached the  BUCS Championship team final in 2023.
Following my success and performance, I am proud to continue to be sponsored by Babolat who have supported me for many years.
I commenced a role as a Legal Assistant at a busy office specialising in property, prior to starting my Legal Practice Course/LLM in Law.
To be successful in law, it is vital to gain valuable work experience within the legal profession, so I was thrilled to have this opportunity.
I completed this role for 6 months before obtaining a role as a Paralegal in March in Nottingham where I now work full time dealing with child and family cases, a role which is incredibly demanding and at times very emotive.
The last 10 months have been the most challenging experience of my life.
Studying for my LPC which consists of two days of lectures every weekend, alongside a vast amount of studying and course work which is then cemented by 11 exams in a two-week period in February/March and 3 further exams in June alongside a full-time job has been challenging.
In 2024, I was studying for my 11 law exams at the English Institute of Sport whilst competing in BUCS Nationals in two events.
This was touch both emotionally and physically but winning the women's doubles and having the gold medal put around mine and Sophie Watson's necks - made everything worth it, plus it fired me up to do well in my exam the following day.
En route to the BUCS Championship team final against Loughborough - I received an email advising me I had passed my legal business exam, the team thought I was upset but these were actually tears of joy due to me finding this the most taxing exam.
Sadly, we lost to Loughborough in the final but we gave our all as a team.
I can remember studying for 11 exams whilst competing at BUCS Nationals.
We then won a gold medal making the challenges worth it.
The LPC commitments meant I could not compete as often individually this season, this has been difficult to come to terms with as my personal life has always been so focused on badminton.
As a sports scholar, it has been crucial to maintain my fitness and motivation -  the assistance from Josh Davidson in my Strength and Conditioning sessions has helped to maintain my focus.
The Law Department have never doubted my ability to achieve my LPC, despite the challenges.
In July I discovered I was one of only four students to pass the LPC and I had in fact passed all 14 exams on their first sitting was my proudest day.
My understanding is that only around 35% of people in England pass the LPC nationally.
Those people closest to me, I can only thank wholeheartedly for their support and understanding as only they truly know how incredibly hard the last year has been and what sacrifices have been made.
It shows that you can have big dreams and fulfil them, even when you feel you are climbing the highest mountain without ropes.
The emails of support from Elizabeth Haysom, the head of the LPC course always seem to come at the right time and kept the cohort going.
Having now achieved my gold futures award at the university, the final part of my journey will be completing my dissertation over the next 6 months alongside my role as a Paralegal.
I have also recently secured a solicitors training contract in Birmingham.
My badminton competition journey commenced in June when I made the semi-finals in Warwickshire which I will now seek to build upon.
I am proud to be the secretary of the Derby Powerlifting society, sit as a trustee on the Derby Union Board, proud to have the support of my mentor Head Solicitor Will Morris at Rolls Royce and very thankful for the support of the Aspiring Solicitors Foundation who have supported me for several years, recognising my work alongside my studies.
I am really looking forward to completing the last year of my masters and competing in my first powerlifting competition in December.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/performance-sport/badminton/managing-time-as-a-champion-athlete-and-as-a-student-engineer:
As a student-athlete, Lyddia Cheah Yi Yu had to learn how to balance time so that she could achieve both academically and in her sport.
Discover her journey that began after she was awarded a badminton scholarship at the University.
I was born in Kuala Lumpur Malaysia.
I completed an undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering and now I am studying a postgraduate degree in Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering .
Prior to moving to the UK, I trained at the National Badminton Center in Malaysia and I first represented Malaysia at the age of 13 years old and continued to do so until I was 24 years old.
It was a great honour to represent my country and travel the world doing something I loved to do.
I participated in numerous prestigious international tournaments such as Commonwealth Games, Asia Games, South East Asia (SEA) Game, World Championship, World University Game, etc.
My biggest achievement was winning gold in the Commonwealth Games representing Malaysia.
During my time at the University of Derby, I represented Team Derby in the national league and in the University leagues and tournaments.
During my time at Derby, I won seven British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) medals and four league titles.
I have been through a transformational journey.
I used to be a professional athlete and focussed solely on being the best athlete I could be.
Then as a student-athlete, I had to balance my time to achieve in my sport and academically.
I travelled from a familiar place in Malaysia to live and study in a new country and came from a totally different culture.
At first, it was difficult to be away from my family but with sport, walking into a training environment or a coaching session I was surrounded by like-minded people and I soon felt at home with this group of players.
Lecturers at the University of Derby support students to excel both in sports and academically.
They are always there to help if you experience any difficulty.
All the staff were very accommodating and supportive, allowing me to continue my training, as well as studying full time to become a qualified engineer.
My lecturers were very understanding of my goals - at times, training and competing could be very intense and time-consuming and they provided additional support when appropriate.
The Team Derby staff were extremely supportive, and I was always able to have a chat with them about how I was feeling regardless of how busy they were.
Their advice was always appreciated and being made to feel supported was great.
The scholarship was a great financial help - without it, it would have been difficult to work towards both my goals and study in Derby.
I stayed in Flamstead Court , accommodation mainly available to postgraduate students and for sports scholars.
It was the perfect location for me to get to training just five minutes away at the Sports Centre and close to lectures too.
Furthermore, being a scholar gave me great support in my training - on-court with my coach to improve my game and a gym membership which allowed me to access additional training whenever I needed it.
Physiotherapy support assisted my recovery from injury and ensured I was available as much as possible to compete.
And most importantly as a scholar, Team Derby looked after my wellbeing during my days in the UK and gave me full support if I needed help.
Time management was one of the key elements to this.
Be disciplined.
I always set a routine and short goals for myself.
Don’t leave everything till the last minute, set a priority list, start early and don’t leave everything till the last minute.
Constantly keep track of your progress.
Having completed my Master's at the University of Derby my ambition is to secure a job with a global company based in the UK.
We run a sector-leading performance programme for badminton, basketball, volleyball, football and cycling.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/performance-sport/basketball/inspiring-the-next-generation-of-basketball-players:
Ronald Oberia has made a significant contribution to basketball in Derby and competes for the Derby Trailblazers in the National Basketball League.
I first started playing sports when I was 16.
My skill set was very low, but I possessed athletic attributes that were outstanding for my age so I joined the City of Birmingham Rockets .
Here I blossomed into the player I am currently.
One of my proudest achievements was last season, where I helped my national league team, Team Derby Spartans, get promoted from division 3 to division 2.
I was also very happy the University team was able to secure first place in Division 1A Midlands British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) championships.
I do feel as if I have been on a transformational journey.
Academically, I have stepped up my work rate and decided to achieve higher than just the average grade.
I’ve also put my confident nature to great use in making friends so I can gain knowledge from my peers.
Whether it is the final or a regular game we want to win and prove to others and ourselves that we can be successful.
Whilst the University have been supportive for my athletic progression, they also offer great support on the education side of things.
The University has offered me great support academically and in my chosen sport.
I felt comfortable booking tutorials with my tutors and felt when I was stuck I had different people to contact.
The University also offers a great wellbeing service , which as a student-athlete I think is essential for my overall mental health.
Regarding basketball, Team Derby has supported me to develop as a player.
The benefits of the sports scholarship are absolutely fantastic with things such as: accessing the courts when required for additional practice, gym membership, strength and conditioning sessions, one-to-one review with the Team Derby staff on how things are going, and workshops on life skills.
I have enjoyed being a role model for the local national league side younger players attending camps to help aspire them to one day become a Team Derby player.
Also being a sports scholar brings a sense of respect from others; this is because other students acknowledge the hard work and discipline we must put in to obtain the standards that are expected.
There is also a sense of responsibility that comes with being a scholar, as you are seen as a role model, representing Team Derby.
The scholarship has supported me by reducing my university fees, but also it has given me the opportunity to play at a high level as a Team Derby student.
They have also helped me in contacting my lecturers when I have needed additional support to be able to maintain the balance between my life, sport and academics.
Derby provides an excellent physio service.
The physiotherapist is able to break down injuries and find a solution to keep me on the court as much as possible through the busy seasons.
Additionally, I have attended lifestyle workshops that have supported me to keep improving as a student-athlete.
I particularly enjoyed ‘the importance of sleep’ workshop and they have taught a more positive approach to certain aspects of life.
My course has taught me how important it is to be organised and plan my daily activities in advance as this is essential for me to be able to balance both my sporting and academic commitments.
It has also taught me to take accountability for my actions, so if I am aware I have assignment deadlines and exams coming up I need to prepare well as if I do not I now understand I am preparing to fail.
One way I have been able to manage my time is by making great use of my calendar on my phone.
This enables me to keep track of all my lectures, training, study time and upcoming events.
The reason I find this helpful is because I use my phone a lot so getting notifications allows me to keep track of everything planned.
My main goal career-wise is to be able to play for a professional team in the United Kingdom or Europe.
I also see myself playing internationally; I would love to represent either Nigeria or Great Britain at basketball.
With my education, I would like to graduate from the University with a first-class degree in Civil Engineering .
I am aware that I have to prepare for life after sport and I hope this degree will help me become a civil engineer in the future.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/performance-sport/cycling/cycling-to-success-starting-a-degree-in-the-pandemic:
Cycling scholar, Dan Cooper, explains how the University's sports scholarship scheme helped him continue his journey as an elite athlete whilst supporting his study for a Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation degree.
I am studying an undergraduate degree in Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation .
My sports scholarship is for cycling, my focused discipline is track sprint.
I have been riding a bike ever since I can remember and started competing in local competitions at the age of eight.
When I was 14, I started taking cycling more seriously as I started to see my potential, which then led to me receiving an invitation to join the Great British Cycling Team .
I represented my country as a youth and junior cyclist for the following four years competing at the World Championships and European Championships in 2018 and 2019.
I also became National Junior Sprint Champion in 2019, beating all my competition in straight races.
It was such an amazing experience competing at these events.
When I started at University, I had no idea what to expect due to the constantly changing circumstances with the pandemic, but everything was so well organised and they had adapted everything really well to ensure no one was going to miss out on learning experiences.
Within the first couple of days, there were online MS Teams meetings with the sport scholarship and performance staff where they introduced themselves and informed us all of the opportunities available throughout the year.
This introduction and getting to know the staff made me more excited for the journey ahead.
I felt confident in the support that I had from such a great team.
The Sport Scholarship Scheme was the biggest attraction for me to choose my current course, this is because the University has been awarded the Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme (TASS) dual-career accreditation.
I would highly recommend the University of Derby to other elite athletes.
The University has so much to offer you in supporting you through your sport and studies.
In the past, I have sometimes struggled to get the balance but at Derby, I have been able to fully commit sufficient time to train while ensuring my grades are as good as they can be.
The staff are there to support you at any time you need; whether it’s sport or study-related, they will do whatever they can to help.
The training environment is amazing, I have met new people who do the same sport as me that I did not know before, and it is great working with them to better yourself as an athlete and as a person.
The same goes for the staff; they take their experiences to help drive you to push yourself to become the best version of yourself.
There are many different benefits of being a sport scholar-athlete.
The financial support is a huge help as a student, and there is a 15% reduction on all student halls along with a certain amount of money deducted off tuition fees, depending on what level of scholarship you are granted.
Some of the services offered through the sport scholarship scheme include physiotherapy, gym coaching, wellbeing and psychological support and much more.
All of these services are easily accessed just by sending a message to arrange a time and date.
In the sports centre there is a large gym and a performance suite.
The gym contains a variety of different equipment for everyone’s needs, and the membership is free as a sport scholar-athlete.
As a sports scholar, you also have access to the performance suite.
This gym is full of elite performance equipment, for many sports.
My sporting goals for the future are to compete at the BUCS and to win gold for the University of Derby in track sprinting.
This is a goal I wish to achieve in the next couple of years.
Another sporting goal is to compete in as many elite competitions as I can by getting invited to represent my country again wearing the Union Jack flag on my kit.
My career goal is to complete my course at the University and follow it up with a Master's degree.
Once I have completed university I want to help athletes get back to full fitness after suffering injuries, as quickly as possible while ensuring no lasting effects which will impair their future success.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/get-active-sport/just-play:
Just Play is our social sport programme that provides students and staff with the opportunity to get active in a social and friendly environment without any regular commitment.
Activities take place weekly and are led by a Sports Activator.
The Activator is there to provide guidance and ensure the activities are engaging.
Activities may include:
Sessions are for all abilities.
Activities take place in either the sports hall or the 3G pitches at the Kedleston Road Campus.
Just Play sessions cost £1.70 and paid for on arrival at the sports centre - or you can buy a Just Play term-pass from 1st Sept for just £17 via the University online shop .
The easiest way to guarantee your place is to book sessions on the UoD Active app:
You can also sign up via the Playwaze platform at the bottom of this page.
The social aspect of the Just Play programme is a great way to challenge yourself against new people and it doesn't even feel like you're exercising!
Use the links in the window to book activities via the Playwaze platform.
This content is best displayed in light mode.
Your browser does not support iframes.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/get-active-sport/derby-football-league:
Our league competition runs between September and May on Friday evenings from 4pm.
Team entries for our Autumn league open in early September, and in January for the Spring competition.
Anyone can play and if you are an individual player (not yet part of a team) we can help you join one.
Enter your team
Once you have entered your team, the easiest way to keep up to date with upcoming fixtures, results and the league table, is via the UoD Active app.
For more information or if you have any questions, email Kate Nelson K.Nelson@derby.ac.uk
Follow us on Instagram @teamderby or on Facebook @teamderbysport .
We’ve put together the following questions and answers to provide everything you need to know about our Football League and how you can take part.
Team entries for our Autumn 2025-26 league will open at the end of August 2025 and entries for our Spring Term 2056-26 competition will open in January 2026.
Matches normally start the last week of September or the first week in October.
Matches will start in February for the Spring League.
Teams will need to pay the entry fee in full in order to book a place in the league.
Please enter via the University Online Store.
It's first come first served, with 20 team places available in the Autumn term league and 24 places in the Spring term league.
For a whole term's worth of football, it's less than £2 per head per game!
However, we require one person (e.g.
team captain) to pay for the whole team entry in advance.
The Early Bird entry fee for the first four teams to sign up is £126 per team for one term .
The standard entry fee thereafter is £146 per team for one term.
The league is open to any University of Derby student.
Teams require a minimum of six players (max of ten players) per team with a named captain/vice-captain and an original team name.
If you are an individual player (and not yet part of a team) we will help you join up with a team if there are places available.
No more than two players currently representing the University (at 1st, 2nd, 3rd, or 4th team level) in BUCS Football competition 2025-26 can be included in your team.
The league will run on Fridays between 4pm and 7pm for 10-11 weeks (Sept to Dec and Feb to May).
Kick-off times vary to space out the arrival and departure times of teams.
Teams will therefore need to be flexible and able to play fixtures anytime between 4pm - 7pm.
League matches are played at the University Sports Centre's Upper 3G pitch.
The sports centre is located at our Kedleston Road campus.
There will be two leagues of 10 teams and they will be played in a round-robin format over nine weeks, followed by play-off round between the leagues and league final.
Fixtures will be played on a quarter of a full-sized pitch with one goalkeeper and five outfield players using standard FA six-a-side rules with two 20-minute halves.
There's no limit to the number of substitutions you make during a match - so all of your 10 team players can get to play.
(We have a small number of bibs that teams can borrow for matches if needed)
As a team, you will benefit from weekly, officiated matches at our Kedleston Road campus.
The league is a great way to stay active while you're at university.
There will be a trophy for the winning team in each of the autumn and spring league competitions, plus winner and runner-up medals for the finalists.
Regular photos will be taken and action shots and shared on social media, as well as formal team photos taken.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/sport/get-active-sport/get-active-events:
Throughout the academic year we host various Get Active events to foster community and wellbeing, including the Santa Walk and Run and Spirit in Sport.
Throughout the year we run events that students and staff can get involved in.
They are social and informal, and a great way to meet - and make - new friends, have fun and get active.
Join the Get Active Events community on our UoD Active app to be first to sign up and to receive the latest event updates.
To sign up simply:
Our fun community run and walk takes place in December.
It's a great opportunity to take a break from work and study and enjoy some festive cheer running or walking round the picturesque Markeaton Park with friends and colleagues.
This Derby Girl Can celebrates active women across our university community.
TDGC encourages and supports females students and staff (and those identifying as female) to be active in a welcoming environment and just "do their thing" no matter how they look or good they are.
In support of our "This Derby Girl Can" campaign, we've reached out to female students and staff, just like you, to get their story on how they get active in a way that works for them.
Have a look and take some inspiration from our amazing community.
By tradition a football event in February or May that brings together people of different faiths and beliefs to have fun playing the 'beautiful game'.
SIS is about friendship, celebrating diversity and bringing the Uni community together.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/union-of-students/your-union-of-students.php:
Union of Students - University of Derby.
Run by you
For you.
500+ student reps.
Elected by you.
Representing you.
30+ sports, 30+ societies.
The biggest events.
Student-led.
Challenging.
Supportive.
Transformative.
Empowering.
The home of Blends, Campus Kitchen, Basecamp, Advice service, Activities.
Learn new skills.
Make new friends.
Create new memories.
Get involved.
Union of Students.
Back to Union of Students

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/themes/explore:
Our research tackles local and global challenges head-on, driving impactful solutions across health, business, education, the environment, arts and culture, and beyond.
Centred around six interdisciplinary themes, our work brings together expertise from across our academic colleges, combining insights and innovations to make a real-world impact.
From pioneering health initiatives to advancing sustainable practices and creative industries, our research is woven into the fabric of our region and influences communities worldwide.
Discover how we're pushing boundaries, sparking ideas, and building a better future.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/themes/biomedical-clinical-sciences:
Biomedical and Clinical Science is one of our six research themes.
Our research in this area provides solutions to real-world health problems using a personalised and translational approach.
Providing solutions to real-world health problems remains critical for our society.
Our vision is to deliver world-class biomedical and clinical research that promotes and supports healthier living, ageing and wellbeing while providing solutions to chronic conditions and global health challenges such as cancer, diabetes and dementia.
This is alongside improving rehabilitation and recovery for patients.
We are establishing the best interdisciplinary teams that will enable us to work across research fields to accelerate our innovative approach, which translates to real-world impact.
Our person-centred approach works holistically across biomedical scientists, psychologists and healthcare practitioners to understand the individual and their health conditions.
Personalised medicine represents one of the most innovative new concepts in healthcare.
It holds real promise for more effective early diagnosis, more effective treatments for patients and improved medical services to all.
Our research is not just about making discoveries, it is about how we use those discoveries to benefit our communities and our industries.
Within biomedical and clinical science, our research into areas such as cancer and Covid-19 led to discoveries that support people in their health and in managing their conditions.
The Cancer and Metabolic Disorders Research Centre encompasses academics from across the university providing a multi-disciplinary approach to a highly molecular understanding of cancer, infection and...
The Healthy Ageing and Mental Wellbeing Research Centre is a community of researchers who conduct research ranging from lab-based biomedical research to community-based behavioural and experiential re...
The Clinical Exercise and Rehabilitation Research Centre drives and delivers exceptional research within fields such as respiratory conditions, diabetes, health interventions, sport performance to nam...
Myra Conway is a Professor of Biomedical Science and is the Theme Lead for Biomedical and Clinical Science.
In this role, she is responsible for leading and developing research centres across the College of Science and Engineering and the College of Health, Psychology and Social Care.
We are leading international research to better understand the long-term implications of Covid-19.
Current data highlights that 2.2 million people in the UK and 144 million people worldwide are suffering from long-term debilitating symptoms.
Our research outlines important clinical, physical, psychological and biochemical markers alongside the lived experience of patients and their families.
Human papillomavirus, more commonly referred to as HPV, is known to cause cancers of the genital tract, predominantly cervical cancer.
HPV is also associated with a subset of head and neck cancers in the ‘oropharynx’ (part of the throat at the back of the mouth).
Our team is investigating healthy tonsil tissues for markers of HPV infections that could be indicators of HPV-mediated cancer.
Chronic pain impacts over 10 million people in the UK alone, making it highly important that we find a way to manage the illness more effectively.
We are conducting research that focuses on behavioural and psychological aspects of pain management in painful chronic illnesses such as haemophilia, sickle cell disease and spinal pain.
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new Bioscience Superlab.
Discover our innovation and research across our five other academic themes.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/themes/business-economic-social-policy:
Business, Economic and Social Policy is one of our six research themes.
Our research in this area aims to make a real difference to business, economy and society regionally, nationally and internationally.
We will advance and share knowledge in all its forms and impact on public policy.
In a world of scarce and diminishing resources, we all need to help find the path to a sustainable future – to better businesses, economies and societies.
For businesses, this could mean being efficient, profitable and supporting sustainable growth, in a way that minimises resource depletion and pollution, while being responsive and resilient to turbulences in the environment.
For policy-makers, this means supporting ethical, evidence-based policymaking that improves income, access to justice and equal opportunities and the well-being of all members of society.
It is shaping a stronger and safer society for all.
Our research is helping to bring about this future.
It is supporting economic vibrancy and resilience, social justice and sustainable development – at regional, national and international levels.
We focus on supporting both large businesses as well as the field of entrepreneurship, spin-outs, start-ups and SMEs, and influencing the government agenda on enterprises.
We also focus on improving social cohesion, recovery, and regeneration.
Our research has a real-world focus with our aim to make a real difference to business, economy and society regionally, nationally and internationally.
All our innovative research is founded on ethical principles and a commitment to advancing and sharing knowledge and impact on public policy.
We approach business, economic and social policy with an open mind and in an independent way, alongside being conscious of but not constrained by history.
Our commitment to identifying the underlying research questions and our unprecedented breadth and depth of expertise means we bring together research from different fields to develop the best, innovative and evidence-based solutions.
Research into business, economic and social policy spans a wide range of areas and can impact numerous stakeholder groups.
Explore some of our research centres and case studies below to see how our existing research is making a change in the real world.
The Centre for Applied Social Sciences, Policy, Practice and Research (CASSPPR) researches real-world issues to work towards the improvement of society by informing policy, shaping practice, and leadi...
The Centre for Business Improvement supports organisations in their goal to improve and maintain strong business performance through applied multi-disciplinary research.
The Centre for Justice, Law and Society aims to produce innovative, interdisciplinary legal scholarship and influence both local and global policy.
The Centre for Supply Chain Improvement is a centre of excellence for operations and supply chain management in advanced research and industry partnerships.
The University of Derby Regional Economic Observatory’s mission is to make a real difference to the regions businesses, people, and the communities they live in.
We want to hear your voice so th...
Professor Hassan Yazdifar is the Head of Research and Innovation at the College of Business, Law, and Social Sciences.
Hassan also has cross-university responsibility for the development, direction and performance of the academic theme of Business, Economic and Social Policy.
With the low-carbon economy critical to UK business growth, researchers from the Derby Business School at the University of Derby have pioneered effective strategies to support more firms to incorporate green practices into their operations.
Innovative research into green-lean and lean logistics is enabling transport, manufacturing and emergency medical service industries worldwide to combine improvements in productivity with a stronger environmental performance.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/themes/creative-cultural-industries:
Our research in this area is helping to build a socially-responsive and engaged creative and cultural sector — locally, nationally, and globally.
The research around creative and cultural industries goes beyond what would normally be considered as the arts and humanities.
Our research brings to life in visual ways key topics and concepts that spark conversations and highlight their significance within society.
It is about enriching lives and communities.
We develop ways for partners to commercialise ideas and enable the making and sharing of research in a cultural, dynamic and impactful way.
We are working to build a creatively and culturally connected Derby, which has regional, national and international relevance and significance.
Covering a breadth of expertise from arts to media, to journalism and the humanities, and design and entrepreneurship, we are making significant contributions to research, cultural policy, agenda and practice.
Our trans-, inter-, and multi-disciplinary research community aims to build a socially responsive and engaged creative and cultural sector.
Our research spans many subjects and themes of inquiry, such as the creative approaches to climate change, ethics, animal studies, the making and dissemination of contemporary and historic artefacts, and the curation of historic collections.
We are offering new approaches and inspiring and innovative ideas to these knowledges to inform contemporary discourses and debates.
As a research team, we have extensive expertise in a range of areas, and we often work with colleagues and partners in areas such as technology, medicine, and the natural sciences to enhance our research community and research solutions.
As this wider community, we creatively engage with local and national civic agendas and deliver impact and knowledge exchange through partnerships and networks.
Discover more about our research through our Creative and Cultural Industries Research Centre.
Ang Bartram is a Professor of Contemporary Art and Co-Lead for the Creative and Cultural Industries Academic Theme.
Ang also Co-leads the Creative and Cultural Industries Research Centre.
John Steel is a Research Professor in Journalism and Co-Lead for the Creative and Cultural Industries Academic Theme.
John also Co-leads the Creative and Cultural Industries Research Centre.
The project investigates press regulation and ethics in twelve European countries and the UK in order to examine the role and function of journalism ethics in formulations of press freedom.
The project will provide evidence-based recommendations for the development of press regulation in the UK.
Making a significant and cultural impact on the city of Derby, FORMAT has grown to become the UK’s leading international photography festival.
Organised as a collaboration with QUAD arts and media centre and drawing from the research and curation expertise of the University of Derby, it engages audiences worldwide with the power of the photographic image in all its forms.
At a time where our public parks and urban trees are under threat, research from the University of Derby is playing a pivotal role in efforts to safeguard, restore and manage these invaluable features of our cities and towns for the benefit and wellbeing of future generations.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/themes/data-science:
Data Science is one of our six research themes.
Our research in this area aims to support external organisations to understand, visualise and enhance their data-driven decision-making, which will deliver tangible benefits to partners, society and the economy.
Almost every industry and organisation has now embraced digitalisation to improve products and services, increase efficiency and productivity or reach new audiences.
Through digitalisation, organisations are producing vast amounts of data that is often not fully exploited.
Data science improves the collection and curation of data, uses datasets and also combines datasets from different sources to enable companies and organisations to better understand their data and derive valuable insights for better and smarter data-driven decisions.
Data science can support safer, more secure systems and data infrastructure as well as extracting insights to enable intelligent innovation.
Data science is now widely adopted and plays a central role in our societies and economies.
It is used to combat crime, for better medical diagnostics and zero-defect manufacturing.
Central to the data science research is the ethos to work with companies and organisations to help them make better use of the massive volumes of raw information they gather and improve their competitiveness.
We develop collaborations with academics in a range of other discipline areas to extend the scale and impact of innovation and data-driven decision-making.
This approach, that is partner and problem-led, will deliver tangible benefits to partners, society and the economy making us the partner of choice for data science solutions.
While continuing to develop our fundamental data science research in designing new algorithms, models and platforms, we use our unique setting and expertise to contribute to some core application domains.
Data science research and development at the University of Derby focuses on three main clusters;
Data science touches a range of organisations and sectors.
Find out how our research is helping to improve efficiencies, decision-making and profits for our partners.
Discover more about our research through our Data Science Research Centre.
Professor Farid Meziane is the Head of the Data Science Research Centre at the University of Derby and the Chair of the College of Science and Engineering Research Committee.
Ground-breaking data science research at the University of Derby is delivering both technical and economic benefits for major organisations such as CERN.
We are transforming the speed and efficiency of data analytics on huge scales.
We are giving solutions that help our partners gain the competitive edge.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/themes/zero-carbon:
Zero carbon is one of our six research themes.
Our research in this area has both a strategic purpose - informing international, national, and regional policy - and a tactical one: influencing business support projects as well as urban and environmental sustainability initiatives.
Reducing carbon emissions matters for everyone in today’s global society.
The evidence is now overwhelming that climate change is already happening and will get worse in the next few decades.
Scientists and policymakers recognise that there is an urgent need to reduce CO2 equivalent emissions to net-zero, to limit the harmful effects of the rise in global temperatures.
An increasing number of national and local strategies support the adoption of Low Carbon innovation and societal transformation which will also create new economic and industrial opportunities.
However, we need to go further with the aim of developing new technologies and focusing on solutions in response to the climate crisis.
While we are all stakeholders in a zero-carbon future, we recognise that our expertise in science, technology and engineering today will be central to developing new and adapted technologies tomorrow.
We aim to be a force for positive impact, proactive with the transition to a zero-carbon world and we will inform regional, national and international policy.
Our approach into zero-carbon research is split into three areas: manufacturing, business and energy; transport and smart cities; and nature-based solutions.
By drawing on our own expertise, experience and business networks within these three areas, we are helping organisations adopt new processes, products and systems to grow innovation and unlock new business opportunities.
By considering a nature-based solution alongside the other areas, we take into account the challenges the environment and society might have in adapting new technologies.
We believe the environment and wider society are central to the solutions, not just passive recipients of the benefits.
Our approach also means we can develop new ways of removing carbon from the atmosphere and putting it back into the ground.
The Zero Carbon Manufacturing, Business and Energy Research Centre carries out world leading research to provide local, national, and international impact in the fields of manufacturing processes, sup...
The focus of our Transport, Smart Cities and Built Environments Research Centre is to approach the new future city in a 'state of the art' way.
The current environmental crisis means that there is an urgent need to balance protection of biodiversity, reduction of anthropogenic impact, and the maintaining of resource provisioning for human hea...
Christopher Sansom is a Professor of Concentrating Solar Power and leads the Zero Carbon Theme at the University of Derby.
After his PhD, he worked in research labs for Plessey, GEC, Marconi, and PerkinElmer, before entering Academia with Cranfield University where he remains a Visiting Professor.
We are passionate about working with businesses interested in developing and investing in green energy and carbon reduction schemes and individuals looking to retrain in the first of alternative energy.
Artistic encounters deliver new perspectives on climate emergency: raising awareness of climate change is essential in helping us to change our ways to support the planet.
Our researchers have translated their research into public events which place engaging with environmental issues at the heart of the conversation.
Working with partners such as Councils, the Institute of Quarrying and the National Stone Centre, our collaborations investigate and realise new solutions as we work towards achieving carbon reduction targets.
Research includes assessing the impact of solar panels on carbon emissions, developing zero-carbon building designs and repurposing batteries from buses into heat sources for housing.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/themes/public-services:
Public Services is one of our six research themes.
Our research in this area brings together the disciplines of education; psychology, wellbeing, and therapeutics; nursing, health, allied health professions and social care; and criminal justice and policing.
Our research on public services matters.
This is because services paid for from the public purse like health care, education, criminal justice and policing, make an important contribution to ensuring people get what they need, and thrive as a consequence.
Our vision is simple.
We want public services to work in ways that help everyone to thrive.
Our three research aims are:
Our research in public services also enriches learning and teaching in our professional programmes, including:
Discover our current research on public services to find out more about how our vision is being applied to real-world change:
The International Centre for Guidance Studies (iCeGS) is an applied research centre specialising in career development and employability.
The Childhood Research Cluster is a cross-disciplinary, inter-professional collaboration between staff at the University who have a research interest in childhood.
The focus of this cluster is to create a respectful space for research, knowledge exchange, teaching and participation in critical and reflexive discussions about race and racial inequalities in educa...
The Inclusion and Special Educational Needs Research Cluster (ISEND) has expertise in removing barriers for those described as having special educational needs and disabilities.
The focus of this cluster is to create a welcoming, inclusive and respectful space in which research-active and research-inspiring individuals can engage in scholarship and knowledge exchange.
Our Technical, Vocational Education and Training Research Cluster (TVET) is a collaborative group of inquiring professionals.
We carry out research studies within the broad fields of professional, con...
Professor Nicholas Blagden is a Professor of Criminological Psychology and Theme Lead in Public Services.
He has worked and researched within the Criminal Justice System and HM Prison and Probation Service for nearly 15 years
As the number of nurses leaving the NHS hits an all-time high, researchers from the University of Derby have received national recognition for their work in increasing the retention rate of newly qualified nurses in the crucial early stages of their careers.
University of Derby research has helped deliver more inclusive and socially just support for children and young people with special educational needs and disability (SEND).

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/innovate-for-rail/ecsl:
Rail engineering and infrastructure consultancy ECSL Ltd , has secured funded technical support and expertise from our Innovate 4 Rail programme.
This is enabling the company to continue a research project, which is advancing the development of Fibre Reinforced Polymer (FRP) footbridges over railways.
The Innovate 4 Rail project offers a range of funded support to Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire SMEs, with the intention of stimulating innovation and driving productivity in the rail sector.
ECSL successfully applied to the programme and has won over 160 hours of University support for its research and innovation project.
The aim of the project is to investigate the potential of producing a novel, fully composite truss bridge made of Fibre Reinforced Polymer (FRP), which could replace the conventional steel and concrete pedestrian bridges used over railways.
ECSL already has interest from clients in the UK and India.
FRP bridges are relatively new and offer several benefits over steel and concrete ones.
They are much lighter but just as strong, providing de-carbonisation benefits during manufacture and delivery.
FRP bridges are also more resistant to corrosion so require less maintenance, which can significantly reduce whole-life costs.
However, developing suitable joining techniques for FRP components remains a challenge, so the latest phase of ECSL’s research will focus on this aspect.
“I feel very fortunate that we’ve been awarded this funded support to progress the development of FRP bridges, which I see as integral to the UK’s de-carbonisation plans.
The University of Derby is providing us with valuable expertise and testing equipment, and they are a crucial partner in this innovation.
As a specialist in historic bridges, I feel like we are very much walking the same path of trial and error and research and development as those engineers who first developed wrought iron bridges.
It is exciting to find out just how far we can push this technology.” — Dr Dave Gent, Head of Bridges and Structures at ECSL.
University researchers are now analysing and testing a range of glass fibre reinforced polymer (GFRP) joints designed for the bridge.
They will carry out several investigations, including stress analysis of the joints using Finite Element Analysis, and experimental testing including failure mode analysis.
They will then analyse the results and write a report with recommendations for ECSL, which should help improve the GFRP joint properties and fabrication technique.
Are you working on an innovation for the rail sector?
You too could be eligible for funded support through the Innovate 4 Rail project.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/productivity-through-innovation/funded-industrial-research-for-smes/soemac:
Our human sciences researchers are working with a company that develops medical devices for sufferers of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disorder (COPD), on a research project to better understand the science behind their product.
SoeMac ® is a CE marked, registered class 1 medical device made by SOE Health.
It uses a patent-protected technology to produce and deliver singlet oxygen energy to a person’s body, when placed next to their bedside every night.
Through case studies, SOE Health has collected anecdotal evidence that clearly demonstrate improved outcomes for people using their device, indicating improved sleep quality, enhanced physical activity and improved mental health and wellbeing.
In order to get the device prescribed on the NHS, the company needs more robust scientific evidence about exactly how their product helps people with respiratory problems, particularly COPD.
To do this, they enlisted the help of researchers from our University, and benefitted from funding provided by the Productivity through Innovation programme .
Dr Mark Faghy from the Human Science Research Centre at the University of Derby is leading the research, supported by a PhD student recruited for the project, Samuel Grimwood .
Mark is an experienced lecturer and researcher, with a PhD in Respiratory Physiology and a keen interest in using non-medicinal interventions to increase the capability of people’s respiratory systems.
Samuel has an MSc Foundations in Clinical Psychology and also has experience of working on research projects focused on patients with respiratory conditions such as asthma and COPD.
Managing Director of SOE Health, Neil Stentiford, explains why they are working with the University on this project:
“The biggest challenge that we had, was turning all the anecdotal evidence that we have that the SoeMac works, to more formal evidence.
And to do that you need to run a study or trial with a respected academic and medic…That was the beauty of meeting Mark and the University of Derby because Mark has done this before and Mark put the project together with us”
Hear the MD of SOE Health and our researchers talking about this project.
View SoeMac Research Study video transcript
The study, which began in October 2019, is focusing on collecting and analysing qualitative and quantitative data from people living with COPD, through a series of randomised community-based trials.
This will determine the physiological and psychological outcomes for patients using singlet oxygen energy.
Using health economic assessment and cost effective analysis, the study will also quantify the broader potential benefits to the health service, since COPD complications cost the NHS an average of £3,726 per episode (Mclean et al 2016 ).
If the findings from the first set of trials are promising, the next steps would be to undertake a second trial with a larger number of patients from various locations around the UK.
It is hoped that the study will provide clinical evidence that can be submitted to the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), with a view to getting the SoeMac device prescribed to many of the 1.5 million COPD sufferers registered with the NHS.
We are still offering part-funded research projects like this to local SMEs, through our Productivity through Innovation programme.
Do you have an idea but need help and funding to get it off the ground?

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/strategies-support-greener-economy:
Securing over £340,000 of European funding for activity between 2016-2022, research has helped businesses supply more low carbon and environmental goods and services to the growing clean growth economy.
The researchers’ drive to foster pro-environmental enterprise has not only improved the productivity, growth, sustainability and financial performance of individual firms, but also persuaded regional policy-makers to reconfigure and strengthen the support offer to SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises).
This work is underpinned by a series of large-scale research programmes within Derby Business School which have, over almost two decades, investigated the effectiveness of enterprise support.
In recent years, the research portfolio has diversified to place a sharper focus on how firms can achieve pro-environmental business improvements.
Further research, commissioned in 2018 by Learndirect for the D2N2 LEP (Local Enterprise Partnership for Derby, Derbyshire, Nottingham and Nottinghamshire), examined the skills needed by the low-carbon and environmental-goods and services sector.
This study identified niches of pro-environmental innovation in every sector which could be transferred into the mainstream, given the right skills and knowledge.
These findings have shaped D2N2 LEP's vision for a "clean industrial revolution" set out in its new Regional Energy Strategy, including ways of linking the strategic priorities to the broader skills agenda to help accelerate the shift to a low-carbon economy.
Among the many positive outcomes for local companies, one of the most significant is the launch of a Low Carbon Business Network.
The network originally received funding from the European Regional Development Fund in 2016 to develop a comprehensive package of bespoke consultancy services, targeted guidance and support for SMEs.
Its extensive activities, all informed by ongoing research findings, have included a Green Growth Acceleration programme, three green business marketplace events, three sustainability summits held in association with the East Midlands Chamber of Commerce, and tailored workshops to SMEs across the region.
Following the launch of the network, the Chamber reported a greater degree of engagement from the business community in pro-environmental themed events, with a 5% rise in the average participation rate.
Eleven SMEs have been directly supported to gain environmental accreditations, making advances which are set to reduce CO 2 emissions by an estimated 5.4 tonnes by the end of 2020.
Funded by the Derby Business School since 2019, the network continues to grow on average by 5% per month and now supports over 130 firms representing diverse sectors from construction to biosciences.
It raises awareness of environmental standards, encourages innovative thinking and brings fresh impetus to the development of sustainable technologies.
There are impressive individual success stories too.
Recon Electrical is moving fast with developments in energy efficiency thanks to support from the Low Carbon Business Network.
The network helped Recon develop partnerships with LED manufacturers to put forward a positive message about improved productivity as well as cost savings to grow their market.
One manufacturing company client said: “We have had the lighting in our factory changed ...
to LEDs with daylight dimming.
This has made a dramatic effect on the feel of the building, the mood of the staff and productivity.
Savings of £2,625 p.a.
mean that the installation cost of £4,113 will be paid back in just 19 months.
Add that to the increased productivity and positive feel on the shop floor it’s a win-win.”
Taking part in the Green Growth Acceleration programme saw another firm, Eco Voltz Ltd, attract increased demand for its electric bikes and accessory ranges accounting for a 15% rise in the turnover from these product ranges.
The sustained impact of the team’s research has also attracted national attention, with interest emerging from a range of other local authorities, local enterprise partnerships and universities keen to undertake similar pro-environmental capacity-building initiatives.
Researchers at the University are currently in dialogue with colleagues at Aston and Brighton universities regarding research funding applications and in further dialogue with the East Midlands Chamber, Sustainability West Midlands, West Yorkshire Combined Authority and Clean Growth UK about sourcing additional funding for regional and national Enterprise Support provision.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/lets-do-business:
University of Derby expertise has helped justify the relevance and impact of financial support for hundreds of start-up and small businesses and identified further areas for enhancing the support offer by combining finance and managerial training as an integrated package.
Research from the University of Derby has enabled the Let’s Do Business Group (LDBG) to strengthen and potentially broaden its work to create jobs and bolster the local economy in the South East and East of England.
Located in a deprived area of Sussex and backed by the European Regional Development Fund, the LDBG provides £1.5m of loans and grants, advice and training support to 465 small and young local businesses each year.
It commissioned the research, led by Professor of Business Economics Marc Cowling, to assess the relevance and usefulness of its current offer so that it could strengthen its business model and reach even more start-up firms and SMEs that are keen to invest in scale-up opportunities.
The research for the LDBG drew upon – and added to – the University of Derby’s wide-ranging expertise in SME and regional finance.
As well as conducting an in-depth evaluation of the Group’s services during 2019-20, the research team established the potential for the design a new local funding escalator which addresses the significant barriers faced by small businesses in raising external capital – such as their lack of a track record, limited marketing support, irregular cash flows and managerial inexperience.
As a result, the LDBG has the potential to differentiate its suite of financial products to create even more highly targeted support, matching the funding offer to assist businesses at the different growth stages in their evolution and lowering the average interest rate on total borrowing.
This is especially useful for the many young and micro businesses that do not have the assets against which to securitise their lending, increasing their ability to finance new projects with positive returns.
The research has also helped the Group to identify the potential to create a more integrated portfolio of services, combining funding support with skills building to help SMEs improve both their financial and managerial capabilities at the same time.
While publicly funded business support typically involves separate finance and training programmes, the research recommended bringing them together because a firm’s managerial weaknesses can affect its ability to make best use of financial investment.
In addition, the LDBG benefited from in-depth insights into the full economic impact of its activities.
The researchers estimated that this amounts to around £16m in additional consumer spending from the extra 1,003 jobs created for local workers.
Thorough economic evaluations of the kind undertaken by the University are rare for publicly supported interventions, particularly at local levels, making it hard to gauge what works.
This evidence will strengthen the ability of LDBG to attract further funding for business support at a time when demand for support services has doubled.
On a broader level, the project has generated greater appreciation of how public policy and intermediary organisations can enhance the survival and growth prospects of smaller businesses which are often capital-constrained.
It has also reinforced the importance of place-specific interventions that offer greater proximity and trust between borrowers and lenders than the services provided by mainstream banks.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/green-lean-logistics:
Discover how Professor Jose Arturo Garza-Reyes got involved in lean logistics as he chats about his and his colleagues’ research, and about the wide-ranging positive impact the research has had.
Green-lean logistics transcript
Research by the Centre for Supply Chain Improvement (CSCI) at the University of Derby has successfully applied lean production principles that originated in the manufacturing sector to investigate and reduce the inefficiencies of road transportation internationally.
Headed by Professor Jose Arturo Garza-Reyes, the CSCI has championed the concepts of green-lean and lean logistics, applying them to address the productivity and environmental challenges of road transport and manufacturing operations in countries such as Mexico, China, Thailand, Colombia, Oman and India.
The research has enabled world-leading names like DHL and the Red Cross to combine improved service delivery with new approaches to resource management.
While the transport and logistics sector is of vital importance to stimulate trade and economic development, it has also drawn criticism for the severe environmental damage it can cause.
In addressing these concerns, Professor Garza-Reyes has extended a leading model of mapping logistics operations to include consideration for environmental waste caused by road transport – introducing an approach known as Sustainable Transportation Value Stream Mapping (STVSM).
Through applied research which has attracted funding from the British Council, the British Academy and the National Council of Science and Technology of Mexico, Professor Garza-Reyes has trialled and implemented his green-lean toolkit in a range of organisations, resulting in a reduction in journey times and distance covered, more clients being served and a decrease in CO2 emissions.
Professor Garza-Reyes secured British Council Institutional Links funding for a project to apply his green-lean approaches to agriculture in Mexico.
Research focuses on agro-technology for sustainable and efficient farm operations, with the ultimate aim of improving food security and water conservation to alleviate poverty.
Subsequent research has generated positive economic and environmental impact for several private sector companies.
This has included introducing sustainability indicators and re-engineering truck routing processes for OXXO Femsa, the largest chain of convenience stores in Latin America, and its operations in the north of Mexico.
It resulted in ‘distance travelled in excess’ figures being cut to nil, fill loss being reduced from 71% to 54.9%, a 40% reduction in the number of trucks needed to serve daily demand, and a 40% reduction in transport operation costs.
Using the same framework, DHL Transport Operations in Mexico saw excess distance reduced by 57% while HPF Co Ltd, a third-party logistics company in China, was able to identify inefficiencies, reduce costs and become more competitive.
ThailandPost Distribution Co., Ltd., a full-service transportation and distribution provider and affiliate of
the Thai Post Company Limited (Thailand Post) uncovered significant wastes and inefficiencies related to administrative and logistics operations and similarly, Chandra Transports, a primary transporters of paper commodities in South India is expected to achieve an improvement of up to 54.7% and 21.5% efficiency in the not in-transit and in-transit operations, respectively, of its rental trucks and up to 37.4% and 32.3% efficiency improvement in the not in-transit and in-transit operations of its own company trucks.
Additionally, Chandra Transports is also expecting to achieve up to 33% of reduction in the CO2 emissions in some of its distribution and logistic processes
Compelling results are additionally being achieved in an emergency medical context where lives are at risk.
Lean logistics initiatives with Mexico’s Red Cross saw average ambulance response times fall from 41.7 to 16.4 minutes thereby improving ambulance turnaround times and creating capacity for additional shifts.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2022/international-trial-aims-to-improve-the-quality-of-life-for-long-covid-patients:
16 February 2022
Post-acute Covid-19 or ‘long-Covid’ is a colloquial term used to describe patients reporting persistent symptoms and illness for longer periods than are expected, despite receiving clinical treatment.
It is estimated that more than 100 million people worldwide have experienced lingering health concerns or are still reporting problems following a COVID infection, creating an unprecedented demand for health care services around the world.
To support the implementation of the pathways needed to meet this growing demand, the University of Derby is working in collaboration with King’s College London, Sheffield Hallam University, the University of Illinois Chicago (USA), Ramaiah Medical College (Bengaluru, India), and their neighbouring clinical organisations, to conduct an international Covid-19 recovery trial, sponsored by the NHS Health Authority .
Derby researchers and their partners are working to gather additional insight into the determinants of recovery to better understand the changes in symptomology over time.
This work is taking place in some of the countries that have been worst affected by Covid, with research sites now open at the University of Derby, the University of Illinois Chicago and the Ramaiah Medical College with a new site opening at the Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre at Sheffield Hallam University in the coming weeks.
The research has been made possible through funding from The Gilead Covid-19: COMMIT™ (Covid-19 unMet Medical needs and associated research extension) programme.
Long-Covid is a complex, multi-system disease associated with a broad range of symptoms including fever, fatigue, shortness of breath, chest pain, headaches, neurocognitive difficulties, muscle pains and weakness, depression, and other mental health conditions.
Each partner institution involved in the study is connected to a local hospital and has a dedicated on site research facility.
The 16-week trial profiles the recovery of patients with Covid-19 who have been discharged into the local community from hospitals or referred into long covid centres.
Using a combination of physiological, biological, psychological tests and observations through regular patient visits, remote meetings and patient journals, the study aims to understand more about long-Covid and develop clear support pathways to improve long-term health outcomes and restore quality of life for patients.
Dr Mark Faghy , the Associate Professor leading the project at the University of Derby, said:
“Long-Covid has left millions of people unable to do the things they once loved.
Everyday activities and work, the things we all probably take for granted, have become much more challenging and this impacts their quality of life drastically.
“With the threat of sustained transmission, infections and future Covid-19 variants, there is an urgent need to support patients with optimised and informed rehabilitation strategies to support them in the post-Covid period and reduce the substantial co-morbidities associated with long-Covid.
“To date, there is little data that has profiled the time and determinants of a successful recovery in the post-Covid-19 period.
Here we have a collaboration between clinical and non-clinical partners that will enable us to share expertise in this field and rethink how we establish the support needed.
“This project will reveal whole patient perspectives that contain multi-method methodologies and objective analysis to document symptom profiles.
This will enable us to create tailored mechanisms of support for patients recovering in community settings and give patients suffering with the long-term impact of Covid-19 their quality of life back.”
Dr Sundar Kumar Veluswamy, Assistant Professor, Department of Physiotherapy at Ramaiah Medical College, Bengaluru, India added:
"We established a comprehensive multi-disciplinary post-COVID clinic in September 2020 where we treated patients presenting with a myriad of symptoms including elevated resting heart rate, persistent fatigue, reduced muscle strength and functional capacity that eventually affected the individual’s participation in their daily routine and overall quality of life.
“The progression of these symptoms and the mechanisms of recovery are still not clearly understood.
Our project, with its robust methods and international representation, will provide an in-depth understanding of the determinants of recovery and aid in the development of tailormade intervention pathways."
Discover more about the long-Covid research happening at the University of Derby .
For more information about the Gilead fund, click here.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2021/improving-career-guidance-in-schools-and-colleges-leads-to-better-student-outcomes-and-attitudes:
18 March 2021
Improving career guidance in secondary schools and colleges can lead to better student outcomes, while also raising aspirations and increasing engagement with education, according to the final evaluation of a four year pilot.
The evaluation, carried out by the International Centre for Guidance Studies (iCeGS) at the University of Derby, followed 16 schools and colleges in the North East of England as they implemented a career guidance framework known as the Gatsby Benchmarks.
Findings within the report include:
·       Student Career readiness scores (a measure of preparedness for work) showed significant increases in all year groups across the four years of the evaluation
·       The greater the number of Benchmarks held, the greater the number of GCSE passes at A*-C/9-4 were achieved by each learner, even when gender, ethnicity, SEND status, FSM status, looked after status and Ofsted rating were statistically controlled for
·       Between 2015 and 2019, learners at pilot colleges became increasingly more likely to achieve their learning outcomes, compared to learners at local colleges or all other colleges.
As well as this, teaching staff observed real changes in learners’ engagement in class.
There was a reduction in learners querying the point of particular subjects or topics because they understood the relationship between knowledge/skills and their future career.
Employers supporting the pilot also said that young people were better able to articulate their career ideas and talk about themselves, and were better informed about their options as well as the types of jobs available.
The pilot, which began in 2015, was set up to test how schools and colleges could use the Gatsby Benchmarks for Good Career Guidance and what the impact would be on their students.
The North East region was selected, and the North East Local Enterprise Partnership ran the pilot along with the Gatsby Foundation .
Following early results from the pilot, the Government adopted the Gatsby Benchmarks into their 2017 Careers Strategy for all schools and colleges in England, and has recently renewed its commitment to having the Benchmarks as a part of national education strategy in the ‘Skills for Jobs’ White Paper .
Beth Jones, Head of Career programmes at the Gatsby Foundation, said: “Careers guidance should never be seen as an ‘add-on’ to school or college learning.
What this evaluation makes clear is the difference made to the lives of students when Careers is a priority.
As schools and colleges around the country continue to work towards the Benchmarks, we hope this evaluation will show them the amazing impact their work can have on their students.”
Dr Jill Hanson, Senior Researcher at the University of Derby's International Centre for Guidance Studies, said: “Following the pilot schools and colleges for four years has been incredibly exciting.
We have watched them implement excellent career guidance programmes and were privileged to be able to see the difference this has made to the schools and colleges, to the staff and most importantly to the students.
This pilot has had a positive impact on the knowledge, attitudes, skills and aspirations of students in the North East and it is important that this progress continues across the country."

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/transition-newly-qualified-nurses:
As recognised experts in addressing transition and employer organisational support structures, the NHS commissioned the University of Derby to investigate the acute staffing problem which sees a high percentage of newly qualified nurses (NQNs) at risk of leaving the profession in the first six months after they qualify.
Research focused on evaluating and enhancing the ‘preceptorship’ programme, a scheme which provides NQNs with additional formal support as they develop their practice.
NQNs receive guidance from a preceptor – a qualified and experienced practitioner – to strengthen their confidence and build their competence in their first post.
Funded by the Department of Health, the University of Derby and Chesterfield Royal Hospital NHS Foundation Trust explored the most effective support for preceptees and preceptors alike.
The findings led to proposals including:
Recommendations to modernise the hospital’s delivery of preceptorship led to:
Chesterfield Royal Hospital’s preceptorship scheme was highlighted nationally as good practice and a toolkit devised by the research team for NQN training has been endorsed and promoted by NHS Employers, Health Education England and adopted by three Derbyshire NHS trusts.
The tookit subsequently featured in the researchers’ Transition to Nursing textbook.
The research team also established the National Clinical Nurse Educator Network (CNEnet) for professionals who play a pivotal role in supporting the transition of NQNs.
The network offers advice to clinical nurse educators, reducing the isolation they can experience in what are often short-term contract roles.
With more than 800 members, the network is routinely consulted by the Nursing and Midwifery Council and Health Education England on policy matters relating to issues such as preceptorship.
CNEnet also has a global reach, with an online community that links clinical educators everywhere from the USA to Australia.
All our Health and Social Care research has a purpose.
We really make a difference and directly help organisations to solve real world problems and build healthy, sustainable communities.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/coral-conservation-climate-change:
As coral reefs continue to degrade at an alarming rate, a research team at the University of Derby and colleagues at the Horniman Museum and Gardens are helping to turn the tide with a ground-breaking approach to rearing young corals which could be transplanted onto damaged reefs.
Since 2014, the University’s Aquatic Research Facility, which sits within the Environmental Sustainability Research Centre (ESRC), has developed a world-leading framework to tackle the pressures climate change has placed on coral reef health and reproduction.
Although based thousands of miles away from the environments it strives to protect, the research team has influenced conservation projects in locations as far afield as the Maldives, Palau, Guam, Florida, Bermuda, Saudi Arabia and Australia.
The value of coral reefs, both ecologically and economically, cannot be overstated.
Containing some of the planet’s most diverse ecosystems (they are home to approximately 25% of all marine life), they also sustain thousands of jobs and provide income for local, regional and national economies through the fishing and tourism industries.
According to UNESCO, however, the majority of the world’s reefs are in grave danger of dying out completely by the year 2100, ravaged by pollution, over-fishing, land run-off and rising sea temperatures.
Led by Dr Michael Sweet, the ESRC team’s most substantial achievement – working with the Horniman Museum and Gardens and building on their breakthrough of ‘cracking of the code’ for successful coral spawning in laboratory settings – was to allow an entire reproductive cycle to be completed in captivity for the very first time.
Overcoming significant challenges in logistics and husbandry, they have been able to induce spawning in 24 different coral species to date.
Another important breakthrough was the co-culturing of lab-spawned corals with juvenile sea urchins which graze on the algae that can otherwise overwhelm reefs.
This provided the first evidence that the presence of baby urchins can boost survival rates in young coral in captivity by up to eight times.
Such findings will ensure that higher numbers of surviving offspring are available for future reef restoration projects.
Hear Michael's story and how his research, conducted in the University of Derby's Aquatic Research Facility, will have a game-changing impact on coral reef restoration.
View Pioneering coral spawning research at the University of Derby video transcript
The University’s work represents a major leap forward for coral conservation, opening up the possibility of year-round reproductive events in laboratories and the chance for other research teams worldwide to rear large numbers of coral larvae and juveniles for restoring damaged reefs.
The techniques have since been adopted by leading institutions such as Florida Aquarium’s Centre for Conservation, the Australian Institute of Marine Science and, more recently, the King Abdulla University of Science and Technology.
At least three further coral species, some with endangered status such as the Caribbean pillar coral and the knobby cactus coral, have now been spawned in other institutes using the technology designed in the UK.
Underpinning international policies, Dr Sweet also led a United Nations report making far-reaching recommendations for how to reduce the impact of plastics on shallow water coral reefs.
This report, launched during the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) Assembly, was presented to delegates from governments worldwide and is now informing future action by an expert UNEP group investigating marine litter and microplastics.
One of the team’s key priorities is to ensure and raise greater public awareness of the environmental threats facing coral reefs.
The coral spawning research has featured on the Blue Planet TV series and was shared through Facebook videos which attracted some 60,000 views worldwide.
A bespoke exhibition at the Horniman Museum has reached on average 143,000 visitors per year.
Dr Sweet also visits learning institutes teaching students and reef practitioners, including at the Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (Cefas) UK and the Interuniversity Institute for Marine Sciences in Eilat, Israel.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/news/2021/oak-project:
9 February 2021
The University of Derby is helping to promote art and creativity as a way of encouraging members of the public to take action which helps tackle climate change and protect nature.
The Oak Project, which brings together the University, the Yorkshire Sculpture Park and arts organisation the Bronze Oak Project, aims to help people create a relationship with nature through arts-participation.
The project is based on the findings of research conducted at the University of Derby, which shows that art plays an important role in motivating people to act to preserve the environment by building a sense of 'nature connectedness'.
Miles Richardson, Professor of Nature Connectedness at the University of Derby, said: "Wildlife loss and the climate crisis show our relationship with nature is failing.
Our research shows the power of arts-based, sensory and meaningful emotion-based activities in building a closer connection to nature.
"When people are connected to nature, they are much more likely to do more to help the environment.
These pro-environmental behaviours could be anything from buying a reusable coffee cup, recycling waste, feeding the birds and planting wildflowers, through to signing petitions or joining a 'clean-up' activity.
Nature connection is key to a more sustainable lifestyle and a new relationship with nature."
Charlie Burrell, co-founder of The Oak Project, said: "The Covid-19 pandemic has shown how rapidly change can happen in response to a crisis, and how quickly nature can recover when given space to do so.
We need to build upon these glimmers of hope and work to rebalance our relationship with the natural world for the long term, and we're excited about the role the arts can play within this."
Clare Lilley, Director of Programme at Yorkshire Sculpture Project, added: "The Oak Project follows a significantly increased awareness of the climate emergency.
It is therefore extremely well placed and timed to create positive action in response to climate-anxiety and compromised mental health highlighted by Covid-19.
"The aftershock of the pandemic will be with us for many months, if not years, and The Oak Project will sit precisely in this period - giving people access to art and nature in a way that will support mental, physical and spiritual health, as well as catalysing terrific new projects by practising artists."
The Oak Project will launch its first artist commission, to be hosted at Yorkshire Sculpture Project, in late Spring 2021, and will be announced early 2021.
Find out more about the Oak Project and the Nature Connectedness Research Group.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/enlightenment-history-derby-philosophers:
Researchers at the University of Derby are using historical collections in creative ways to engage the public and shed new light on the city’s influence in the global Enlightenment of the 17th and 18th centuries.
Imaginative public engagement projects undertaken by the University have helped put the collections of local museums, archives and other places of historical importance firmly on the cultural map.
Through close collaboration with organisations such as the Derby Local Studies and Family History Library, Derby Museum and Art Gallery, and Erasmus Darwin House in Lichfield, the researchers have raised greater awareness of the part played by Derbyshire and the Midlands in promoting Enlightenment ideas spanning philosophy, politics, literature, science and medicine.
Specialising in the history, culture and legacies of the "long 18th century" (1688-1832), the research team has turned the spotlight in particular on the Derby Philosophers – a group of intellectuals that included Erasmus Darwin and industrialists such as the Wedgwoods and Strutts – and their profound impact on social, political, scientific and urban development.
In recent years, the research team’s expertise has informed publications, public lectures, research skills workshops, conferences, exhibitions, public guided walks, dramatic performances by professional actors and even a mobile app to spark users’ spirit of discovery.
In just one example, a full programme of events was staged under the banner of ‘The Moon-Struck Philosophers’, a title inspired by one of the Library’s artefacts – a spoof playbill which appeared in a newspaper as a satirical response to a failed hot-air balloon launch of 1783.
The University’s work is also aligned with the Being Human Festival, the UK’s national celebration of the humanities which aims to make research accessible to non-specialist audiences and demonstrate its relevance to everyday lives.
A grant from the festival helped fund a Love Exploring app supporting guided walks to places significant to the Derby Philosophers.
Including an audio script with re-enactments based on archival material and the team’s research, the app won positive feedback, with 100% of participants rating the walks as good or excellent.
The University was subsequently chosen as one of the Being Human Festival’s four hubs for 2020.
Overall, the research has proved pivotal not only in introducing Derby’s lesser-known histories and collections to more diverse audiences in original ways but also in revitalising the curation practices of local museums and libraries.
They report that the University’s support has influenced their own approach to promoting historic materials, improved the knowledge base of their staff and helped attracted further volunteers.
We are a centre of excellence in exploring and communicating the impacts of Derbyshire's heritage, from the local to the global.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/creating-antibiotics-from-pests:
The University of Derby is at the forefront of many research fields, including human health and disease.
This innovative research will take place in our state-of-the-art facilities including the OMICS laboratory and insectary, and the brand-new Bioscience Superlab, once it opens late 2025.
Bacterial infections are the cause of more than 15 million deaths around the world, every year.
We contract infections from others due to poor hygiene or polluted environments.
Scientists at the University are turning their attention to species who thrive in the dirtiest places on earth and in close proximity to humans, such as cockroaches.
Our experts believe that these creatures must have potent defence mechanisms against superbugs that help them not only survive, but flourish, in the most polluted environments.
Findings from our research suggest that cockroaches have numerous molecules that successfully kill superbugs including MRSA.
These molecules do not show any adverse effects on human cells meaning they are safe to progress with.
The discoveries made in our facilities have piqued the interest of the wider scientific community and generated significant public interest.
The world is currently facing an increased threat of infectious diseases and new superbugs are emerging at an alarming rate.
This means that our vital human health research matters now more than ever and has the potential to save millions of lives.
Laboratory tests revealed strong antimicrobial agents in cockroach however, further clinical testing will allow the verification of their efficacy and impact.
There are two logical explanations for these findings; (i) species living in polluted environments have evolved a strong immune system to counter bacterial infections and/or (ii) the gut bacteria of these species produce antimicrobial molecule(s).
Our studies support both rationales, having successfully identified potent antimicrobial properties in the lysates and showed that the gut microflora of cockroaches produce substances to thwart bacterial infections.
This work taking place in Derby will pave the way in our so-called ‘war on terror cells’ i.e.
infection agents.
There have been previous research studies which focus on soil microbes as sources of active metabolites, but our own breakthrough of antibacterials from gut microbiota of pests living in polluted environments is a promising parallel avenue of research.
The next phase of this exciting project is to test potential molecules against bacterial infections.
Dr Naveed Khan has conducted this research in collaboration with R.
Siddiqui (Heriot-Watt University), S.
Maciver (University of Edinburgh), M.
Stins (Johns Hopkins University) and R.
Shah (University of Karachi).

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/improving-chronic-pain-treatment:
Health psychology experts at the University of Derby have helped improve the treatment of pain – and quality of life – for patients with chronic medical conditions such as haemophilia and sickle cell disease.
Join Professor James Elander as he discusses his work on chronic pain and how his and his colleagues’ research has helped refine NHS standards.
Managing chronic pain transcript
Many patients with chronic illnesses suffer pain that is secondary to the main symptoms of their condition.
While it causes significant distress, this pain is often regarded as lower priority by healthcare providers and can sometimes be overlooked in treatment protocols.
Researchers at the University of Derby have raised greater awareness of the problem, leading to changes in care practices internationally that ensure sufferers can live with their pain more effectively.
The work has shaped pain management programmes in both the UK and USA, especially for:
Since 2006, Professor of Health Psychology James Elander has led interdisciplinary studies investigating how people with haemophilia cope with the agony of recurrent joint bleeds.
This has included producing the first evidence about pain acceptance among people with haemophilia, plus a DVD to help affected people self-manage their pain.
Having generated wider recognition of haemophilia as a chronic pain condition, the research brought about improvements in practice promoted by influential US bodies such as the National Hemophilia Foundation and the Medical and Scientific Advisory Council Pain Initiative.
In Europe, coverage of the research in top-ranked journals led to numerous requests for the pain management DVD.
Another key strand of the University’s research focuses on the pain associated with SCD, a condition affecting the red blood cells.
It has addressed a trend where some SCD patients have been stigmatised as ‘drug-seeking’, with healthcare staff reluctant to prescribe strong analgesics for pain relief because of their concerns over the opioid epidemic.
Providing comparisons between the UK and USA, the research has explored SCD patients’ experiences of how their painful episodes were managed in hospital and how their pain was perceived and assessed by care staff.
A major psychometric exercise resulted in the development of new ways to measure patients’ satisfaction with their pain treatment.
The findings have since been used to underpin clinical practice, staff training and evaluation of pain management in organisations with registered SCD patients, from the Barts Health NHS Trust in London to the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore.
In addition, they have informed:
In the US, the research was also the basis for guidance issued by the Department of Health and Human Services on differentiating addiction from pseudo-addiction and managing chronic pain in the context of substance use disorders.
Further research has seen the University of Derby collaborating with NHS Multidisciplinary Pain Services to explore the factors that affect the success of treatment for chronic back pain.
This has supported the planning and long-term effectiveness of pain management programmes.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/deeper-connections-with-nature:
Behavioural research at the University of Derby is shaping national and international programmes which draw on the power of nature connectedness to improve mental wellbeing and encourage pro-environmental action.
The University of Derby’s Nature Connectedness Research Group (NCRG) has influenced the approach taken by leading nature conservation organisations worldwide to strengthen people’s relationship with nature and to help tackle climate change, reduce biodiversity loss and enhance mental wellbeing.
Established in 2013, the NCRG was the first research team in the country to focus on the psychology behind people’s sense of their connection with the natural world.
Its work has been recognised by Universities UK as one of the country’s 100 best breakthroughs because of its significant positive impact on people’s everyday lives.
Research from NCRG led to the development of Pathways to Nature Connectedness, an approach enabling people to foster a new form of relationship with nature which is closer, healthier and more sustainable.
Their work has provided a unique framework for organisations to design visitor programmes that build on this deeper connection with nature to encourage pro-environmental behaviour.
The National Trust reported that visitors developed a much stronger appreciation of nature after embedding the NCRG Pathways into its outdoor experience programme.
The Pathways subsequently also informed the Trust’s 50 Things To do Before You’re 11¾ campaign which saw a 400% increase in online traffic to their campaign website.
Similarly, the University’s work underpinned the national 30 Days Wild campaign run by The Wildlife Trusts to encourage people to engage with nature every day each June.
Over 1,000,000 people engaged with these activities and reported sustained improvements to their happiness, health, pro-nature conservation behaviour and nature connectedness.
Internationally, the Pathways have been used by:
They are also influencing international policy and practice on nature, environment and wellbeing, with the pathways model informing the development of the UN’s post-2020 Biodiversity Framework.
To underpin its ongoing work in this field, the NCRG has played a key role in the development of the Nature Connection Index (NCI), a new measure for national statistical research, in a project supported by organisations such as Natural England, the RSPB, the National Trust, Historic England and The Wildlife Trusts.
This has led to key insights that inform policy, such as revealing the level of nature connectedness across people’s lifespan and identifying a sharp dip in teenage years.
The team has also created a first-of-its-kind psychometric scale to measure pro-nature conservation behaviours.
Together with the Nature Connection Index, this scale is now being used in the UK’s new People and Nature Survey which will help evaluate the effectiveness of the 25-year Environment Plan drawn up by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
Other national policies shaped by NCRG research include the University Mental Health Charter, which highlights the team’s work on a smartphone app that encourages people to engage with urban nature to deliver mental wellbeing.
Their studies show that an app prompting users to record the ‘good things’ in nature every day can bring clinically significant improvements in mental health.
Our nature connections research aims to understand people’s sense of their relationship with the natural world and create everyday interventions in order to improve connectedness.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/maths-anxiety-solutions:
Psychology experts at the University of Derby are leading a drive to raise maths attainment in education and improve numeracy skills in the workplace – by tackling the fear of maths affecting both children and adults.
With real costs linked to low numeracy skills in adults, Dr Thomas Hunt discusses how the University’s Mathematics Anxiety Research Group has focused on understanding maths anxiety and how their research has helped pupils attain higher grades
Maths anxiety transcript
With children as young as four in England feeling worried about working with numbers, and adults with poor numeracy skills twice as likely to be unemployed in the UK, strategies to overcome maths anxiety are increasingly important.
The University of Derby is helping educators, charities, public health bodies and employers to address this challenge, ultimately raising levels of maths achievement and reducing the negative impact on the UK economy at a time when the cost of poor numeracy is estimated at £388 million per week.
Led by Dr Thomas Hunt, the research team has raised greater awareness of how maths anxiety is the strongest predictor of an individual’s maths attainment.
Its work has included developing and validating new scales to measure maths anxiety­, including the UK’s first such scales for children aged four to seven and for adults.
These tools are now used regularly in schools to identify the pupils most in need of confidence-building and to address the drop in attainment where maths anxiety negatively impacts a child’s maths performance.
At the same time, the University has influenced new approaches to improving adult numeracy by turning the spotlight on the emotional barriers that can affect people’s self-belief at any age when they are confronted with numbers and data.
Dr Hunt’s studies informed the National Numeracy charity’s report Building a Numerate Nation which highlighted how 49% of working age UK adults currently have the numeracy levels of a primary school child and that the average cost to individuals with poor numeracy is £460 per year.
His contributions have resulted in changes to the charity’s strategic focus and underpinned its activities, such as workshops to tackle maths anxiety in NHS healthcare assistants.
Health Education England (HEE) has drawn on the University’s work to address weaknesses in the functional numeracy skills of the support workforce within the NHS.
This has included staging events and webinars showcasing the findings on maths anxiety to support numeracy training on a national scale.
The researchers have supported organisations, such as the British Dyslexia Association, in improving understanding of the issue; their findings were used as part of the Pearson Education PowerofMaths campaign; and they have partnered with Vretta Inc, a global company specialising in maths education technology, to help them evaluate attitudes to maths.
Following pilot work with Vretta Inc, the University of Derby became Vretta’s first academic hub in the UK to support success in mathematics.
The team’s work with younger children has attracted global attention.
An extensive study revealed that children as young as four:
The research also underlined how maths-anxious children used avoidance to conceal their difficulties with the subject, which can result in poor performance.
Other projects undertaken by the team have shown how time pressure in completing maths problems can adversely affect children and adults who are apprehensive about the subject.
One neurophysiological study also provided the first evidence that gamma-band brain activity denoting stress is related to maths anxiety.
Such findings have underpinned staff development workshops which the researchers have delivered to education professionals in the UK and as far afield as Turkey and Uganda.
The focus is not only on boosting children’s competence and confidence with maths but also on ensuring they are not discouraged from pursuing future courses and careers that involve maths.
In Derbyshire and Staffordshire, Dr Hunt has run sessions for pupils, teachers and educational psychologists, produced tailor-made teaching resources and given talks to parents.
One workshop at an Academy in Burton-upon-Trent specifically targeted pupils identified using the University’s mathematics anxiety scale – on average, it led to them improving on their earlier mock exam performance by almost half a grade.
Offering a great student experience alongside research excellence, flexible study, and experienced staff.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/edna-tracing-endangered-invasive:
Experts at the University of Derby are developing new DNA barcoding techniques to trace both rare or endangered species and those which are invading or colonizing various freshwater habitats around the world – providing a vital first step for successful conservation programmes and delivering real world solutions for the ecological industry.
Reliable surveying techniques are essential to aid the protection of endangered species and chart the spread of invasive species.
Using environmental DNA (eDNA), researchers at the University of Derby are transforming the way different species can be detected, monitored and quantified, opening up avenues for the conservation of rare species and for the effective management of non-native species which are invading and colonising various freshwater habitats worldwide.
Environmental DNA assessment methods developed and validated by the University’s Aquatic Research Facility, within the Environmental Sustainability Research Centre (ESRC), have already been transferred to industry for commercial use and adopted by leading national and international organisations working in the field of wildlife and habitat conservation and management.
Capable of detecting very small numbers of individuals or populations, the eDNA approach is a more accurate, cost-effective, and time-efficient method of surveying that causes less damage to vulnerable habitats and does not require expert staff to collect samples.
The research team’s success lies in improving the way these methods can be used in freshwater environments, where eDNA is diluted and distributed by water movement and affected by environmental factors such as temperature and salinity.
Their work has therefore involved rigorous validation for each new eDNA assay produced.
So far, they have devised specific eDNA assays for species like the white-clawed crayfish and the freshwater pearl mussel, both classified as endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
The same methods have also been used to chart the presence of highly invasive species such as the demon shrimp and marbled crayfish which threaten native populations.
In one of its most important advances, the team partnered with forensic analysis specialists SureScreen Scientifics who have adopted and released assays for the white-clawed and signal crayfish as a new commercial service.
This has allowed the company to diversify into ecological surveying markets and create new revenue streams.
The impact of the collaboration was highlighted by the National Centre for Universities and Business in its State of the Relationship annual report for 2019.
The novel eDNA techniques have also been adopted for species-distribution surveys by a range of governmental, charitable and scientific organisations.
The researchers were commissioned by:
Similar surveys have taken place at international locations through the team’s collaborations with researchers at the Hellenic Centre for Marine and Inland Waters Research in Greece, the Research Institute for Nature and Forest in Belgium, and the German Cancer Research Institute.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/making-good-career-decisions:
Research from the University of Derby has led to every student in mainstream secondary education in England benefitting from new standards for excellence as part of their school’s career guidance programme.
Professor Siobhan Neary shares how the International Centre for Guidance Studies at the University was commissioned to identify what world-class careers guidance looks like and how the Gatsby Benchmarks are now being used internationally.
Making good career decisions transcript
The Gatsby Benchmarks, developed by Professor Sir John Holman with colleagues from the University, are now a cornerstone of the Department for Education’s (DfE) 2017 Careers Strategy, making them a statutory requirement for all schools and colleges to implement.
The benchmarks ensure that students can benefit from a programme of advice and guidance that is stable, structured and delivered by individuals with the right skills and experience to inform their educational and professional trajectories.
Based on its longstanding reputation for credible research into best practice in the delivery and provision of career guidance, the International Centre for Guidance Studies (iCeGS) was commissioned by the Gatsby Charitable Foundation in 2014 to undertake international research to identify what world-class careers guidance looks like.
The study was conducted against a backdrop of growing criticism about the quality of guidance for young people after careers provision in England was deregulated, with responsibility handed directly to schools.
The Centre’s findings informed the Foundation’s Good Career Guidance Report and provided the rationale for the eight Gatsby Benchmarks which offer a robust but user-friendly set of measurements for schools and colleges to evaluate the level and quality of their careers provision.
The Gatsby Benchmarks went on to be endorsed at the highest level of education policy and by major stakeholders including government, the professional associations, national organisations providing career guidance services, and employers’ associations.
They formed a cornerstone of the DfE’s 2017 Careers Strategy which stipulated that every school and college in England should apply the benchmarks by 2020.
iCeGS has since developed a significant portfolio of research to support the Gatsby initiative, including evaluating the pilot implementation in the North East of England.
Its findings on factors such as the importance of a cohesive ‘whole school’ approach have shaped the DfE’s statutory guidance and led to an innovative new model of careers leadership.
The Centre also secured funding from Teach First to undertake an evaluation of its Careers and Employability Initiative which illustrated the value of having a named senior member of staff with strategic insight and industry knowledge to steer effective careers provision.
This research output influenced the DfE to formalise its expectation that all schools and colleges should have a named Careers Leader and the Careers and Enterprise Company drew extensively on iCeGS research to conceptualise the role and the training and development needs of new Careers Leaders.
Such has been the influence exerted by the Gatsby Benchmarks, that there has been significant international interest, including from Hong Kong, Sweden and Norway.
The Bertelsmann Foundation in Spain has already adapted the benchmarks for use in 68 educational institutions.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/diverging-pathways-further-education:
University of Derby researchers in Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) have highlighted how further education policies have the potential to widen the gap in young people’s transitions to employment and adulthood.
The research has led to changes in policy at national and institutional level, benefiting policymakers, their agencies, educators and some of the most marginalised students in the post-16 education system.
Discover how Professor Bill Esmond’s interest in the relationship between work and learning has led to some ground-breaking research.
Connecting learning and employment transcript
A growing divide between opportunities for the most advantaged students on ‘technical’ routes and more marginalised learners is associated with widening differences in curriculum and in teaching.
Their effects can further be seen in struggles over the education of teachers and trainers in both further education and apprenticeships.
Following the Sainsbury Review, the University’s study of Level 3 work experience commissioned for the Gatsby Charitable Foundation, showed some students gaining access to specialist knowledge only available on placements but others being accustomed to routine employment.
Subsequent funding awarded by the Department for Education (DfE) to evaluate the first industry placement pilots, and a further study of the way workplace learning was leading to very different learning experiences, led the research team to characterise these differences as the formation of ‘technical elites’ and ‘welfare VET’ .
These differences illustrate the contrasting opportunities that are engendered by higher technical vocational programmes associated with professional areas such as engineering and construction, and lower level and lower status programmes associated with more precarious and poorly paid job roles in the service sector
The research has had significant effects on the policy debate, including changes to the DfE’s placement policies.
The University is now working to support colleges in providing more meaningful experiences of workplace learning for all students.
Conducted in partnership with Guernsey College, the University has been involved in developing a different kind of curriculum for the lowest attaining young people which is engaging, offers the opportunity for meaningful learning in the workplace, and is more consistent with a commitment to social justice.
The impact of this project on practice and policy has extended beyond Guernsey College, informing policy development for Applied Qualifications at Level 2 and below, and demonstrating the value of a socially just curriculum.
Young people involved are remaining in college and/or moving on to sustainable and secure employment.
Statistical analysis shows an increase in qualification achievement, an increase in retention, and a decrease in numbers becoming NEET (not in education, employment, or training) across the term of the project
Limited and narrow views of learning at work have been matched by over-simplified views of vocational teaching, and in turn FE teacher education.
Researchers at Derby have demonstrated how vocational teachers described as ‘dual professionals’ (expert teachers and experts in their fields) experience precarious employment and poor support in their early teaching.
This research has been taken up through calls for stronger professional formation, and the University continues to support colleges in developing these areas.
We carry out research studies within the broad fields of professional, continuing, technical and vocational education.
We carry out research and development work in these areas.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/format-international-photography-festival:
FORMAT delivers a year-round multi-stranded programme of international commissions, open calls, residencies, conferences, workshops and collaborations but its centrepiece is a prestige biennale promoting new work by world-renowned practitioners and spotlighting emerging talent.
The latest biennale, FORMAT19, featured 3,000-plus works by 300 artists from over 70 countries, strengthening Derby’s reputation as a cultural powerhouse and generating significant financial and social benefits.
An economic footprint evaluation of the Festival calculated that its 23,500 visitors brought an extra £1.9m to the city.
Almost half of the visitors were from beyond the East Midlands, with 5% from beyond the UK.
80% of visitors said they were likely to revisit Derby’s cultural offer.
As part of a drive to encourage public understanding and debate of photographic practice, the Festival brings internationally renowned work to new audiences and venues.
Many FORMAT events were staged in smaller venues across the East Midlands, including converted temporary and pop-up spaces and at landmark locations such as Derwent Valley World Heritage sites across Derbyshire.
Broadening this reach further still, a dynamic social media strategy engaged 14,500 Instagram, 24,000 Twitter and 22,500 Facebook followers while media coverage stretched from the US to China, achieving an estimated advertising value equivalent of £1.5m.
To date FORMAT has run to nine editions exploring global issues as diverse as the photograph as reflection of reality ‘Evidence’ (2015), ecological impact and legacies ‘Habitat’ (2017) and the past, memory and the archive ‘Forever/Now’ (2019).
It is underpinned by a rich heritage of education and research into photography and related media practice, which spans more than five decades and is brought together in the University’s Digital and Material Artistic Research Centre.
Over the years, the Festival has grown in scope and stature, thanks to its continued success in attracting funding from eminent cultural sector partners including Arts Council England and the Heritage Lottery Fund.
It is the only UK member of ‘The Festival of Light’, a global network of over 20 photography festivals.
FORMAT has not only captured but also driven dramatic changes in contemporary photography practice.
Research-engaged staff serve on the steering group and jury panels, exhibit their own work and contribute to catalogue essays.
They also organise a high-profile conference as a core element of the Festival to bring together leading academics, writers, curators and practitioners.
As a truly international event, FORMAT is committed to embracing diverse voices and acts as a springboard for further global collaborations.
Exhibits commissioned for the 2019 Festival, featuring works by 300 artists from over 70 countries have gone on to tour China with earlier Festivals touring extensively across Europe.
The Digital and Material Artistic Research Centre (DMARC) is the home to artistic research from the disciplines of Performing Arts, Music, Media, Art and Design within the School of Arts.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/protecting-urban-parks:
Research by Professor Paul Elliott is pivotal in driving a greater public understanding of nature in our towns and cities and promoting pro-environmental behaviours through imaginative community projects across the East Midlands.
Drawing on Elliott’s expertise for its report, the National Review of Research Priorities for Urban Parks, Designed Landscapes and Open Spaces, English Heritage have made significant recommendations for the management of our urban environment, focusing on the preservation, restoration and management of public parks.
Professor Elliott’s research is rooted in a profound conviction that studies of the history of arboriculture and green spaces can underpin planning for environmental sustainability and mobilise local organisations and community volunteers to support the conservation agenda.
Through blogs and publications, he has argued that the time is now ripe for more ambitious and historically informed re-forestation and re-wilding schemes, such as an expansion of the National Forest boundaries to embrace more urban areas.
He champions the social, cultural and economic advantages of large-scale planting schemes, from job creation to increased biodiversity, flood prevention to community cohesion.
Professor Elliott’s studies have also underpinned community history initiatives which attracted funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (ARHC).
They have involved far-reaching working relationships with local authorities, arts organisations and the voluntary sector to engage wider audiences in celebrating the history of green spaces.
The Nottingham Green Spaces Community History project, which he co-produced with researchers from the University of Nottingham, charted the social history of the city’s most important parks.
Its highpoint was a specially commissioned play, Breathing Spaces, performed by Excavate theatre group in local parks during Love Parks Week.
To coincide with the First World War centenary, Professor Elliot also led a Derby Parks in Wartime collaborative project which chronicled how parks were employed in the war effort – from hosting recruitment drives for the armed forces to serving as places of memorialisation.
More recently, Professor Elliott’s work has also been included in an app trail around Derby Arboretum, designed to bring this research to younger and family audiences.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/audio-engineering-research:
The World Health Organisation, Glastonbury Festival, YouTube and the BBC are just some of the many organisations to have tuned into the University of Derby’s expertise in immersive and live audio applications.
Listen to Professor Adam Hill as he chats about how his research has been applied globally and has been fundamental in industry guidance.
Safe listening experience transcript
Audio engineering researchers at the University of Derby have won global attention for projects which are delivering a consistently high-quality and safe listening experience for all – whether in our living rooms or at major outdoor festivals.
Dr Bruce Wiggins and Dr Adam Hill have broken new ground in analysing and optimising sound reproduction and reinforcement.
Their work has brought exciting new developments in creative immersive audio technology, transformed the sound systems at music festivals and performance venues, and helped set new standards for audience safety.
The research has led to technical advances in surround sound and the optimisation of subwoofer systems and has been adopted by audio production professionals worldwide.
A leading manufacturer of professional loudspeaker systems, Funktion-One, drew on their expertise to deliver immersive and engaging sound at large-scale outdoor events.
The company employed software developed at the University to bring a new dimension to performances on the Glade stage at Glastonbury Festival.
The University’s research to improve subwoofer systems has also been used by sound engineers at US festivals and on a worldwide arena tour by The Prodigy.
A novel signal processing algorithm – designed to deliver high-quality listening experiences for audience members at live events – informed the development of a new auditorium in New Zealand’s National Library.
Beyond live performances, tools developed by Drs Wiggins and Hill have improved the sound quality of 360/virtual reality videos on YouTube and VLC Media Player and enhanced the sound systems on corporate aircraft.
One innovative study solved a marine biology problem by adopting special effects from the music industry.
In an underwater acoustics project featured on the BBC’s Blue Planet II, virtual bass algorithms were used to detect and monitor sounds from creatures living in and around coral reefs to help assess reef health.
On the safety front, the University’s investigations into sound exposure and noise pollution have pinpointed ways to avoid unsafe sound pressure levels at large-scale outdoor music events and to minimise noise annoyance for surrounding communities.
Dr.
Hill has been invited to contribute his expertise to the World Health Organisation’s Make Listening Safe initiative, an international regulatory framework for loud sounds.
The University’s work has also influenced British standards for PA and emergency sound systems in sports grounds and large public buildings as well as International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards on rating speech intelligibility in sound systems.
View Democracy of Sound video transcript
This is your opportunity to join a vibrant academic community that will prepare you for a rewarding and exciting career.
We look forward to working with you very soon.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/united-nations-universal-protocol:
Advice by Professor Ray Bull , Professor of Criminal Investigation at the University of Derby, underpinned the design of the PEACE method of investigative interviewing which has brought radical improvements to the way police conduct their interviews with suspects.
With its emphasis on objectivity, impartiality and fairness, PEACE has replaced ‘interrogation’ techniques that were often coercive and manipulative, sometimes resulting in false confessions.
The approach – which stands for Planning, Engage, Account, Closure and Evaluation – was adopted by police in England and Wales in 1992 and its principles have since been taken up by investigators worldwide.
In the last two years Professor Bull has been involved in drafting for adoption by the United Nations of the ‘Universal Protocol on Non-coercive Interviewing and Associated Safeguards’.
This will set international standards on interviewing that protect human rights while improving the integrity and security of convictions.
Professor Bull was invited to help draft the Protocol after the UN’s then Special Rapporteur on Torture, Juan Mendez, drew heavily on his research in a 2016 report that recommended worldwide adoption of investigative interviewing procedures such as the PEACE method.
It pointed out that, while this method was initially developed for criminal investigations, it could be applied in other contexts such as intelligence and military operations.
The UN invitation is the culmination of a long-standing research programme in which Professor Bull has continued to evaluate, update and disseminate the PEACE method internationally.
His studies have proved the effectiveness of techniques such as the use of rapport, open-type questions, and the gradual disclosure of information/evidence throughout an interview.
He has also researched police interview strategies from the perspective of suspects – including the first USA survey to assess the views of jail inmates – which highlighted how they are more responsive to rapport-building, non-adversarial interview strategies when they decide whether to confess.
Training programmes introduced as a result of Professor Bull’s research have not only influenced the working practices of all police officers in England and Wales but also had a far-reaching impact in multiple countries.
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police attribute their focus on a more tactical use of evidence and a phased interview model to his work, while in the USA he has been credited with helping to stop the spread of coercive interrogation.
Professor Bull has presented his research to police forces, academies and universities in countries such as China, Malaysia, Japan, Brazil, Peru, Taiwan, Thailand, Jamaica and South Africa, providing direct input to policy and practice.
He has contributed to the training of professionals ranging from terrorism investigators in Pakistan to border guards in Poland and child abuse investigators in Russia.
Leading companies offering investigation training worldwide have also adapted their services in line with his thinking.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/social-mobility-tackling-inequalities:
Social mobility projects aimed at transforming the lives of disadvantaged children and families in Derby have been shaped, strengthened and extended – thanks to the expertise of University of Derby researchers.
With Derby designated as an ‘Opportunity Area’ by the government, research has played a pivotal role in the drive to raise educational standards in the city and address inequalities in relation to disadvantaged children, young people, families and communities.
In-depth studies by a University team specialising in inequality and social justice research have helped develop, evaluate and support successful funding applications for several ‘placemaking’ initiatives which have benefited thousands of disadvantaged young people.
The achievements led to the University being recognised in the social and community impact category of the Guardian University Awards for 2020.
Commissioned by the Department for Education via Derby County Community Trust, the University team worked to inform practitioners across the city to close social mobility gaps through participatory and action research, addressing pressing concerns brought to the fore in 2016 when Derby was identified as a ‘cold spot’ by the Social Mobility Commission, ranking 303rd out of 324 areas.
Led by Professor Alexander Nunn, the team has a strong international reputation for exploring themes such as how social inequality is passed on across generations, having previously undertaken work on this topic for the UK government and the Council of Europe; the latter leading to the drafting of the Council’s Policy Guidelines on Social Mobility and Social Cohesion.
Their work has had a direct impact on the organisational capacity, policies and practices of local organisations, providing them with a strong evidence-based platform to leverage further funding:
Derby Theatre received Arts Council funding of £2.3m to extend Derby’s Reimagine and Creative Arts Network projects, which will engage around 2,000 young people, 190 artists, 700 participants and 23,000 audience members over three years.
Research from the University helped to shape the targeting of these schemes at those sections of the community who would benefit the most and supported the Theatre in helping them introduce and sustain new monitoring and evaluation techniques.
Derby Theatre and Derby Cultural Education Partnership (DCEP) received funding for a three-year extension to their Plus One initiative which has sparked greater interest in the arts among looked after children, care leavers and their families.
Participants in the scheme also have access to a therapist, specifically hired by DCEP to address risks identified by the research in relation to the social harm of poverty and inequality.
#ThisisDerby, a partnership project to improve young people’s employability skills, resilience and emotional wellbeing through sport, arts and culture, has also been extended.
Derby County Community Trust used the research to support training artists and coaches to address social mobility concerns and build essential life skills in their interactions with young people.
Funding was also secured to continue the sports element of the initiative for a year, benefiting some 3,000 young people.
Roma Community Care used the research to support a successful grant application to sustain its youth club which regularly serves around 60 young people.
It has also introduced new monitoring and evaluation techniques to improve its services.
The University of Derby’s research has reinforced the achievements of these schemes in equipping young people with enhanced life skills, confidence and a sense of social inclusion.
Families and neighbourhoods have benefited from greater social cohesion while community facilities have been rejuvenated.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/tackling-religious-discrimination:
For over two decades, policy-makers across Europe and the UK have drawn on the University of Derby’s research expertise to work towards achieving greater equality of opportunity and inclusion for people with a diverse range of faiths and beliefs.
In a substantial body of work, the researchers have shed new light on the nature and extent of unfair treatment on the basis of religion, investigated ways of tackling anti-Semitism through education, and undertaken important studies into the radicalisation of young people.
The research features three key strands where major advances have been made:
As a leading authority in the field, Professor Paul Weller has helped shape the UK Equality and Human Rights Commission’s guidelines for employers on religion and belief in the workplace.
In addition, he contributed to the Commission’s Review of Equality and Human Rights Law Relating to Religion or Belief as well as its broader policy developments.
Research from the University also provided a strong foundation for Advance HE’s guidance on how to create a higher-education environment where all students and staff feel safe to be themselves and can respectfully explore differences of thought and practice.
Entitled Religion and Belief: supporting inclusion of staff and students in higher education and colleges, this guidance was underpinned by the University’s field and survey research into whether and how student and staff experiences differ because of their religion or belief.
Tackling anti-Semitism through public education is a significant focus for the University’s researchers.
Their findings on the classroom challenges facing educators in teaching about subjects such as the Holocaust have fed into policy guidelines produced by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR).
The research also informed a background paper presented at a meeting of the European Commission’s Working Group on Anti-Semitism which informed the Ministries of Education in the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).
The non-profit organisation CEJI: A Jewish Contribution to an Inclusive Europe has used recommendations put forward by the University to prepare teaching resources and aids which address anti-Semitism.
The University is also advising the Imperial War Museum’s Second World War and Holocaust Partnership Programme.
Supported by the National Lottery Heritage Fund, this scheme catalyses diverse local history projects across the UK which explore British responses to Nazi anti-Semitism, racism and the 1939-1945 conflict.
To deepen understanding of the Home Office’s Prevent duty, which aims to challenge extremist ideology and tackle the radicalisation of vulnerable people, the Multi-Faith Centre at the University has delivered research-informed workshops to 1,164 statutory and voluntary sector staff.
The training was based on extensive studies by sociologist Dr Phil Henry on the radicalisation of adolescents and young adults, including the influences that can lead them to embrace activist voices.
Overall, the University’s research in this field has played a major role in informing the debate about some of the most pressing issues of our time and shaping policies designed to create a fairer and more just society for all.
We specialise in promoting applied social research focused on making a progressive difference to society, policy and practice.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/critical-thinking-skills-healthcare-professionals:
As healthcare settings become ever more complex and demanding, skills such as critical thinking and self-reflection are essential to ensure professionals can adapt to rapid changes in policy and practice.
Research at the University of Derby has equipped them to meet that challenge.
A team of researchers from disciplines such as health psychology and bioscience has devised a range of teaching resources, toolkits and techniques which help healthcare students in higher education to develop the attitudes and skills they need to excel throughout their future careers.
Aimed at improving the academic achievements and lifelong learning skills of students in medicine, nursing, health sciences, health psychology, biological sciences and other allied health disciplines, the materials have now been incorporated in teaching strategies at universities around the world.
The resources are based on extensive studies undertaken at the University to explore more effective ways of improving academic integrity by enhancing critical thinking and reducing the risk of plagiarism on health-related courses.
The researchers’ work is aligned with the priorities of government, professional and regulatory bodies, including the Department of Health and the Nursing and Midwifery Council, which promote high standards of academic literacy and evidence-based healthcare practice.
One of the most influential outcomes is the Critical Thinking Toolkit (CriTT), which helps identify students’ development needs.
Providing greater validity and reliability than previous measures, the CriTT has proved particularly valuable for nurse educators who must show that their students have improved their critical thinking skills – an attribute which is notoriously difficult to demonstrate.
Now translated into a number of languages including Arabic, Chinese and French, the toolkit forms part of professional development and study skills modules at various UK universities and has been used by practitioners and researchers as far afield as Canada and Slovenia.
The research team has also focused on raising the profile of academic integrity as a specific scientific field and practice, including in-depth analysis of how the concept is interpreted in different countries and cultures.
This research has led to the European Network of Academic Integrity (ENAI) producing handbooks, teaching aids, case studies and self-evaluation tools to engage staff and students, with particular emphasis placed on ethical dilemmas in healthcare.
Available online in seven languages, the materials have been taken up by universities in over 30 countries.
The researchers developed ways to help students avoid unintentional plagiarism by strengthening their ‘authorial identity’ – their sense of themselves as authors and their understanding of the concept of authorship.
This provides a positive, constructive way to instruct students about avoiding plagiarism than traditional ‘things-you-mustn’t-do’ approaches, and has been incorporated in the academic integrity and plagiarism policies of universities around the world, including in Canada and Hong Kong.
Research from the University of Derby has provided vital insights which forge practitioner pathways that help healthcare and allied health students to develop those critical skills that are the foundation of their future professional practice.
Our Human Sciences Research Centre conducts theoretical and applied research into the prevention and treatment of diseases and into improvements to the quality of life for people of all ages.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/compassion-mental-health-wellbeing:
Pioneering research at the University of Derby has led to effective therapies and interventions – centred on the power of compassion.
At a time when conditions such as anxiety and depression cost the global economy $1 trillion per year, the University of Derby has responded to calls from the World Health Organisation for ‘scalable psychological therapies’ to address the challenge.
A world-renowned research team at the University has developed compassion-based interventions as effective treatments for a wide range of health disorders.
Promoting mental and emotional health by encouraging people to show greater compassion towards themselves and enabling them to receive compassion from others, has led to the Derby model being used by clinicians in over 25 countries including Italy, Australia, Canada, Ireland and the USA, and in workplace settings spanning everything from education to emergency services.
Professor of Clinical Psychology and the originator of compassion-based theory, Paul Gilbert OBE, has spearheaded ground breaking approaches to address self-criticism and shame - common characteristics of mental health issues.
Compassion-focused therapy (CFT) builds patients’ capacity for self-compassion as an antidote to self-criticism while a non-clinical equivalent – compassionate mind training (CMT) – is increasingly used to develop emotion-regulation skills and improve wellbeing in the general public and in staff development programmes.
Working alongside other research teams, the University has tailored CFT for over 17 different patient groups experiencing conditions such as depression, self-harm, trauma, psychosis, bipolar disorder, alcohol abuse, chronic pain and eating disorders.
It has become an established and preferred treatment in over 20 NHS Trusts and is now practised across 25 countries spanning every continent.
Extensive work has been undertaken by Professor Gilbert and Senior Research Fellow Dr Kirsten McEwan and others to develop scales that assess the effectiveness of CFT – 23 validated measures are now widely used by practitioners and have been translated into 15 languages.
Their measure assessing fears of compassion has provided guidance for clinicians on how to address fears, blocks and resistance in patients undergoing the therapy.
Dr McEwan’s research has led to the development of a compassion stimulus set, a facial expression library used by researchers to assess cognitive responses to compassion.
Working collaboratively with Professor Gilbert’s charity, The Compassionate Mind Foundation, the research team co-ordinates global training initiatives.
Since 2018, some 1,400 healthcare professionals worldwide have been trained to deliver compassion-based interventions and the University has an established Postgraduate Certificate enabling students to achieve CFT practitioner status.
Poor mental health costs UK employers up to £45 billion a year, with NHS staff sickness accounting for over £1.1 billion.
Healthcare professionals often suffer traumatic experiences leading to burnout, high turnover and loss of productivity.
A workplace mental health organisation, Wellbeing Works, has adopted the University’s compassion-based models with GP practices and NHS Trusts.
At Barts Health NHS Trust in London, this led to reduced turnover of nursing staff, saving £380,000 in one year.
Wellbeing Works has applied the same approach in other sectors, including the police, fire and rescue, armed forces, law, accountancy, insurance and higher education.
One client, Manchester Metropolitan University, saved £600,000 in a year through improved staff retention and lower operating costs.
In Denmark, another workplace wellbeing company, Mindwork, has applied CMT with over 12,000 individuals in more than 40 organisations ranging from banking to engineering.
As stress among teachers and pupils has become endemic – and 30% of UK teachers leave the profession within five years – the University has trialled, tested and developed a CMT professional development programme for schools.
Led by Associate Professor and Reader in Emotion Science Professor Frances Maratos , the Compassion in Schools initiative has trained 580 teaching staff across the East Midlands and Portugal, leading to significant improvements in their mental health.
The approach has also been successfully applied in the curriculum, helping pupils deal with anxiety at critical times such as the transition from primary to secondary school.
In Portugal, the CMT course developed by Professor Maratos , Professor Gilbert and our Portuguese partner Marcella Matos has been recognised by the Ministry of Education to support wellbeing across educational communities of teachers, students, parents and non-teaching staff.
The University’s compassion-based interventions are increasingly reaching other areas of public life, with online resources opening up affordable solutions for wider use.
The researchers collaborated with Slimming World, which introduced CMT to help its 400,000 members calm their ‘inner critic’ and avoid relapse.
This included a compassion-based app that reduced drop-outs from the weight loss programmes by 10%.
The researchers also play an influential role in shaping national public policy on health and wellbeing, including contributing expertise to the cross-party Compassion in Politics steering committee and the Government’s Mindfulness Initiative steering group.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/public-arts-research-climate-emergency:
Vital debates about climate change are being taken into new communities – thanks to thought-provoking artistic research by the University of Derby.
Researchers from the University of Derby have devised original approaches that inspire the public to engage with environmental issues through site-specific art installations, performances and events.
Caroline Locke and Paula McCloskey of the Digital and Material Artistic Research Centre translate their research into powerful public engagement projects that deepen people’s appreciation of the environment and urge them to change their behaviour in the face of climate emergency.
Their work draws on important global issues – from melting ice caps to anti-fracking campaigns – but the emphasis throughout is on encouraging diverse communities to contribute their own local understanding in the drive to tackle climate change.
Interdisciplinary artist Caroline Locke works at the intersection of art, science and technology.
In a suite of projects titled Significant Trees, she has borrowed techniques from engineers, arboriculturists, computer and climate scientists to gather and reinvent data for socially engaged art practice.
This included a residency at Yorkshire Sculpture Park, where her interactive sculpture, The Frequency of Trees, became part of the open-air collection attracting over 700,000 visitors per year.
Having recorded the way that branches and leaves move, she interpreted her measurements as sounds which visitors could experience via tuning forks.
To explore the connection between trees and sound further still, Caroline has instigated the forging of a ceremonial Tree Charter Bell.
This is now being rung at tree planting events as part of the Woodland Trust’s campaign to build a mass movement of people dedicated to safeguarding trees.
Caroline played a key role in discussions which led Nottingham City Council to sign the Trust’s Tree Charter and, via a live webinar with the Arboricultural Association, she shared her research with viewers in 29 countries.
Other collaborations with the Scott Polar Institute, the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Mixed Reality Laboratory have seen her capturing climate data – such as the rate of Arctic sea ice melting – to control various sound and light devices within her interactive sculptures.
Paula McCloskey is equally committed to making environmental issues accessible to wider audiences.
Myths for a Wetlands Imaginary, a project commissioned by Arts Catalyst during her residency at Walthamstow Wetlands Centre, brought together scientists, artists and residents to raise greater awareness of the value of wetland spaces and their vulnerable ecosystems.
Culminating in a site-specific participatory performance, a digital mapping workshop, a story-telling workshop, a film and a multi-media installation, it was hailed by Thames Water as an original and effective way of strengthening public messages about sustainability.
Paula has also worked closely with contemporary arts organisation Arts Catalyst to research resource extraction and activism, developing her findings into a performance walk titled Geopower.
Including a focus on the ‘Battle of Orgreave’ which took place during the miners’ strike in 1984, the initiative was inspired by the experiences of community activists in campaigning against pit closures, fracking and injustice.
Arts Catalyst praised Geopower for its impact in sparking informed conversations about complex, nuanced issues and its success was debated in an online event run by the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign, which attracted over 3,200 views.
Through unique public engagement methods like these, the University is playing a pivotal role in encouraging diverse communities to envision positive futures in response to climate change.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/distributed-data-stream-analytics:
Researchers at the University of Derby have pioneered new ways of extracting information from massive datasets in real time – applying their expertise to everything from physics experiments at CERN’s Large Hadron Collider to railway maintenance and virtual reality solutions for engineering.
The work is spearheaded by the University’s Data Science Research Centre which has harnessed Distributed Data-Stream Analytics (DDSA) to help a range of partner organisations to fine-tune and expand their own research or to develop new commercial products and services.
The DDSA solution can reduce both network bandwidth requirements and platform costs - making maximum use of the computing resources available so that networks can respond to tasks and queries in real time.
It adds up to smarter decision-making for organisations, enabling them to gain minute-by-minute business insights, uncover hidden patterns in data, spot opportunities and risks, and boost their competitiveness.
The full potential of these advances in data science has been showcased through a prestigious collaboration with CERN, the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, where the University has contributed its expertise in high-performance analytics to the A Large Ion Collider Experiment (ALICE) collaboration.
The automatic analysis of complex data sets is a challenge for massive physics experiments of this kind but the team has successfully applied scalable machine learning and statistical models to the huge amounts of data that ALICE is producing.
The new system will be used in the ALICE experiment when the large hadron collider resumes operation in 2021/2.
Initial testing has shown an increase in the data acquisition rate from 2.5 GB per second to 4 TB per second.
The final data output is expected to increase by a factor of 10,000.
The University’s research in the field has brought equally significant benefits for SMEs working in diverse sectors.
In a partnership with Bloc Digital, an agency which develops augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR) hardware for industrial applications, the team applied DDSA to produce high-performance real-time visualisations of engineering models.
This process could see the cost of premium industrial AR and VR solutions reduce from £200k to around £35k.
DDSA has also paved the way for innovation in the rail industry.
The University has worked with rail companies to help them exploit the Internet of Things (IoT) and high-performance data analytics, extracting maximum value from the information they gather.
This has included a collaboration with Fishbone Solutions, an engineering and commercial consultancy for the transport sector, allowing them to improve their data analytics ecosystem through DDSA.
It has led to more efficient predictive maintenance regimes for trains, reducing the amount of time operations have to be halted.
As a result, Fishbone Solutions has been able to bring a new product suite of equipment monitoring systems to market.
For all its partner organisations, the University’s data science expertise has delivered minute-by-minute business and research insights, enabling them to uncover hidden patterns in data, spot opportunities and risks, boost efficiency and ultimately achieve smarter decision-making.
Data is all around us.
Our Data Science Research Centre is exploring pioneering ways to manage, process, analyse and obtain intelligence from this data for maximum impact.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/young-people-send-inclusion:
Policies and practices to improve the social and educational inclusion of children and young people with SENDs have been shaped by landmark research undertaken by experts in the University of Derby’s Institute of Education.
A team of inclusion and SEND specialists has provided fresh insights into ways of ensuring more independent futures for this group of learners.
Their high-profile work, including nine externally funded projects, has underpinned national policy in education, health and care planning and contributed to improved leadership and attainment levels in Derby’s schools.
The University, with IFF Research, was commissioned by the Department for Education (DfE) to complete what remains the largest-scale account of the impact of major reforms to SEND policy ushered in by the 2014 Children and Families Act.
With a survey that attracted 13,000 responses, the team investigated service users’ experiences of Education, Health and Care (EHC) plans which are designed for children and young people whose special educational needs require more help than would normally be provided in mainstream settings.
The DfE subsequently asked the team to conduct further qualitative research into the issues highlighted by the survey.
The findings shed invaluable light on the effectiveness of EHC plans as a route to independent adulthood for over 230,000 young people with SENDs.
They helped strengthen elements of the DfE’s approach and have been widely used by Brian Lamb OBE – who led a landmark inquiry into parental confidence in the SEND system – and other government advisers to share good practice with local authorities and other agencies.
Schools in Derby have also benefited extensively from the team’s research expertise.
The Derby Opportunity Area Board commissioned the University to undertake a 30-month research and development project which helped 66 mainstream schools to improve their inclusion practices for learners with SENDs.
The team, working in partnership with schools and local leaders, devised innovative activities – including action research, peer review, an annual conference and a network for Special Educational Needs Co-ordinators (SENCos) – to enhance assessment practice, teaching, learning and leadership.
The schools which took part were more likely than others to report a fall in the number of pupil exclusions and the City Council concluded that the positive influence on school culture had led to improved attainment levels, such as a 21% rise in Year 1 pupils meeting the phonics standards.
Such was the impact of the research that the Opportunity Area Board granted the University further funding to deliver training for SENCos.
The UK’s largest children’s reading charity, BookTrust, also commissioned the team to investigate how books can support social inclusion, development and wellbeing for young people with SENDs.
The findings illustrated the profound importance of books to a group who may never read or write for themselves and reinforced calls for policy-makers to recognise them as relevant, literate citizens.
As a result, BookTrust changed its school library packs and the research team has delivered inclusive literacy training for the charity’s staff and for early years practitioners.
The University’s research has filled significant gaps in knowledge about how the needs of children and young people with SENDs – and their families – can be better served in future by statutory services, school leaders and charitable organisations.
Special Educational Needs and Disability and Inclusive Practice is an area of central importance we pursue research and development work with a wide range of partners.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/metal-3d-printing-additive-manufacturing:
Major research projects undertaken by the University of Derby have showcased the potential of metal 3D printing (3DP) to revolutionise manufacturing processes and deliver a competitive advantage to business.
Research partnerships with the University’s Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering (IISE), have led to engineering, rail and utility companies developing 3DP applications that reduce the time, expense and environmental waste involved in maintenance operations and the development of new products.
In a project which is the first of its kind for the utilities sector, researchers from the IISE applied a metal 3DP workflow to remanufacture obsolete parts for the ageing infrastructure of the UK’s gas transmission grid.
Unexpected failures in the 12,000 km of gas pipeline can cause outages but traditional fabrication methods used to replace asset parts involve huge costs.
The team worked with engineering consultancy Premtech Ltd and the National Grid to develop 3DP as an on-demand solution which is fit for purpose and right first time for this highly regulated industry.
They harnessed latest digital-based manufacturing methods to cover all stages of the process – from design specification to quality assurance – and demonstrated its success in addressing incidents such as the failure of large pressure pipe fittings in a compressor station.
The 3DP staged workflow, together with an instructive dashboard-based decision tool, has now been embedded in practices at Premtech and the National Grid to ensure reliable business-as-usual operations.
The research has proved that metal 3DP is equally effective in fabricating complex aircraft engine components in a superalloy to improve new engine development programmes.
Traditionally, the cost and time involved in manufacturing one-off engine test rigs – via methods such as precision CNC machining from solid stock – means that firms have very limited opportunities to appraise new engine designs.
Working with suppliers of prototype engine test rigs, the IISE team developed and demonstrated alternative approaches which reduce the risks and uncertainties associated with research and development in companies.
In one example, they used 3DP to manufacture a complex compressor component: a process that would normally take up to ten weeks of machine time at a cost of up to £40,000.
The research team’s 3DP method resulted in cost and time savings of more than 50%.
The environmental benefits are compelling too: the research showed that the metal powder stock used in 3DP generates just 5% of CO2 emissions and a waste stream of less than 10% in comparison with that produced from solid stock.
The team’s advances in 3DP have been shared widely to fill skills gaps.
Over 50 SMEs from across the East Midlands have taken part in IISE workshops, with surveys indicating that around half of the participants had been able to progress new technologies, products and services towards market as a result.
Some of the firms involved in the 3DP projects have since been able to create new jobs.
IISE also is the only UK participant in a Europe-wide forum originally initiated by Siemens Rail to explore the potential of 3DP in replacing ageing rolling stock.
As interest in the capability of 3DP has spread into sectors beyond engineering, such as healthcare, the IISE’s expertise has provided invaluable insights for firms which are now integrating this rapidly evolving technology into their business.
View Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering video transcript
The Institute focuses on sustainable engineering solutions across various business sectors.
We aim to stimulate regional innovation in design, manufacturing, product lifecycle management and the application of new and smart materials.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/edge-computing-rds-black-box:
An innovative partnership between researchers at the University of Derby and leading IT services company RDS Global delivered a data management system which has enabled many organisations to operate more effectively amid the challenges of the pandemic.
In what is thought to be the first project of its kind, the University’s research underpinned the development of the RDS Black Box, a unique solution that allows data feeds from multiple sources and platforms to be brought together in a comprehensive management information system.
It provides a real-time dashboard that businesses can use to enhance their customer service, reduce costs and correct the errors often associated with disjointed systems.
During 2020 the Black Box was adapted to feature in devices which have helped hospitality and retail organisations to provide additional safety measures and peace of mind for visitors and staff entering their premises.
The development draws upon the University’s strong track record in harnessing edge computing and data science to solve real-world problems in industry.
Edge computing can ensure greater efficiency and speed because it captures, stores and processes data at the edge of the network or device where it has been generated and where it is needed, instead of in a centralised data processing warehouse.
The research team took a pioneering approach by incorporating a novel deep learning – or artificial intelligence – technique in a fully decentralised edge environment to support more effective, timely decision-making.
This approach can potentially be applied to millions of industrial Internet of Things (IoT) devices without the need for dedicated high-performance servers.
The partnership with RDS dates back to 2015 when the company secured finance through the University’s Regional Growth Fund (RGF) -funded Invest to Grow programme to purchase new premises for the development of an integrated fleet management system.
In 2019, the collaboration was taken a step further through the Black Box research, funded by an Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) grant and supported by research staff at the University.
The innovative solutions generated by the research have provided a new revenue and profit stream for RDS, allowing it to expand its services into sectors beyond IT while creating new jobs.
A number of third-party organisations have purchased and adopted the system.
As a result – in a year when many companies reported losses due to the pandemic – the Black Box generated additional income of £160,000 for the company and reduced its systems costs by £16,000.
With the emergence of Covid-19, the research team worked with the company to refine the original Black Box concept further to help hospitality, retail and leisure venues to re-open during periods when lockdown restrictions were eased.
Sited at venue entrances, Black Box stations can provide hand sanitiser, temperature monitoring, ID card or facial recognition, access control, and collection of track-and-trace data.
For employees, visitors and customers, the system provides reassurance that robust safety measures are in place.
For businesses, it delivers real-time information – via online reports and dashboards – so that alerts can be raised, PPE usage can be monitored and sanitiser re-fills can be ordered.
In just one example, Derby Museums Trust used the Black Box as an efficient way to check temperatures and dispense sanitiser at its entrances, allowing it to open its doors during the summer when other cultural attractions remained shut.
With more processing power and storage supplements set to improve IoT and mobile devices in future, the University’s research is at the forefront of the latest developments, showing how innovative applications of edge computing can give businesses a strategic advantage.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/irish-diasporas:
Research at the University of Derby has given a voice to Irish diasporic communities through award-winning creative projects including broadcasts, films, exhibitions, publications, oral history and public readings.
Drs Daithí McMahon and Moy McCrory, specialists in creative writing and media research, have rediscovered half-forgotten stories and brought the experiences of first- and second-generation immigrants spanning the past 120 years to a broader public audience.
Their work sheds fresh light on Irish emigration that was driven by economic hardship at home and the lure of work opportunities in post-war Britain.
It chronicles how chain migration and established host communities in Britain have provided a setting for emigrants to establish new roots while maintaining connections to their Irish heritage.
It also addresses themes that have not been investigated before, such as how Irish expatriates connect and re-affirm their identity via Facebook and the social attitudes towards mourning and female public expressions of grief in diasporic communities.
Dr McMahon challenged common perceptions of Irish immigrants with his critically acclaimed radio drama, William Melville: Eve of War.
The programme spotlighted the career of Melville (1850-1918), an Irish immigrant who became the first chief of the British Secret Service Bureau but whose achievements had largely gone unrecognised.
Commissioned and funded by the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland, it was broadcast by Radio Kerry and reached an audience of around 33,000 listeners per broadcast.
It became one of the most celebrated radio productions internationally in 2016, winning Silver for best writing at the prestigious New York Festivals International Radio Programme Awards and being nominated among 231 qualifying entries from 35 countries in the Prix Europa broadcasting festival.
Both entailed peer adjudication by radio industry leaders and the programme was applauded for its historical accuracy based on high-quality research.
Dr McMahon extended his research by capturing the personal experiences of first-generation Irish emigrants in Our Story, a four-minute film unveiled at Derby’s FORMAT international photography festival.
He went on to produce a 26-minute version which was shared online as part of the To Be Irish festival.
Ireland’s Department of Foreign Affairs praised the project as a new way of connecting with the increasingly diverse global Irish, including non-traditional diasporas and young emigrants.
Dr McCrory’s research, meanwhile, has explored how Britain’s second-generation Irish community has often been rendered invisible, excluded and silenced.
Her focus is on the ways in which this community uses its creativity to maintain connections with home, especially through narratives that blend fact and fiction as a compelling way of conveying experience and shaping identity.
She co-edited the ground-breaking anthology of fiction, poetry and essays – I Wouldn’t Start From Here: The Second Generation Irish in Britain – which was the first to showcase the experiences of second-generation Irish writers.
The Irish Literary Society hailed the publication as “vital” in demonstrating how diaspora narratives inform a sense of identity while the Irish Times review described Dr McCrory’s own chapter within the anthology as “excellent”.
Live public readings and launch events in various cities brought I Wouldn’t Start From Here to the attention of the wider public: a live streamed launch at Derby’s QUAD arts centre attracted an 80-strong audience.
Overall, the University of Derby’s research has played its part in fostering greater respect, understanding and appreciation for the rich and diverse multicultural and multi-ethnic make-up of UK society today.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/andy-pringle:
However, from a stuttering start, he is now our Professor in Physical Activity and Health Intervention, and Research Lead in the Department of Sport, Outdoor and Exercise Science.
And he has shaped the UK’s national guidelines on physical activity.
In 1985, a time where nearly four million were unemployed, Andy left his school in Northumberland at 16 with a handful of CSEs (forerunners of today’s GSCEs).
He was then unsuccessful in the selection process for a job at British Rail, and an engineering youth training scheme didn’t work out.
So, he returned to school as he’d left it not sure which way to turn.
With the help of some inspiring teachers, Mr Jenkins and Mrs Maitland, he restarted his education with a BTEC Certificate in Pre-vocational Education.
And he followed this with a BTEC in Leisure Studies at Technical College.
It was from here that Andy could see his journey taking a direction he had never thought was possible – studying for a degree.
In 1988, he started a BA (Hons) in Sport and Recreation at Staffordshire Polytechnic (now Staffordshire University).
He was the first member of his family to go on to higher education.
He says: “I was very grateful to get my chance to study for a degree, it was an important opportunity to improve my life prospects.
And few working-class kids went to university”.
From thinking university would never be possible for him, Andy then went on to undertake a Postgraduate Diploma in Health Education at the Victoria University of Manchester, a postgraduate diploma in Management Studies from the University of Teesside and a master's degree in Health Promotion at Leeds Metropolitan University.
It was his master’s dissertation that led to his first steps into research as he investigated the effectiveness of GP Exercise Referral Schemes.
His research journey had begun.
He then worked as a Health Promotion Specialist for the NHS for five years.
But his links with academia continued as he taught on the Health Promotion module at the University of Sunderland as a Visiting Lecturer.
It was Andy’s first teaching job - and he loved it.
So, he jumped at the opportunity to take up a full-time role as a Senior Lecturer in Physical Activity and Health back at Leeds Metropolitan University.
Research was also a part of Andy’s role, and he led the National Evaluation of the Local Exercise Action Pilots (LEAP) for the Department of Health and Sport England.
This became a significant development in physical activity interventions with the research informing public health policy.
After three and a half years, the findings of this research were published in 2007 and Andy presented them in front of 350 people at Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium.
This was his career-defining moment – research was where he wanted to be.
He was hooked.
By 2011, he had completed a PhD that focused on the LEAP evaluation and was getting involved in more and more research projects.
In 2012, Andy became a Reader at Leeds Metropolitan University, where his role was largely research including being part of the NICE Guidelines on Exercise Referral.
Leaving school with only a few qualifications in 1985 is an amazing achievement that no one would have expected.
I was lucky to have a couple of teachers who helped get me on track when I returned to school, and I am very grateful for the faith they showed
In 2018, after a very competitive selection process, a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity began for Andy.
He was selected to work on the UK Chief Medical Officer’s (CMO) guidelines on physical activity.
These guidelines are an important part of the UK policy and act as a guide for professional promotion of physical activity to people.
Andy was part of the Expert Working Group on the Implementation and Surveillance of the CMO guidelines.
The Expert Working team reviewed the latest evidence and made recommendations for the communication of the guidelines to people ranging from the parents of early years children to older adults and people with sedentary behaviour.
This was the first time the UK team, or any other international team, had looked at the communication of the physical activity guidelines.
For Andy, being a part of this process was such a big step in his career.
It is definitely one of his proudest moments.
Andy also led on a national evaluation of how Premier League football club community trusts promoted men’s health and how football charities and foundations could invest in such interventions.
The research outputs have been cited over 450 times by researchers from 17 different countries.
After 23 years of university teaching, leadership and research, Andy’s ultimate goal was to progress to Professor.
He joined the University of Derby as an Associate Professor in 2019 and, in 2021, he was confirmed a Professor.
Andy’s research projects at Derby are focused primarily on the impact and implementation of physical activity.
His most recent output, working with external colleagues Dr Nicky Kime and Dr Steve Zwolinsky, evaluates “the impact and implementation of a leading UK multi-disciplinary childhood diabetes service from the perspective of the families and healthcare professionals”.
Along with Dr Clare Roscoe, our Associate Professor in Physical Activity, Nutrition and Health, he has worked with the charitable organisation Notts County Foundation, of which he is a trustee.
Their research investigates the impact of CARE, a Cancer and Rehabilitation Exercise programme for people living with and beyond cancer.
Andy says: “The opportunity to learn how CARE has helped people has been a great privilege.
Our findings have been used to shape commissioning decisions and help make the case for resources to sustain the programme.”
Andy also supervises several PhD students who are investigating the impact and implementation of physical activity interventions including cancer, and dementia, as well as the role of healthcare professionals in promoting physical activity.
He says: “I work with some amazing colleagues and students in Sport and Exercise.
I work with a School Leadership Team who trust me to get on and lead research in sport, exercise, and physical activity.”
Andy is a Professor of Physical Activity and Health.
He undertakes teaching, research and PhD supervision in the area of impact and implementation of physical activity interventions for health improvement.
Andy is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Public Health and a NICE Guidelines Implementation Expert.
He was involved in the 2019 Chief Medical Officers' PA Guidelines.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/oliver-godsmark:
A trip to India opened up Oliver Godsmark’s eyes to the power of research - and a potential new career path.
Oliver is now a Senior Lecturer in History, a Programme Leader for MA History and a researcher in our Identity, Culture and Representation research centre.
And his research now informs many of the modules in our History programme.
Oliver grew up in the multicultural city of Leicester.
He soon developed an interest in History, particularly in South Asian cultures and societies.
This was because he had so many close friends who came from a South Asian background.
He says: “As a child, conversations with these friends and their parents helped generate an interest.”
Oliver was further introduced to South Asian history during secondary school, which created a moment of awakening.
He was eager to explore history at university.
University was always a goal for Oliver, although he was the first in his family to go.
He enjoyed education and he was excited to dive straight into his history degree.
He studied BA in History, MA in Modern History and completed his PhD (History) all at the University of Leeds.
It was during his masters degree that Oliver had the opportunity to travel to India.
The idea of a trip to India was in the hope Oliver could use collected materials to support his dissertation.
After receiving funding from the Royal Historical Society (RHS), Oliver went to India for two weeks in 2009 and spent his time in Mumbai and New Delhi undertaking his archival research.
This trip to India sparked a passion for research that Oliver didn’t know he had.
Engaging with documents from the 1940s-50s gave Oliver a feel for Indian politics, culture and society in this period of time.
This was just a starting point for Oliver and his research.
He says: “What really got me into research was the opportunity to go to India as part of my master’s degree, during which time I visited archives in Delhi and Mumbai.
I was fortunate enough to return for six months whilst completing my doctoral research.”
Ultimately, Oliver went back to India to conduct more research in the archives for his doctoral research and thesis.
For this trip, he received funding from the RHS, the Economic History Society, and the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, as well as his PhD scholarship from the University of Leeds.
It is here that Oliver started writing his book which is his proudest achievement throughout his research career.
His book ‘Citizenship, Community and Democracy in India’ was published in 2018, and he was excited to share it with interested audiences.
It isn’t a surprise that Oliver has been back to India multiple times since his first research project.
Going to India and using the archives there can definitely stimulate new research ideas for the potential future, and many more trips are to come.
Oliver joined the University of Derby as a Senior Lecturer in History in 2019 and soon became the Programme Lead for MA History.
Teaching in higher education offers Oliver the opportunity to discuss and debate key ideas, controversies, and issues in history.
This is something Oliver has always enjoyed doing.
He says: “I’m passionate about getting young people interested in history, particularly those who traditionally might not have had the opportunity to engage with history in a higher educational context.”
In 2020, the undergraduate History programme was revalidated to incorporate more global history and global perspectives.
This provides our students with greater opportunities to engage.
Oliver was able to include his own research and knowledge into many modules throughout this programme.
His articles and his book are featured in the reading list.
Oliver says "I want to teach to help demonstrate the value and impact of doing a history degree for a whole variety of jobs and professions.
This can be in relation to the analytical, critical, communication skills that a history degree provides, or a wider sense of historical literacy that comes from undergraduate study and can help us more effectively understand our contemporary world.”
Oliver has developed a strong relationship with Derby Museum.
This was supported by the University's Impact Accelerator Fund.
Derby Museum is keen to gather information and expertise relating to South Asian, imperial and global histories.
Oliver provides his input and knowledge to the museum and leads workshops with Museum Volunteers and Visitor Experience Assistants (VEAs).
He says: “I like to see my engagement with public audiences as a more dialogic process, whereby it is through conversations with interested parties that I can work out the impact of my work”
Opportunities are also created for our students to get involved in museum interpretation through the labelling of objects within collections.
Oliver hopes to use his relationship with Derby Museum as a model for other museums and institutions to get involved in this work.
Currently, Oliver is working on an article about the South Asian community in the Midlands.
He wants to understand how relations between China and India in the 60s helped impact and shape their domestic politics and actions.
It is very early in the process of this research project, so the impact outcomes are yet to be found.
However, Oliver is hoping to show the links between local and global history in this context.
He also wants to contribute to new readings of decolonisation and the Cold War during this period.
Exploring this also opens up a number of future avenues that Oliver could take his research through, as they relate to British and diasporic histories.
With this, he can develop his current knowledge and share it through his workshops.
Oliver is keen to explore more of how local places can be seen as nodal points connected to larger global themes and processes throughout history.
Oliver’s journey into research has shown that research doesn’t always have to be a career goal from the outset.
A spark of interest can happen when you are least expecting it.
Dr Oliver Godsmark is Senior Lecturer in History with an interest in colonialism, South Asia and India’s partition.
His research focuses on citizenship and democracy, caste and tribe, and the South Asian diaspora.
Experienced in public-facing history, he teaches across the undergraduate History programme, and is the programme leader for MA History.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/yusra-siddiqui:
Yusra Siddiqui’s research journey has been nothing short of inspiring.
From growing up in Dubai aspiring to be an army doctor in Pakistan to completing her PhD in cancer research – inspired by her mother, a cancer survivor – to establishing her own company through the Covid-19 pandemic.
And now she is teaching our Biomedical Science students while continuing her research.
Yusra’s parents always encouraged her to study, excel and achieve her dreams.
She became the first member of her family to go to university, studying Zoology, Botany and Chemistry at the University of Punjab in Lahore.
After completing her undergraduate degree, Yusra went on to do a Masters and an MPhil in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
She moved to the UK shortly after this, completing her PhD in Biochemistry at the University of Bristol in 2015.
Out of everything in her research career so far, Yusra is most proud of her PhD – not least because of the personal perspective.
She says: “My research interests have been in understanding the spread of cancer, and how to stop this, at the molecular level.
I have been mainly working with prostate and breast cancer, but also briefly focused on melanoma during my first post-doc.”
That first post-doctoral position was at the Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.
She then moved to Poland when her husband secured his own post-doctoral position there and she took up a role as Research Technician at the Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology in Warsaw.
The family returned to Pakistan – now with two children – and Yusra had her first higher education teaching experience in 2019 in the Department of Biotechnology as a Lecturer.
She led the module in Analytical Chemistry and Instrumentation.
As a module leader and researcher, I aspired for my students to write research papers, and a team of six undergrad students under my supervision published their own papers in latest areas of research.
Yusra and her family moved back to the UK in August 2019 and, after her first experience as a lecturer, she knew where she wanted her career to go.
However, the Covid-19 pandemic put a halt to her search for a job in higher education.
But she had, in the meantime, built up experience as a tutor for students from GCSE up to postgraduate level and this inspired her to set up her own online tutoring company, SS Tutor , with her sister.
The company is still going strong.
Yusra secured a position as an Early Career Academic (ECA) in Biomedical Sciences at the University of Derby in August 2021.
With this, she developed her research profile in 'understanding the molecular events underlying prostate cancer progression'.
She collaborated internally and externally with various groups, to help develop her proposal.
During her time as an ECA, Yusra received help from the University through a Personal Development Fund (PDF) and also secured start-up funding from the Sustaining University Research Expertise (SURE) fund.
She is using this to establish pilot data in the lab, with a good network of external collaborators, to promote further opportunities for her research.
In May 2022, Yusra was promoted to Lecturer in Biomedical Science.
She says: “I have always done research-informed teaching, and the students love the practical experience of things.
From taking my students to visit and see state-of-the-art instruments in research centres that they were theoretically learning about, to designing problem-based practical sessions, I have always tried to give a researcher's experience to students.
The students love this and enjoy it, most understand concepts better, and it makes them more aware of such situations.”
In August 2022, Yusra was also awarded a Fellowship from the Higher Education Academy (FHEA) due to her claim on research-informed teaching.
Yusra’s research interests lie in understanding the molecular events underlying prostate cancer progression.
Her major current research looks at the link of prostate cancer progression to risk factors such as sexually transmitted infections (STIs), especially the human papillomavirus (HPV), the most common STI.
In June 2022, Yusra presented her project plan on ‘Investigating how human papillomaviruses (HPVs) affect prostate cancer progression’ at a European Association for Cancer Research Conference in Spain.
Here, she met a lot of other cancer researchers and industrial sponsors who supported her with ideas on how to proceed with her project.
With the project still at initial stages, Yusra can only guess at its impact.
However, she says: “It would directly feed into the gender-neutral vaccination programme.”
Through a long journey across the world, Yusra always had sight and the ambition to become a researcher.
Now she has achieved this, her aspirations and goals are only growing stronger, from wanting to establish her own research lab to gaining external clinical collaborations.
Beyond her own biomedical research, Yusra has been collaborating with Professor Ian Turner, Professor in Learning and Teaching, on ‘Working towards a culturally sensitive curriculum’.
This work is based on understanding any changes in perceptions students may have when an attempt is made to decolonise their curriculum.
Decolonising means looking beyond Western framing and examining how imperialism, colonialism and power have influenced the narrative.
Yusra explains: “Decolonising the curriculum entails providing the platforms and tools necessary for a dialogue among all university personnel about how to imagine and incorporate all knowledge systems, including cultural ones, into the course material as well as how the material is taught and how it frames the world.”
Yusra is also keen on introducing digital interventions in her teaching practice and is working on introducing inclusive assessment design in BioScience Education.
As a module leader for foundation-level students, she is also researching in addressing the awarding gap issue and working towards improving student performance.
As an Early Career Academic, Dr Siddiqui is developing herself as an independent researcher in understanding molecular events in prostate cancer progression.
She is also an HE lecturer with international experience in a wide array of biomedical modules.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/aaisha-makkar:
Real-life problems have always been at the heart of Aaisha Makkar’s research: from the way internet search engines serve you information, to how your data is used within the NHS – and the difficulties of getting a GP appointment.
Aaisha began her academic career teaching database management systems as an Assistant Professor at the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra, India.
It was where she had completed her master's after finishing her undergraduate degree at Mehr Chand Mahajan Dav College for Women.
Though she enjoyed teaching, Aaisha wanted to keep pushing her career forwards in research and began a PhD in Cyber Security at Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, India in 2016.
And her subject matter relates to something many people use every day – web browsers and, more specifically, web searches.
Her motivation was to improve search engine results pages by detecting “spam” web pages in her project - An Efficient Spammer Classification for Ranking of Web Pages.
She explains: “Everyone uses web browsers in their day-to-day life, but we never get authentic results.
I considered Google’s methodology of how webpages are ranked and eventually my findings outlined the research gaps.”
While working on her PhD, Aaisha started to write a book based on her research.
It focuses on cyber security using techniques of artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things (IoT) – which relates to how all digital objects connect.
Her book ‘ Machine Learning in Cognitive IoT ’, was published by Taylor & Francis.
She also published many articles during this time.
After submitting her PhD, Aaisha realised she could go further with her research and education and started to look for a post-doctorate position.
And one of her articles led directly to her next role.
She was contacted by a professor at the Seoul National University of Science and Technology, South Korea.
They were really interested in her work and were keen to work with her.
Aaisha says: “I applied because I was looking for opportunities and, after three rounds of interviews, I was successful.
It was a beautiful country and I got so much exposure there.
It was very advanced, and everything was fantastic there – a driverless car even came to pick me up!
It was a great journey in my life.”
The year-long project focused on Cyber Security and provided security for automated systems.
It was funded by the National Research Foundation of Korea.
Aaisha helped the team design an algorithm to enhance cyber security for cyber-physical systems (a computer system in which the mechanism is controlled or monitored by computer-based algorithms).
It was recognised academically by a number of universities.
I’m proud to be a part of this project.
I have achieved a lot from there in terms of knowledge and articles, and it has also helped me to grow.
Every year of my research career is full of achievements.
Aaisha then joined us at the University of Derby as Lecturer in Computer Science in the College of Science and Engineering.
However, after moving to the UK, she soon faced another real-life problem.
She explains: “In the first month of moving to the UK, I struggled to get in contact with a GP.
I either couldn’t get an appointment or had to wait until first thing in the morning to ring up, so a major gap was found.
There is nothing wrong with the healthcare sector, just the synchronisation of data and how the data is being manipulated.
Data is very crucial in this sector.”
Aaisha was eager to find out the different research gaps in this sector.
She met Professor Myra Conway, Professor of Biomedical Science and our Theme Lead of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, at one of her Inaugural Lectures.
They both discussed this problem and the effect it has on older people.
Aaisha says: “Sometimes when older people call on 111 [the NHS urgent healthcare hotlline], the conversation is too long so they are unable to find out what they need to do or sometimes they urgently need to talk to a doctor but do not get the chance to.
This is a gap that Myra and myself identified and we are hoping to offer a solution to the NHS which will help improve their services.”
Aaisha and Myra are now working closely with a postgraduate research student who is focusing on federating learning in the healthcare sector through a studentship – a funded MPhil/PhD.
Federated learning means allowing multiple digital systems to synchronise their data.
The research is looking to create a robust federated learning model that addresses statistical obstacles, system challenges, and privacy issues in healthcare data, as well as the implications and potentials in this field.
“Whatever I have learnt in data science, I am applying it in real-world problems like the NHS.
Anything I have proposed, I have developed from scratch only.
Now, we are realising the different gaps and various domains in the real world like health care and defence, and it is becoming more appropriate to say that data is everywhere, so there is a demand for these two domains - data science and cyber security – so I’m trying to dedicate my research to these applications to understand more.”
Aaisha is always encouraged by her fellow professors who recognise her work.
This gives her the motivation to pursue new research project proposals.
She says: “It doesn’t matter where you are from.
I got the opportunity, and I had the skills.
Research is like a passion, if you start working over it and work towards solving real-life problems, it will give you a position, which is remarkable.”
And these same sentiments motivate her teaching.
She says: “I am teaching more and more international students in our department, so surprisingly everybody blinks their eyes when they see an Indian woman standing there as a lecturer.
I wanted to make the students realise that your nationality or colour doesn’t make a difference in what is practised at the University of Derby.”

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/charlie-whiffin:
Dr Charlie Whiffin is an Associate Professor of Nursing.
She is carrying out important work on how Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) affects families.
Her journey began when she was working as a care assistant in a nursing home.
The nursing home job changed Charlie’s outlook completely.
She explains: “I realised how much I loved working so closely with people and how rewarding it was to be able to make a difference to people’s lives.
I applied for an undergraduate nursing degree at Liverpool John Moores and never looked back.”
Then, as a registered adult nurse, Charlie stepped into the field of neurosurgery and quickly became concerned with the trauma families experience after a relative’s Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI).
As she progressed into higher education as a lecturer, delivering pre-registration nursing education, Charlie's interest in families experiencing TBI remained.
She loved her student-facing role, but her frustration at the lack of support for families drove her to embark on a PhD.
Charlie studied her PhD on the family experience of TBI in her first year at the University of Southampton, under the expert supervision of Dr Chris Bailey, Dr Caroline Ellis-Hill, Dr Nicki Jarret and Professor Peter Hutchinson.
The study demonstrated the trauma, suffering and personal changes families themselves faced after TBI.
It was after the PhD was completed that Charlie was able to collaborate with leading experts Dr Fergus Gracey and Dr Caroline Ellis-Hill to complete a meta-synthesis about the experiences of families following TBI which was published in the leading nursing journal ‘The International Journal of Nursing Studies’.
This was instrumental in catapulting Charlie’s career and confidence.
She explains: “I am most proud of the meta-synthesis on the family experience of traumatic brain injury for a number of reasons.
The study was really hard, locating, analysing and synthesising all the qualitative research but it was also creative, thought-provoking and engaging.
Feedback from reviewers was also very generous saying the paper had the potential to make a profound impact in practice.”
From there, still fuelled by the feeling that more could be done and a desire for a more research-centred role, Charlie reached out to people to explore new opportunities for mentoring and research projects with other leading researchers in her field.
It was at this point that Charlie took the next step in her career.
With an opportunity to work in the National Institute for Health and Social Care Research (NIHR) Global Health Research Group on Neurotrauma at the University of Cambridge, Charlie grabbed it with both hands.
Charlie was then a co-applicant for the subsequent NIHR Global Health Research Group on Acquired Brain and Spine Injury and is the lead for Community Engagement and Involvement.
Charlie’s research throughout her career has always been focused on giving families the best possible support and it has led to the founding of Anchor Point.
Anchor Point is a national association that aims to make a difference in the lives of families following brain injury by driving change.
Charlie founded Anchor Point in 2020 and recently the group responded to the Government’s call for evidence for their Acquired Brain Injury strategy with their message of the need for family-centred approaches and appropriate, resourced, family support.
Inspired by the importance of the work around supporting families following a relative’s TBI, Charlie is involved in Doctoral studies ranging from communication with families at discharge following brain injury, technology-led solutions to long-term follow-up after TBI in Low- and Middle- Income Countries (LMIC), carer needs and the Care Act, the lived experience of sub-arachnoid haemorrhage and the competing demands of nurses providing curative and palliative care.
Charlie is also now preparing her own studies including an investigation of the role of nurses and allied health professionals in delivering safe and effective neurosurgical care in LMICs and the use of a specific approach to narrative storytelling to support family members make sense of TBI.
This latter study received £140,000 from the NIHR Research for Patient Benefit Funding and will involve, alongside Charlie, researchers Dr Fergus Gracey (University of East Anglia), Dr Caroline Ellis-Hill (Bournemouth University) and Dr Alyson Norman (University of Plymouth).
The project will help families tell their own stories of TBI and the impact it has had on them.
The researchers and two family members who have helped shape the project will start to deliver it in March 2023 for 18 months.
Charlie’s transition from a discipline such as nursing, which doesn’t historically have a strong research foundation, combined with the teaching load in pre-registration programmes makes her research journey inspiring.
It has taken huge determination, resilience and commitment.
With Charlie’s recent promotion to Association Professor (Research), she has shown that a research pathway for a nursing academic is possible and hopes that she encourages others to follow.
Charlie's specialist interest area is the impact of acquired brain injury on the family.
Charlie is currently examining the potential for storytelling techniques to improve family well-being and adjustment.
Charlie is also investigating the role of non-medical providers in the provision of safe effective neurosurgical care in low-and middle-income countries.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/themes/innovation-and-research-podcast:
The Innovation and Research podcast series from the University of Derby will bring you engaging and inspiring stories from across our research landscape, exploring how we are shaping tomorrow, today.
We talk to a selection of guests to explore their area of research, providing key insights into their expertise, giving you the opportunity to learn something new.
Across the series, we explore how, through our research and academic strength, we are developing innovative solutions to combat the most prevalent challenges we face as a society – here and around the world.
In this episode of 'For a Better Tomorrow', the University of Derby's Innovation and Research podcast, we talk to Associate Professor, Dr Yoon Irons , about the importance of singing.
Dr Irons is passionate about singing and is researching the ways in which it can positively benefit us.
View Why is singing good for you?
In this episode of 'For a Better Tomorrow', the University of Derby's Innovation and Research podcast, we chat with Professor Myra Conway about Alzheimer's Disease.
Professor Conway explains the importance of both brain and body health in the context of Alzheimer's Disease.
View How can proteins help combat the onset of Alzheimer’s?
In this episode of 'For a Better Tomorrow', the University of Derby's Innovation and Research podcast, we talk to Professor Keith McLay , Provost Learning and Teaching, about history.
Professor McLay considers the Jacobite's decision to retreat might have been more than just a military decision.
View How can analysis of events from the past inform our current decision-making?
In this episode of 'For a Better Tomorrow', the University of Derby's Innovation and Research podcast, we talk to Professor Farid Meziane about data science.
Professor Meziane explains how data science can be used to support our colleagues in the healthcare sector such as radiologists.
View How can we use computers to help us understand the world?
Climate change is a big topic in society at the moment and switching to a zero carbon way of living is one of the ways that can help our planet.
But what does that really mean?
In this episode, we talk about mirrors and the sun with Dr Mounia Karim , who is a Senior Researcher in Solar Energy and Zero Carbon.
View How can mirrors help us to make solar energy more efficient?
In this episode, we talk to Vice Chancellor Professor Kathryn Mitchell CBE DL about research and innovation within the University and about her own academic specialism, psychology.
View Why is innovation and research important to the University of Derby?
In this episode, we talk to Professor Qile He about business.
What really does make the world go round?
What supply chains are really important to the day-to-day running of the world, of our society.
And we talk about why inter-business relationships are so very important to our lives.
View Why are inter-business relationships important to our lives?

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/long-covid-research:
The team, led by Professor Mark Faghy, is investigating whether anti-viral medications can be used as an effective treatment option for patients diagnosed with long Covid.
The study is being led by Derby with collaborators from University Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS Trust, Aston University, and the University of Exeter.
It is being managed by the University of Plymouth’s Peninsula Clinical Trials Unit.
Long Covid remains a significant health and societal challenge.
Current estimates show that over two million people in the UK and more than 144m globally live with long Covid and almost a quarter of sufferers have had their symptoms for more than two years.
People affected may experience symptoms such as extreme fatigue and breathlessness, palpitations, and brain fog.
In many cases these symptoms are debilitating, interfering with work, family life and socialising.
The search for potential treatments is therefore of paramount importance as it may help in reducing the number of people impacted by this condition, improving outcomes and quality of life.
View Long Covid research at the University of Derby video transcript
The cause of long Covid is not yet clear; however, a widely recognised theory is that the virus persists within specific cells of the infected person, causing an associated inflammatory response, and a wide range of prolonged symptoms.
This study will allow the team to assess whether antiviral medicines have the potential to be an effective treatment option for patients once diagnosed with long Covid.
Eligible patients will undergo a series of tests before and after being given the medication to monitor any improvements in long-standing issues they are experiencing.
Professor Faghy’s team have led previous international studies to explore the impacts of acute and long Covid, recording patients’ symptoms and their lived experience.
The current study is nearing completion but the team are working hard to develop the next phase of the project which will be a randomised control trial anticipated to take place in 2026.
Those who are interested in being considered for the trial are asked to register their interest with the study team.
To find out more about the project contact Professor Mark Faghy .
Professor Faghy and his team are exploring the causes of Post Exertional Malaise (PEM) or Post Exertional Symptom Exacerbation (PESE) in people living with long Covid – these are terms used to describe the worsening of symptoms after physical or mental exertion, even at minor levels.
This study aims to increase the understanding of the mechanisms of why people with long Covid experience symptom exacerbation following any form of exertion.
Working closely with the long Covid community, our researchers and scientists have developed these studies to maximise the benefits to people with long Covid.
Mark is a Professor in Clinical Exercise Science in the School of Sport and Exercise Science and an active researcher in the Biomedical and Clinical Science Research Theme.
Research by a team of academics into the effects of long Covid has been described as a ‘model for the future of health research’, after securing a global award.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/the-selves-in-doping-a-multi-country-study:
However, researchers (e.g., Boardley et al., 2021 ; Petróczi et al., 2021 ) have been calling for attention to address psychological drivers of international doping or the use of banned substances for performance enhancement due to limited research effect in this field to date.
In this project, we build on Zhang and Boardley’s (2022) preliminary work linking two opposing self-concepts, namely narcissism (i.e., constructing and maintaining a positive self-image) and self-compassion (i.e., taking a kind and non-evaluative attitude towards the negative self or any related unpleasant experience such as failure), to explain why athletes may engage in or resistant to dope.
The two distinctive self-concepts are also of interest because literature has documented the risk associated with narcissism in doping (e.g., Nicholls et al., 2017 ) and the potential of self-compassion to attenuate narcissistic individuals’ maladaptive, antagonistic reactions to negative events or unpleasant experience (e.g., Leary et al., 2007 ).
This project, therefore, aims to understand the influences of the two distinctive self-concepts in elite or high-level athletes’ risk of engaging in doping and to examine the psycho-social-behavioural factors underlying such influences.
The new knowledge generated from the project will contribute to the development of a psychology-focused anti-doping intervention and education programme in the future.
This project has been funded by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) and is a collaboration between an international team involving the UK (University of Derby and University of Birmingham), the US (University of Illinois), and China (Sun Yat-Sen University).
We are now at the stage of participant recruitment and data collection.
If you would like to participate, please complete this form
We would like to thank WADA Social Science Grant for the support to this project.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/do-forests-really-have-the-power-to-change-how-we-feel:
As a country that is constantly flooded with media, long work hours, hectic lifestyles and a high amount of screen time, it is no surprise that researchers and health professionals are looking for alternative ways to manage stress.
Social prescribing, a wellbeing activity which the public can self-refer to or be signposted to by health professionals, has been considered a suitable alternative to prescribing medication for the last 30 years but is now progressing even further into green social prescribing thanks to the research undertaken by Dr Kirsten McEwan , Associate Professor in Health and Wellbeing.
Green social prescribing is a way to improve wellbeing, physical health and social connection, by engaging people with nature-based interventions, such as therapeutic gardening or conservation volunteering.
Dr McEwan has been researching green social prescribing for a number of years, and more specifically looks at Forest Bathing.
Forest Bathing is originally from Japan, where it is a green social prescription.
Forest bathing is a slow, mindful, sensory walk in a natural environment, where walkers are encouraged to appreciate their surroundings.
The benefits from Forest Bathing have been associated with both mental wellbeing and physiological factors.
It has been so effective in helping the Japanese population that there are over 65 certified centres, and it is used regularly as an alternative medication by Japanese healthcare providers.
However, in the UK there has only been one other study besides Dr McEwan’s into the benefits of it.
Dr McEwan’s study with The Forest Bathing Institute, used wellbeing surveys and measured heart rate variability before and after the walk.
Heart rate variability tells us how well-balanced our nervous system is; the higher the heart rate variability (HRV) the more balance there is between our fight and flight system and our rest and digest system which results in feeling calmer and having better cardiovascular health.
This study found similar results to Japanese studies, with significant improvements in cardiovascular health (HRV), anxiety, and uniquely measured and found improvements in rumination and social connection (McEwan et al., 2021) and has since resulted in Surrey Council using Forest Bathing as a social prescription and becoming a Government ‘test and learn’ site for green social prescribing.
Dr McEwan says: "It has been rewarding to see the results of our research project so quickly put into action by Surrey Council.
Through the test and learn funds, around 90 adults in Surrey with mental health difficulties or learning disabilities have so far benefitted from Forest bathing with The Forest Bathing Institute and have shown significant improvements in mental and physical health, including a 42% reduction in anxiety and a 34% increase in mobility."
Despite Japan’s overwhelming success with Forest Bathing, the UK is at a disadvantage when it comes to rolling it out across the whole country.
Ancient woodlands have been suggested to be more effective for Forest Bathing, and in collaboration with Sheffield University, Dr McEwan found that ancient woodland held more immune-boosting volatile organic compounds compared with an urban garden (Walker et al, 2023).
However, unlike Japan, which has 67% tree cover with 19% ancient woodland, only 13.2% of the UK’s landscape is covered by forest, and of that, only 2% is ancient woodland.
Ancient woodland is, therefore, less accessible, so, adapting the research and the learning, Dr McEwan and mindfulness author Vanessa Potter introduced ParkBathe.
While initially sparked by the UK’s lack of forest, ParkBathe was also a response to Covid-19 lockdowns.
The Covid-19 lockdowns saw many people confined to back gardens or local parks and with concerns around mental health due to isolation.
With funding from the Big Lottery, ParkBathe offered free one-hour walks in urban parks and enabled more people to access the benefits of Forest Bathing.
Inspired by the success of ParkRun in attracting those who would not normally run, ParkBathe aimed to provide a gateway to attract ‘sceptics’ who would not normally consider Forest bathing or be too busy to engage in a traditional 2-3 hour Forest bathing walk.
Indeed, walkers who were initially sceptical reduced in their scepticism and showed the greatest improvements in wellbeing.
Whilst one busy walker commented, ‘The pace of life in London is so fast, it’s often ‘next next next!’ and you don’t get to take anything in.
I’m going to slow down more and appreciate my surroundings because it’s good for me’
The findings from ParkBathe are promising, for example, reducing anxiety by 40%, and are beginning to encourage social prescribers to refer people.
One walker commented, ‘It’s now nearly eight hours since I ParkBathed and I’m still feeling so relaxed.
My mind isn’t full of “stuff” and I don’t feel any anxiety - something I’ve been plagued with for nearly a year now.’
The research and studies have also attracted the attention of Good Parks London, who, recently used Parkbathe as a case study of good practice.
Good Parks London have found a reluctance for females to use parks due to safety concern of being out alone.
Group walk initiatives such as ParkBathe offer an opportunity to spend time in parks in the safety of a group, and therefore not miss out on the wellbeing benefits available.
For younger people, a silent walk is far less engaging than an adult may find it.
Dr McEwan, in collaboration with those who work with young people in nature, adapted the walk so that it became a blend of sensory and Forest School activities.
Significant improvements were seen in anxiety, rumination and especially nature connection.
One young person commented: "I feel much happier.
I’ve had a lot of stress this week…exams coming up, but I’m not even thinking about that now, I’ve got chronic fatigue so my fight/flight is all over the place, next time I’ll spend more time in the woods."
There is demand for Forest bathing guides to adapt their walks to meet the needs of groups who find physical access to nature difficult due to low energy or impaired mobility.
For example, in collaboration with three Forest bathing guides with lived experience of Long Covid, Dr McEwan researched the benefits of online Forest bathing for adults with Long Covid.
There were significant reductions in anxiety, symptom severity and most striking an 81% increase in social connection.
One person with Long Covid commented: "It’s just magical.
I feel the best I have felt this whole month.
I’m bedridden and when we do the session it feels like a massive release from all the issues I’m dealing with.
It makes an impact to how I cope with things the week after.
It really is adding to my toolbox to cope with chronic illness".
Dr McEwan more recently collaborated with EcoWisdom in Canada, who offer online Forest bathing on prescription for adults living with a disability.
Results show significant improvements in symptom severity, social connection, and rumination which last up to one month later.
One person who is bedridden commented: "You can lay on the bed and you don't have to get to the river or the forest.
You can imagine it and picture it in your mind, which is really powerful"

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/realistic-collage:
Researcher Marc Bosward is concerned with how history and society can be understood through the practice of archive film collage, and whether our interpretations of the past change when we look at history in a different way.
Archive film collage is a form of film created by combining found footage (misplaced, forgotten, or archived film footage that documents past events) from different sources.
Researcher Marc Bosward uses film collage to consider how the composition of film fragments can capture the complexities of history.
The research specifically aims to connect audiences with the social identities and the past of Wales, particularly around the representation of working-class communities.
By using film collage in this way, the research aims to question interpretations of history, and whether the dominant stories can be challenged.
The research project addresses the history and identity of South Wales through investigating and using the archive film collection of the National Screen and Sound Archive of Wales.
The research deploys collage as a practical form to explore the history of the region, alongside its political, cultural and social identity.
Theories of Welsh history and identity are used in the analysis, interpretation and composition of the archive materials as evidence of a complex and layered culture.
This explores the cultural, economic, social and political forces that have contributed to the formation of shared identities.
In the creative manipulation of factual film material, the collage work aims to reveal these invisible, non-physical powers that have produced historical events.
The research aimed to consider whether film collage can uncover and negotiate the complexities of history and identity and whether it can uncover the unseen causes of events in the past.
To date, the research contribution lies in the analysis and articulation of the collage process as a staged system.
It has highlighted the principles of collage as a potentially transferable and portable visual research method.
In relation to identity, the research has shown that identity is a fluid, complex and layered structure of many, sometimes conflicting and contradictory factors.
To understand identity, we must be sensitive to this complexity if we are to gain a better understanding of how it comes to be formed and how and why it changes.
Marc Bosward ’s background, which inspired this project, is his practice in collage and combining collage with documentary and archive film.
His previous work in collage has been with ideas and themes that address features of the factual world, and it has always been about using collage as a method of negotiating the complexity of reality.
This has led to his interest in thinking about collage as a philosophical concept, and not just a material process or method.
Marc is also passionate about the capacity of archive film to connect audiences with our collective, social history.
He believes archive film has a unique capacity to give a tangible sense of history that resonates with the present.
Marc believes that it can tell us that the conditions of the past, the ‘then and there’, are directly related to our present conditions, in the ‘here and now’.
This has considerable power in fostering awareness of how our current social and political contexts were produced.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/the-cruse-project:
Developing the cross-cultural skills of graduates in response to the needs of the European Enterprise
The project aimed to develop the intercultural competencies of graduates and employees in Europe by enhancing the quality and relevance of their skills to enable them to be active professionals in the competitive European working environment.
The project investigated the perceived and actual intercultural competencies of graduates required by employers and then provided outputs that help address these needs.
The project responded to the European Commission’s (EC) Strategic Framework – Education and Training 2020 view, that there had been a lack of focus on the involvement of social institutions in the cross-cultural skill needs that companies have and on the effectiveness of investment in education and training in this area on business productivity.
The project outputs were designed to inform and support the educational and training practices of and be of value to, educators, training managers, employers, and students.
The outputs are open-access and are available upon request:
If you wish to request any materials from the CRUSE Project, please contact Dr Sa'ad Ali on s.ali@derby.ac.uk
The CRUSE project is being undertaken by five higher education institutions located within four European countries:
University of Derby, UK (Previously worked at University of Worcester, UK) Dr Sa'ad Ali, Project Coordinator and Dr Robin Bell
London South Bank University, UK Professor Karin Moser, Dr Rea Prouska and Dr May Tungtakanpoung
UC Leuven-Limburg, Belgium Leieve Mulier, Inge Godts
Halmstad University, Sweden Dr Fawzi Halila
Uludağ Universitesi, Turkey Dr Mehlika Sarac and Olcay Bektas

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/departments/psychology/psychology-research/compassion-in-education:
Within education, wellbeing and mental health is at crisis point.
Keeping teachers and lecturers in the profession is at an all-time low, and child and adolescent mental health issues are at an all-time high.
Our research and psychologists at the University of Derby are evidencing how compassion-based approaches in education can offer a solution for this sector.
Compassion-based approaches are an effective way of generating greater psychological wellbeing.
However, there has been limited application, and scientific trial, of these approaches in educational settings.
To address this, and with the aim of supporting those in the education sector, our research-active psychologists, who are world leads in the development of Compassion-Focused Therapy (CFT) and Compassionate Mind Training (CMT), are applying their knowledge and developments within the educational sector.
The research team is led by Professor Frances Maratos .
Professor Maratos and colleagues progress compassion-based interventions across different educational settings and with different groups of individuals, including staff, pupils and higher education students, to explore the feasibility and effectiveness of Compassion in Education.
The team rigorously evaluate the effectiveness of their compassion-based interventions in educational settings and with different groups.
This evaluation includes the intervention effects on psychological wellbeing, physiological wellbeing and prosocial behaviours.
The research team have produced effective curriculums and Continuing Professional Developments (CPDs) that teachers, lecturers and others can train in for their own wellbeing and to lead in their own schools, colleges, universities and beyond.
The aim of this is to improve the experiences and wellbeing of all and ensure compassion in education is scalable.
To date, we have developed four curriculums.
These are:
Compassionate Mind Training for Teachers, Staff and Educators (CMT-TSE) has been trialled internationally with over 700 teachers, educators and further staff working in high burn-out occupations.
Results, now published in six journals, reveal that those who undertake the six-module CPD show significant decreases in anxiety, depression and stress, have improved job satisfaction and have better physiological health (as measured by greater heart-rate variability), compared with staff who have not taken the course.
In addition, results reveal the CPD enables staff to better emotionally regulate and have greater compassion for those they work with, as well as themselves.
"The education sector are currently facing a recruitment and retention crisis.
It is well known that many teachers feel overworked, under-appreciated and stressed.
The partnership work carried out with the University of Derby has enabled us to invest in our staff’s mental health and wellbeing.
This project has come at the right time for us.
Never has it been more important or needed.
I cannot thank the University enough.“ - Head teacher taking part in the CMT-TSE programme.
Compassionate Mind Training for Pupils – Wellbeing: Our Brains, Our Bodies (CMT-Pupils WoBoB) has been trialled with over 300 pupils in the UK.
Results reveal that the lessons protect pupils from increases in anxiety, promote inclusivity and kindness, and provide children with the skills they need to better emotionally regulate their moods and feelings.
All of these promote better in-class relations, behaviour and management.
“It has helped me feel a lot more positive about myself.
My behaviour has improved even more after the project.” - Child taking part in the CMT-Pupils (WoBoB) programme.
Compassionate Communication in Further and Higher Education (CC-FE/HE) has been trialled with over 900 hundred University of Derby students.
Results reveal that it helps students address unhelpful group behaviours, employ more helpful group behaviours and develop enhanced feelings of inclusivity, especially when team working.
"It made you more aware of things like eye contact and how important it is to make sure that you're including everybody and not just letting one person dominate the conversations." - Student taking part in the CC-FE/HE Programme.
As part of the CMT-TSE research, Professor Maratos has collaborated with Dr Marcela Matos, University of Coimbra, to enable its availability in Portugal.
Professor Maratos has also been working with schools and teachers across Wales in collaboration with Learning Mindfully (Liz Williams), to ensure CMT-TSE and CMT-Pupils WoBoB can be made available more widely in the UK.
Professor Maratos is currently also working with Lancaster University and Lancaster City Council to ensure CMT-TSE is available to all educators working with Lancaster schools.
Plus, the CMT-Pupils WoBoB curriculum is currently being rescoped to produce a version suitable for younger children, led by PhD student Julie Hurst.
Professor Maratos’ research is also expanding further afield to work with researchers in Ireland, Poland and Australia.
As part of our CC-HE research, all psychology students at the University of Derby take part in CC-HE as part of their HE studies.
The approach is further being rolled out across the University.
In addition, Dr Caroline Harvey and Professor Frances Maratos are involved in the roll-out of the pedagogical approach with the University of Hull and the University of Central Lancashire, enabling more widespread trial of the approach in UK universities.
Dr Harvey is also collaborating with the University of Hong Kong on a wider initiative they are implementing to embed compassionate approaches in their curriculum.
In addition, the CC-HE curriculum is currently being rescoped to produce a version suitable for FE students, led by PhD student Hannah Dunn.
As we have now effectively trialled and rigorously evaluated our curriculums and CPDs, with results published in the highest calibre journals, our main focus is on providing these initiatives for school staff, educators, school pupils, students within higher education and those working in high burn-out/high emotional labour professions.
Compassionate Mind Training for Teachers, Educators and Staff (CMT-TSE) aims to improve the wellbeing of staff across the education sector and beyond.
As part of the staff CPD, we deliver an insightful programme to help those working in educational settings and high burn-out occupations gain a greater understanding of emotions – including emotion regulation in the brain and the body.
We also share a variety of compassion-based practices to cultivate emotional well-being.
The initiative is based on the latest science and practices as devised by our teams of world-leading experts in the field.
The course comprises six 90-minute modules designed to be progressed over 8-12 weeks (e.g.
one school term or two half terms).
Delegates are provided with all course materials such as module materials, practice sheets and audios.
Module content encompasses:
CMT-TSE, developed by Professor Maratos and colleagues at the University, has now been trialled with over 700 educators across the UK and Portugal.
Rigorous evaluation of its effectiveness has been published in six international peer-reviewed journals and reveals the specific CPD to improve both psychological and physiological health.
This includes improved emotion regulation, protection from burn-out, anxiety and depression, increased compassion towards self and others, improved job satisfaction, improved work-life balance, and better heart and cardiovascular functioning.
CMT-TSE, therefore, allows for an affordable approach to improving staff well-being, which can improve the immediate environment (e.g.
classroom/workspace), impacting the well-being/behaviour of the wider community (e.g.
pupils or further staff).
Example testimonials are available on the booking page.
Compassionate Mind Training for Pupils (CMT-Pupils) aims to improve the wellbeing of students of both primary and secondary age (those in Year 6 and 7).
As part of the initiative, we have developed a six-lesson series entitled ‘Wellbeing: Our Brains, Our Bodies’ that helps pupils gain greater understanding of their own emotions – including how emotions work in the brain and the body.
We also introduce a range of fun practices and exercises that are based upon our compassion-based ethos as well as positive psychology.
The initiative is based on the latest science and practices as devised by our team of world-leading experts.
Training in the approach is delivered over two days and includes all lesson materials.
Content of the lessons, and training in their delivery, encompasses:
CMT-Pupils WoBoB, developed by Professor Maratos and colleagues at the University, has now been trialled with over 300 UK pupils in Year 6 and Year 7 using cluster-controlled trial designs.
Rigorous evaluation of its effectiveness with Year 7 pupils has been published in an international peer-reviewed quartile 1 journal.
This trial highlighted ways to enhance social inclusion among pupils and their teachers, support children in managing their emotions more effectively - leading to better classroom behaviour - and protect them from rising anxiety, perfectionism, and self-criticism.
CMT-Pupils WoBoB therefore allows for an affordable approach to improving pupil wellbeing, especially when considering that in current times, anxiety is the leading cause of pupil absence in the UK.
CMT-Pupils WoBoB provides an affordable approach as, per school, only a small number of teachers need to be trained in WoBoB curriculum delivery.
Once trained, these individuals can then deliver CMT-Pupils WoBoB to all children in Year 6 and/or Year 7 in their school as part of RSE/SEAL/PSHE provision.
The Compassionate Communication in Further and Higher Education (CC-FE/HE) student initiative arm aims to improve group functioning, along with feelings of wellbeing and group belonging in FE/HE by embedding the ethos of compassion in the taught curriculum.
During this programme, you will learn about the principles of compassionate communication, as well as be introduced to ways in which developing compassionate communication skills can be beneficial for students.
This pedagogical approach supports students to work more effectively as part of a team, and enhances a core employability skill: effective communication.
Our initiative is based on the latest science and practices as devised by our team of world-leading experts.
The training is delivered over the course of a full day during which you will also be provided with a range of video resources exemplifying key concepts.
Content of the programme, and training in the approach, encompasses:
CCFE/HE developed by Dr Harvey and Professor Maratos has now been trialled with over 1000 undergraduate students at the University of Derby.
The data shows positive impacts of the approach on: prosocial behaviours; improved confidence in group work and group communications; and reductions in loneliness.
Students who have engaged with the CC-FE/HE approach also feel more aware of the impact of their own communication style, including improved interactions with peers inside and outside of the classroom.
Additionally, students who struggle to engage in group discussions report feeling more supported and included, with staff observing the clear benefits of the CCFE/HE curriculum regarding student inclusion and self-awareness.
CC-FE/HE, therefore, allows for an affordable approach to effective student group work.
This course will provide you with the knowledge and materials required to deliver this programme with your own students to improve the core employability skill of effective communication and enhance feelings of belonging.
In this half-day Wellbeing in the Workplace: Emotions, Behaviour and Communication CPD, you will be introduced to wellbeing related psychoeducation and practices, along with compassionate communication skills that are essential for effective team working.
You will have the opportunity to understand more about how stressful situations affect the brain and behaviour and explore how emotions impact brain and body physiological responses.
We will explore how emotions can be encompassed within “drive”, “threat” and “soothing” motivational systems and you will be introduced to techniques that can be used to down-regulate threat and stress through simple exercises to support your wellbeing.
We will also consider how we can be more compassionate when communicating with others and the benefits this can bring to employment situations.
Practices and techniques to understand what we can do to support both ourselves and others to communicate more effectively are then introduced and discussed.
Content of the CPD encompasses:
Our Wellbeing in the Workplace CPD, developed by Professor Maratos and Dr Harvey, draws on core elements of our evidence-led programmes CMT-TSE and CC-FE/HE.
Staff attending our Wellbeing in the Workplace programme will benefit from a range of evidence-based techniques which they can use to support their own wellbeing.
Our curriculums have been scientifically scrutinised and evaluated.
Our wellbeing initiatives in education are unique in that our researchers have published evidence relating to the psychological and physiological beneficial effects of the Compassion in Education curriculums/CPDs in the highest quality internationally peer-reviewed journals and edited books.
Below are just a few publication examples:
The research of Professor Maratos, Dr Harvey and colleagues has also been featured in the TES , Schools Week , the Times Higher Education and the Psychologist .
In addition, Professor Maratos has produced several media pieces and blogs around the topics of wellbeing , the UK educational system and child mental health .
To support the Compassion in Education research, the team of researchers have previously received funding from the University of Derby, The Reed Foundation, the Compassionate Mind Foundation, Learning Mindfully Wales and the Tavistock and Portman NHS Trust.
If additional funders would like to be involved or learn more about the research, please contact Professor Frances Maratos ( f.maratos@derby.ac.uk ) who would welcome the opportunity for a discussion.
Frances Maratos’ research informs applied emotion regulation, compassion and wellbeing interventions worldwide.
She is widely published and has excellent grant capture.
Frances is the exiting Chair of the College of HPSC Research Committee.
Caroline's research is focused on two broad areas and she leads on research concerning compassion in higher education.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/abandoned-mines-geothermal-water:
Our researchers are investigating how to best harness geothermal energy found in naturally heated water in the UK's abandoned coal mines.
With the climate change emergency becoming ever more critical by the day, all eyes are turning towards solutions that can help slow that change down.
Renewable energy is one of the key solutions to reduce the speed of climate change, and geothermal energy is just one option.
Geothermal energy is beneath the earth’s surface and can be used as a way of either heating or cooling systems, or to generate electricity.
Naturally heated water in disused mines is an important source of renewable energy in the UK.
There is a large interest in using that renewable energy for homes and workplaces in order to reduce carbon emissions and saving costs.
With one quarter of the UK’s homes and businesses above abandoned coal mines, according to the Coal Authority , finding a renewable energy solution that can make the most of mine water is an important step.
Creswell Mine, in North Derbyshire, is 450 metres deep and 6 metres in diameter.
The mine shaft therefore offered the University of Derby’s Zero Carbon researchers an opportunity to assess the feasibility of a heating system taking heat from the water within the shaft.
A temperature log carried out in 2021 at Creswell Mine found the mine water temperature was 17 to 22°C.
This meant the mine could proved to be a very useful heat source if that heat could be harnessed.
Researchers Dr Hirbod Varasteh, Dr Tugba Gurler, Dr Zaharaddeen Hussaini and Professor Chris Sansom recommended two types of systems to try to capture the heat from the mine water.
The team tested both an open-loop and closed-loop system in order to identify the best method for heat transfer.
An open-loop geothermal system extracts water from the ground directly into a heat pump and then into a discharge well.
A closed-loop geothermal system continuously circulates a mixture of antifreeze solution in underground pipes that pass through the warm mine water.
The antifreeze solution is what passes through the heat pump.
The benefit of the closed loop system is that the mine water contamination is not mixed with the pumped water and has a low cost.
However, the open loop was found to have better heat transfer and can recover heat more efficiently due to the direct contact of warm mine water with the heat exchanger.
The researchers have found that the overall efficiency of the open-loop system is very high.
And, by integrating the system with a photovoltaic (PV) system or wind turbine, any electricity required for the heat pump and shaft water pump can be produced in a renewable way.
Having established that the proposed system has a very high coefficient of performance score (a ratio that describes the efficiency of a system), meaning it is very efficient, the team propose to design and build a small feasibility demonstrator so the theory can be put into practice.
The team are also considering the ability to add storage options to ensure that, if there is no immediate need to heat something, the renewable energy can be stored and used at a later date.
There is an additional opportunity for generating electricity when the water needs to be returned to the bottom of the abandoned mine shaft.
While these ideas require rigorous testing, they present another effective solution for generating power:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/showcase/musculoskeletal-health-early-years-workforce:
Many people working in the early years sector regularly undertake significant physical tasks as routine aspects of their role.
Despite this, work investigating the associated risks has so far been limited.
This collaborative research project, led by the University of Derby, seeks to address this gap in understanding, providing new evidence and practical insights that can inform and support both individuals working in these roles and the sector as a whole.
The project seeks to address gaps in understanding regarding potential hazards posed by the physical demands common in many early year’s roles.
Specifically, it aims to investigate possible risk or impacts on individuals’ musculoskeletal (MSK) health associated with environmental or role factors, and how these may be mitigated.
Musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) are the most widespread and burdensome form of impairment - an estimated 1.71 billion people are impacted globally (Cieza et al., 2020), with back pain cited as the largest individual source of disability both globally (World Health Organisation (WHO), 2023), and domestically in the UK (Ferreira et al., 2023).
Expectations are for this phenomenon to increase, with potential knock-on effects for employment longevity, individual wellbeing, and demands on health care services.
This multi-partner endeavour delivers the first robust analyses of the MSK health of those working in the UK early years sector, considering the actions and environments which may be associated with poorer outcomes.
Project partners are united in the goals of raising awareness, reducing risk, and promoting best MSK practices in the early years sector, with a view towards improving early years practitioner MSK health outcomes, increasing quality of provision for children, and reducing staff turnover in the sector.
To find out more about this project please contact Alistair Turvill , a Senior Lecturer specialising in children’s health, and a PhD candidate in chronic pain and quality of life.
Cieza, A., Causey, K., Kamenov, K., Hanson, S.
W., Chatterji, S.
And Vos, T.
(2020).
Global estimates of the need for rehabilitation based on the Global Burden of Disease study 2019: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.
The Lancet, 396(10267), 2006-2017.
Ferreira, M.
L., de Luca, K., Haile, L.
M., Steinmetz, J.
D., Culbreth, G.
T., Cross, M., ...
and Mahmoodpoor, A.
(2023).
Global, regional, and national burden of low back pain, 1990–2020, its attributable risk factors, and projections to 2050: a systematic analysis of the Global Burden of Disease Study 2021.
The Lancet Rheumatology, 5(6), e316-e329.
World Health Organisation (2023).
Low back pain.
Retrieved August 2023 from: https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/low-back-pain
The range of potential impacts for the current project are significant and varied.
It is hoped that through greater raising of awareness and provision of information on effective action, a number of different goals may be achieved.
Understanding and promoting the physical health of individuals’ working in the early years offers a range of desirable outcomes to lived experiences, including.
There are a range of potential benefits to both settings and families who use these settings.
These are both economic, practical, and related to quality of provision.
The need to foster a skilled and able work force for young children is a key demand for modern societies, both to provide children with the professionals to expertly support their progression, as well as enable parents to work.
There are also wider social, and economic demands and burdens associated with supporting people whose ability to work is hampered due to injury or impairment.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/blog/research:
Ahead of Global Atrial Fibrillation Aware Week (18-24 November), Dr Elaina Taylor, Senior Lecturer in Psychology, whose work focuses on the quality of life in individuals with atrial fibrillation, highlights the importance of self-screening for irregular heartbeats – and provides some top tips of how to conduct this yourself.
Dr Anna Burton and Dr Amanda Blake Davis discover our living heritage through landmark trees and the growing field of 'arboreal humanities'.
Resilience is increasingly seen as something the education system should foster and employers should encourage and develop.
But is resilience just telling people to get good at putting up with a bad situation?
On Employee Appreciation Day, Professors Frances Maratos and Tristram Hooley from the University of Derby ask whether we should move away from resilience and towards compassion.
On Safer Internet Day (6 February 2024), Dr Peter Macaulay, Senior Lecturer in Psychology at the University of Derby, explores how research is helping to shape new approaches to tackle the growing issue of cyberbullying.
Dr Elizabeth Marsh, Associate Professor in Cellular and Molecular Biology at the University of Derby, explains how a simple self-screening check could help catch head and neck cancer early.
Chrissie Rowell, researcher and lecturer in Marketing at the University of Derby, discusses how managing screen time is an ongoing issue for parents of young children and how they can encourage healthier habits and more moderated use of screens.
Dr Sophie Williams, Senior Lecturer in Health Psychology, discusses her research into polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and its cost on the mental health of women and girls.
Please note, this blog discusses suicide, self-harm and child bereavement.
Please consider carefully the impact it may have on you before reading.
Our female researchers work across the University of Derby in all disciplines from sciences to sport, arts to education.
They are delivering research that makes a real difference to everyday lives and they are driving policy changes that can alter society for the better.
Dr Mark Faghy, who is conducting research into long Covid, explores how data can help drive change.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity/athena-swan:
It was established in 2005 to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM) employment.
The Charter is now being used worldwide to address gender equality more broadly, and not just barriers to progression that affect women.
Visit the Athena Swan website
To celebrate our female researchers and discover the work they are doing visit their profiles.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/researchers/female-researchers:
At the University of Derby, we are committed to addressing gender equality in higher education and strive to enable all academics and researchers to succeed regardless of their gender, race and background.
As a member of Athena SWAN , we also organise a variety of activities throughout the year to promote and raise awareness of gender equality in the higher education sector, especially in STEM subject areas.
Professor Liz Atkins is a leading scholar in the field of vocational education and training (VET).
She has published widely on her concerns about how VET helps low-attaining young people move from school to work and associated ethical/methodological and social justice issues.
Her recent book with Duckworth (2019) is Research Methods for Social Justice and Equity in Education (Bloomsbury).
Ang works as an artist and artistic researcher.
Her research focuses on documentation as an act of ephemeral art process, and with animality and empathy (as acted and/or intuitively behaved) in human-animal companion-species relationships.
Angela is the Head of Apprenticeships for the College of Science and Engineering.
Visiting Professor to the University of Derby Online Learning, Professor Dawn Forman, is a co-owner and director of Interactive Leadership and Management Development a consultancy specialising in executive coaching, leadership and team development and academic writing.
Dawn has also been working on a freelance basis with universities and health services internationally.
Her work is widely published, has been funded by several organisations and, as an applied researcher, she works with organisations to create impact.
Susan Hogan is Professor of Arts and Health.
Susan has wide-ranging interests in visual culture, from the history and development of the arts and health, including the use of the arts in propagating health messages and research findings, to artistic and performative research methods.
Her books are used in the training of arts and health professionals internationally.
As a Professor of Law and Business, Flora Huang focuses her research on corporate and financial law, international trade law, arbitration, Chinese law as well as law and sustainable development.
She is currently serving as the EU Chairperson for Arbitrations and the Trade-and-Sustainable-Development Expert Panel Proceedings at the European Commission.
Professor Frances Maratos is a chartered psychologist and leading expert in affective science.
Her ground-breaking research in the field of Compassion in Education, as well as wellbeing, is world renown.
She leads provision of our Compassion CPD’s and curriculums at the UoD, is widely published, has excellent grant capture and is a spokesperson for the Global Compassion Coalition.
Professor Kathryn Mitchell is the Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive of the University of Derby.
Her academic background is in Psychology and she continues to play an active role in research.
Kate specialises in applied research, project management and income generation.
She has undertaken research for numerous organisations including the British Academy, the Home Office, both in London and regionally in Nottingham, the National Police Training Units at Bramshill and Easingwold, the Prime Ministers Delivery Unit, and the European Commission.
Dr Larissa Allwork is Researcher (Impact) in the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (URKEO).
She is also a Historian who investigates how public institutions and societies engage with difficult, provocative or traumatic histories.
Dr Tina Bass is an Associate Professor and Head of Discipline (Business and Management).
She has a Doctorate of Social Science (DSocSci) from the University of Leciester and her research interests are currently focused upon change management and higher education pedagogies.
Recently she has taken an interest in the impact of social media upon business.
Geraldine is the Programme Leader for the MA Inclusion and SEND and the National Award for SEN Co-ordination: Leading effective inclusive practice in SEN (PG Certificate)
Dr Rhiannon Jones is a thought leader in Social and Design innovation and Associate Professor (Civic).
She leads the Civic Lab Research Group and is a member of Pedagogic Innovation Enhancement and Research (PIER) team within the Provost of Learning and Teaching.
She is the CEO of S.H.E.D and chair of Cumulus: International Contemporary Working Art Group.
Sigrid's research focuses on reading and wellbeing, behaviour change and doctoral pedagogy.
She teaches at all levels, supervises research students and leads UoD’s doctoral supervisor training.
As Chair of the HPSC College Research Degrees Committee, she supports our research community and contributes to strategic developments enhancing sustainable research and innovation.
Associate Professor Caroline Locke works as an artist and artistic researcher.
Her research is attuned to natural ecologies.
Finding ways to understand and respond to new geological age, she develops kinetic sculptures, large-scale immersive installations, and sound works.
One focus of her research is on identifying the need for closer connection and greater understanding of nature.
Most of Kirsten's research has focused on Compassion-Focused interventions.
More recently her research has focused on nature-based interventions such as Forest Bathing (slow mindful walking in nature).
Kirsten's aim is to support the spread of these interventions to improve human health and wellbeing, but also to inspire more pro-environmental attitudes and behaviours.
Melanie has worked in the UK education sector for 24 years, in secondary education, FE and HE, and with national bodies on curriculum and qualification reform.
Melanie is Associate Professor of Learning and Teaching and works with colleagues across the university to support the development of excellent and innovative practice in learning and teaching, particularly in pedagogic research.
Eleni is an Associate Professor in Business Management at the University of Derby, Buxton.
Eleni teaches on subjects relating to the management and marketing of Tourism, Hospitality, Events and Spa industries.
Christine Parker is an Associate Professor of Art Practice.
This means her writing and directing for the screen has achieved international reach and recognition.
Take a look at the projects we have been involved in, the impact they have and our priorities for the future.
At Derby, excellent innovation and research is at the heart of what we do.
It informs our learning and teaching, helps to improve the lives of those within our communities, and positively impacts the ...
Find out how we build a sense of community and support our researchers — in their careers and in other ways.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/researchers/supporting-researchers/postgraduate-researcher-support:
Our Postgraduate Research (PGR) students are a vital part of the University’s research community, contributing to innovation, discovery, and the advancement of knowledge across a wide range of disciplines.
We are committed to providing an enriching and supportive environment where our PGR students can develop both academically and professionally, equipping them with the skills and confidence needed to excel in their research and future careers.
We offer a variety of initiatives and resources to ensure our PGR students feel supported throughout their journey, including:
By offering these tailored resources and opportunities, we ensure that our PGR students feel valued, supported, and empowered throughout their research journey.
Whether through academic development, career support, or wellbeing initiatives, we are committed to nurturing the next generation of research leaders.
We run a year-round programme of training and events to help you complete your doctorate and prepare for your future career.
Postgraduate Research training is organised around the three main phases of the research degree: beginning; middle; and completing the doctorate.
Our tailored programme ranges from the doctoral induction, research methods and tools, research ethics, research management, public engagement and impact from research.
We also hold lots of other research-focused events where PGR students are invited to attend, such as:
Our PGR students also participate in the East Midlands Doctoral Network (EMDoc), enter the Three-Minute Thesis (3MT) Competition and have the opportunity to become a member of our PGR Network on X.
Our PGR Development Fund supports students in their research development.
If you are eligible, you can apply for funding to support a wide variety of purposes, such as attending training events or conferences.
We have careers advice available for our postgraduate research students through our Careers and Employment Service .
Whether your desired career is here at the University of Derby or elsewhere, in your current field or something different, we are committed to giving you impartial and independent career development and employability support, advice and guidance.
For example, we can help you to:
As well as having access to the University’s full range of student support and clubs and societies, our international students can also receive specific support from our International Student Centre .
We also offer our students a free course on Academic English Language that is tailored specifically to their needs.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/researchers/supporting-researchers/early-career-researchers-academics:
Through the University Innovation and Research department and the People, Environment and Culture department we have a range of programmes in place to support our Early Career Researchers and Early Career Academics to support them deliver research that is ground-breaking and has real-world impact.
Whether that is through our Impact Team or through our pre-award team, sourcing funding and grants, we ensure our researchers are fully supported.
We know that there are different definitions for the term ‘Early-Career Researcher’ (ECR) but at Derby, we class you as an Early-Career Researcher if you are within four years of completing your doctorate and are embarking on the first stages of your research career.
If you are a researcher or early-career researcher, we have several initiatives to support you:
The University's Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (URKEO) can help you navigate the research funding landscape and gain advice on appropriate internal and external funding opportunities.
We can also support your research in identifying career-stage specific opportunities, including our Early-Career Researchers Development Fund.
This fund enables you to apply for additional funding to support your professional development.
For example, you could ask for funding to help pay for hosting or attending events or conferences, research consumables, or travel.
As an applied university, we’ll encourage you to use your research to make a positive impact on the industry, the public services, or the wider society.
We have a dedicated Impact Officer Team who can work with you to help identify ways to embed impact from the very outset of research projects, evaluation evidence and the safe storage of impact evidence.
The University will also help you make any submissions to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) : the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
This forum aims to encourage shared learning across colleges, research centres, and academic disciplines and to stimulate collaboration between our ECRs.
It runs a range of workshops (at least once per term) to support your professional development; these will generally address the common challenges that ECRs experience and develop your research skills.
The forum also gives ECRs a voice within the University Professorial Council and other University committees.
This means that ECRs get the opportunity to input into wider University strategic planning, which is particularly beneficial if you aspire to become an Associate Professor.
Through this mentoring scheme, you can receive support and guidance on your research objectives from a senior member of staff.
You will meet regularly to reflect on your work and progress, in a way that matches your personal requirements.
ECRs at the University have the opportunity to join the British Academy Early-Career Researcher Network which will support UK-based post-doctoral research in the humanities and social sciences.
The network will support career development through opportunities to strengthen skills and networks and will offer additional experience.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/researchers/supporting-researchers/researcher-development-programme:
The programme will help you to secure funded research, support your research practice and facilitate interdisciplinary collaborations.
The programme is aligned with the University's strategic aims , the wider higher education environment, particularly the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers .
At the University of Derby, we are fully committed to fostering a research culture that values and invests in its people.
As part of this commitment, we have signed the Concordat , reinforcing our dedication to supporting the career development and progression of our research staff.
This aligns with our Innovation and Research Strategy , which places professional and personal development at the heart of our approach to research excellence.
For our researchers, this means greater clarity on the responsibilities of funders, institutions, and managers in creating an environment where research careers can flourish.
The Concordat provides a clear framework outlining what researchers can expect in terms of opportunities for growth, fair employment practices, and access to professional development.
At the same time, it highlights the role that researchers themselves play in actively engaging with these opportunities to shape their own career paths.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/training-development/the-work-health-hub:
Our mission is to empower and support everyone within the workplace to create a culture that promotes positive health and wellbeing.
Through our preventative and proactive approach, we aim to challenge stigma, promote early intervention, and advocate for psychologically safe working environments, where people can thrive.
The Work Health Hub online platform has the following elements:
Our consultancy approach enables us to guide you through your wellbeing journey.
Taking a deep dive into your organisation and holding focus groups with staff to identify needs, helps us to create a bespoke action plan.
We will guide you through key elements that underpin happy, healthy, and psychologically safe workplaces, underpinned by the 6 Mental Health at Work Core Standards.
We will work with you to define and plan elements such as objectives, measurements and frameworks, employee engagement, interventions, and communications to create a strategic and proactive approach to wellbeing.
See our consultancy brochure .
Our campaigns shine a spotlight on key health and wellbeing challenges and advocate for change.
Previous campaigns have included a Managers Matter toolkit for organisations looking to recruit, induct, support, and retain the best people managers, and Voices for Change, dedicated to challenging mental health stigma.
The Work Health Hub is the conduit between academic and business, making the latest research from our academics accessible for employers.
Current research includes Long-COVID and Generational attitudes to mental health.
Here you can learn about the main findings from this research, the implications this has on your organisation and how you can apply this learning.
Our learning community houses resources and practical tools to support the health and wellbeing of your workforce.
Our resources include wellbeing templates, information guides and awareness raising resources.
We offer our members a range of online and face-to-face events throughout the year, during which they can hear from Practitioners in the field and network with like-minded people across different sectors.
Access to our 10-module, self-led online course “Wellbeing in the Workplace” that guides you through a clear process to ensure you keep mental health on your agenda and support your staff in an effective way.
Members will also have access to a range of courses that will enhance their knowledge and understanding of mental health and wellbeing.
The Work Health Hub has an amazing and varied bank of Practitioners in the field of health and wellbeing, all on hand to offer bespoke support for our organisations.
Practitioners range from Mental Health First Aid Practitioners, Psychologists, Coaches, HR specialists and many more.
Presenting the latest news and research in the field of mental health.
This will also link our academics and researchers into organisations, acting as a conduit for knowledge exchange.
A bank of past online events you might have missed, with accompanying resources.
Our Practitioners have exclusive offers for our members enabling them to access their support at a reduced rate.
This section specifically supports Mental Health First Aiders within organisations.
The Hub offers a bespoke support network for these individuals with both in-person and online events throughout the year, alongside key resources that can assist them in their role.
This section houses resources and tools that empower employees to enhance their own health and wellbeing.
Access the Work Health Hub brochure
Working with the Work Health Hub team feels like a true partnership.
The team have been by our side through some very challenging times, with compassion, adaptability and guidance to help us support our employees.
If you are looking to take a strategic and proactive approach to wellbeing, our consultancy offer is a good place to start.
We offer three different packages of support depending on where you are in your wellbeing journey and where you would like to progress.
Each package includes a deep dive into your organisation, allowing us to produce a bespoke action plan that is needs-led and informed by data-driven insights.
We have a range of workshops available and can also develop bespoke interventions to meet the needs of your organisation.
Membership includes access to the Work Health Hub platform and all elements detailed above.
Consultancy is charged separately.
SMEs, Charities and Community Organisations - £100 for 5 log ins
Larger Organisations - £200 for 10 log ins
Additional log ins - £10 each
Register your organisation
Working with the Work Health Hub has been beneficial for both my role as a Mental Health First Aider and the company as a whole.
Having a platform full of support, information and a network of experts on hand has had a great impact on us as a company.
I couldn't imagine my day-to-day role without it!

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/services/technical-services/our-technician-commitment:
The Technician Commitment is a university and research institution initiative, led by a steering board of sector bodies, with support from the Science Council and the Technicians Make It Happen campaign.
The Commitment aims to ensure visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability for technicians working in higher education and research, across all disciplines.
Universities and research institutes are invited to become signatories of the Technician Commitment and pledge action against the key challenges affecting their technical staff.
Find out more about the Technicians Make it Happen campaign
We seek to maintain and ensure a commitment to four key areas we've identified as being integral to supporting our technicians.
These include making sure technical staff are visible, recognised, have opportunities for career development, and are able to work in a sustainable fashion.
We ensure the technicians within the organisation are identifiable and that the contribution of technicians is visible within and beyond the institution.
We commit to:
We support technicians to gain recognition through professional qualifications.
We enable career progression opportunities for technicians through the provision of clear, documented career pathways.
We ensure the future sustainability of Technical skills across the organisation and that technical expertise is fully utilised.
Technicians are valued by the University and their contribution, along with others from across the University, and are central to the development of the University’s Strategic Framework (2018-2030).
In recognition of the contribution that Technicians make, we recently introduced (2019) a ‘Technician of the Year’ category in the University’s Annual Staff Excellence Awards.
The Union of Students at Derby recognises the role of staff including Technicians in its annual awards.
In its Education awards, the Union of Students recognises and celebrates the contribution Technical colleagues make to the student experience.
Technical colleagues are nominated in the ‘Outstanding Support Staff’ category which is open to all those from across the University who support students throughout their studies.
In 2019, the winner and runner-up in this section were both Technical Instructors in the College of Science and Engineering in 2020, the runner-up and winner were Technicians from the College of Health, Psychology and Social Care and College of Science and Engineering, respectively.
Working with colleagues in the University of Derby Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CELT) we are supporting Technical staff to gain either Associate or Fellowship through Advanced HE.
Over the past year, 39 (58%) colleagues have undertaken their induction and in 2020 we celebrated the first Technical Instructors to successfully achieve their Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA) and a further five technical colleagues successfully achieving Associate Fellowship (AFHEA) status.
We have a further nine applications committed to 2021 with seven of those for the January 2021 deadline.
The External Examiner’s HEA report made the following comment:
“…the team are to be commended for the number and range of applications made for AFHEA, in recognition of the important contribution made by colleagues such as technicians”.
The University’s Pathfinder lead, Associate Professor Dr.
Chris Ribchester acknowledged that:
“…a really positive development throughout 2020 has been the greater diversity of colleagues engaging with the Pathfinder Scheme, particularly Technicians.
It’s been great to work directly with Technician colleagues and provide new professional recognition opportunities based around their significant work in supporting students at Derby”.
Technical colleagues are represented within the role of Change Champions across the University contributing to the University’s Transformation Programme as part of the University’s Strategic Framework.
The Change Champions are positive role models for the University, influencing positively on those around them.
Change Champions are ambassadors for the University, celebrating diversity and promoting inclusive practice.
Collectively the Change Champions create an impactful network across the University.
Our first University of Derby Technicians’ Conference organised by the Technical Management Team took place in September 2019.
The University’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Kathryn Mitchell opened the conference highlighting the value the University places on the contributions made by our Technicians.
Kelly Vere, Higher Education and Technician Commitment Lead at the Science Council and Director of Technical Skills and Strategy at the University of Nottingham, was the keynote speaker at the conference, providing an oversight of the Technicians Commitment.
The Conference also gave opportunities for Technicians from across the University to present and showcase their areas and provided tours of their facilities.
The Conference also gave the opportunity for groups from across the University to talk about key issues such as health and safety, research strategy and the Institutional learning and teaching strategy.
The 2020 Technicians Conference was disrupted by Covid-19 however the conference will be instigated in 2021.
Technical colleagues are being increasingly included in University planning activities such as around Covid-19.
This has included social distancing layouts and risk assessments within specialist spaces.
Inclusion on task and finish groups as part of the Academic Task Group – the University group overseeing the implementation of the Educational Model designed considering our new ‘active blended’ learning approach including ‘learning laboratory’ concept.
Technical colleagues formed part of the Timetable Preparedness Group to prepare for teaching.
The Technical Manager was also part of the Student Preparedness Group looking at Virtual Inductions.
The Technician Voice will also be engaged through the University Knowledge Exchange developments including opportunities arising through the associated concordat.
Working with colleagues in Marketing, all Technicians are developing their staff profile on the University website to increase their visibility and to recognise the contribution Technicians make to the University’s taught provision, student experience, research activity and industry engagement.
To enable this, the Digital Marketing Team have provided website training to some of the Technicians to enable them to create new facilities information and update existing sites.
Technicians are actively encouraged to attend, participate and contribute to the meetings of various research groups, research centres and innovation institutes to continue to raise the profile and visibility of technicians in research.
The contribution Technicians make directly to research activity is acknowledged through their inclusion as journal authors and contributors to REF.
Recognition of Technicians contributions towards academic enterprise and external knowledge transfer collaborations, such as the ‘Big House’ project in the College of Art, Humanities and Education , contribute towards the Institutional KEF metrics and is acknowledged through internal communications, such as Derby Daily or Inform.
Technician representation on research deliberative meetings and committees at College and University level is currently being reviewed ahead of the 2021/22 academic year.
Download our Technician Commitment to find out more.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/consultancy-for-business:
Does your business have an issue that it needs a new perspective on?
Or do you require specialist expertise and support with a project?
Our University offers a range of consultancy services to businesses large and small.
There’s a wealth of expertise within our University, including almost 700 staff and students engaged in research.
Our dedicated Business Enquiries team can help you tap into this knowledge base, by finding the right consultant for your company to work with.
They will also let you know whether there are any funded programmes that could help with the costs.
There are many ways our academics and students could act as consultants for you, for example, by:
We have a wide range of expertise, across all four of our colleges:
Our current research themes are as follows, so we also have particular strengths in these areas:
You can find an expert by searching our full staff list or by contacting our Business Enquiries team for guidance.
Innovate UK is the UK’s Innovation Agency with a remit to support businesses to grow through Innovation.
Much of this support is targeted through a range of different themed funding calls that supports the collaborative development and commercialisation of new; Products, Processes and Services.
Read about how we have already helped other businesses.
Nottinghamshire based Microtech have worked with us on the development of the company’s cleaning air solution, which aims to create localised clean air zones.
Data science experts, Elastacloud, approached us looking to find new clients in the midlands.
Almost four years on, the business has grown by 500%.
Rail consultancy ESCL Ltd, secured support and expertise enabling the company to advance the development of Fibre Reinforced Polymer footbridges over railways.
For more information and advice about consultancy and finding the right expert to work with your company, please contact our Business Enquiries team .
Call us on: 0800 001 5500 Email: businessgateway@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/scientific-and-social-research:
Our research centres and groups are led by our most experienced researchers and give your business access to the latest research, thinking and technology.
Research is an integral part of the academic life at the University and we support research with a practical, business focus which helps to underpin its core teaching and learning activities.
We encourage applied research to deliver practical solutions to the real world problems that businesses are currently facing.
Our Business Development Managers can link you to the right Research Group or Centre, and advise on funding opportunities to facilitate project development and support.
Contact us to find out more, email businesshub@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/market-research-and-technical-testing:
Through our team, you'll get access to the full range of research centres and development groups at the University of Derby as well as the specialist centres across our partner universities, specialist Research Institutes and test centres globally.
Whether you want to confirm the status of the market you are in, explore whether it's shrinking or growing, or indeed explore fresh new markets and understand the behaviour of the target customer base, we can put you in touch with experts to help you make commercial decisions based on sound market research data.
Our RES (Research and Evaluation Services) team are dedicated to providing you quantitative or qualitative research and analysis at commercially competitive prices.
Our facilities include two large observation rooms with viewing facilities for conducting attitudinal and customer focus group trials on selected target audiences.
You may want to make sure you're complying with legislative standards or to assess and identify causes of failure.
Or perhaps you simply want to analyse materials or systems in order to understand them more fully.
We can help you interpret the technical data to help you make your commercial decisions.
To find out more please email businesshub@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/digital-capabilities:
“Digital is transformational; put simply its adoption will boost productivity, support UK businesses to create good jobs and increase the earning power of people in many industries”
UK Industrial Strategy, 2018
The digital revolution has initiated the fourth Industrial Revolution,disrupting all industry sectors and fundamentally altering the way we live and work.
The Government’s Digital Strategy, embedded within the wider Industrial Strategy outlines how to put our country at the forefront of that revolution and continue being a world leader in key technologies.
As pioneers of research and product development, and education of a future-proofed workforce, universities are vital to securing the country’s place as a global digital leader.
We are working with 5 other innovative and entrepreneurial universities and a collaborative partner of Midlands Enterprise Universities.
Bringing together our expertise to meet the challenges of the digital future and to deliver the ambitions of the Industrial Strategy and Midlands Engine’s vision.
Applied computing underpins all aspects of digital activity, fueling development in emerging areas such as robotics, autonomous systems and connected devices.
Big data analytics examines large amounts of data to uncover hidden patterns, correlations and other insights.
Whether their focus is on climate change, healthcare or autonomous vehicles, our researchers are using data analytics to answer challenging questions.
Traditional design processes can be expensive and time consuming, especially for something as complicated as an engine.
Every modification needs a prototype built and tested for the desired effect.
The University of Derby’s big data researchers have a different method.
They can create a data view of an engine, then use that data to power a virtual reality model.
Their algorithms can control output or check things like predictive maintenance and any changes take just minutes, not months.
The large manufacturing company involved in the project gets something much more valuable than numbers from their data.
They obtain something tangible and visible that helps them innovate at record speed.
And the future?
The next step for the research team is to use data-generating devices as more than just sources.
If those devices could become computers to process that data, the possibilities are even more exciting.
“This will allow us to not only capture the data, but also process it at the source in real time.
The biggest bottleneck in processing data is not the algorithms we use; it is that there is too much redundant data collected in the first place, so being able to process it at the source would allow us to filter out everything that is weak, noisy or simply not required.
And if the data is good, we will be able to produce something truly useful.”
Professor Ashiq Anjum, Professor of Distributed Systems
The Industrial Strategy identifies our ageing society as one of its Grand Challenges.
Longer life expectancy and lower birth rates mean that one in three children born in the UK today can expect to live to 100*.
That will create demands in health and social care for new products and practices.
Through its Healthy Ageing programme, the Government aims to bring together businesses and researchers to develop ways to tackle loneliness and increase independence and wellbeing.
Assistive and wearable technology means older generations can live and work longer – independently and safely.
Smart diabetic insoles, tools to help people with dementia to stay socially connected, or clothes with in-built healthcare sensors all benefit people with healthcare needs.
Because diabetes can affect blood supply to the nerves, patients are at high risk of getting ulcers.
Researchers at the University of Derby are working with a professor at the Royal Derby Hospital to find out whether an intelligent shoe insole could help.
The novel insole contains sensors which screen the foot.
It’s made from a smart material, and when it receives an instruction from an intelligent closed-loop control system it supports a particular area of the foot.
The team are currently working on which combination of sensors and data processing works best, and what data is the most useful to monitor foot health and prevent serious conditions.
The closed loop control system will integrate smart sensing, intelligent signal processing, and decision support.
This approach could both reduce the number of appointments needed and advise the patient when it’s time to see a specialist.
Data collected over time from the insoles could also support longer term diagnosis and treatment decisions.
“The development of foot ulcers in people with diabetes is a source of great misery to sufferers and cost to the NHS.
This exciting technology could prevent ulcers occurring in people with diabetes who are at high risk because nerve damage means they can’t feel their feet.
A system which senses changes and provides feedback could give people with diabetes the reassurance that their feet are safe.”
Professor Game, Consultant Diabetologist, Royal Derby Hospital
Business innovation depends on the latest technology.
We create a business environment equipped for the challenges and opportunities of new technologies and ways of doing business.
We are feeding digital leaders into the working world, by training our students the key skills employers are looking for.
For example our The Bloomberg Financial Lab uses data simulation to test the effect of trade conditions on real-world financial market data.
"The introduction of the new Bloomberg Financial lab at the University played a big role in confirming my decision to study at this University.
Throughout my three years at the University each module has taken full advantage of using the Bloomberg facilities to study company data, markets and other data – this has been detrimental in shaping my understanding of the course throughout.
The ability to use the Bloomberg facility has enabled me to gain a Bloomberg Market Concepts certificate, which is an extra course available to students at this University, covering topics such as currencies, fixed income and equities.
I have also received a certificate for competing within a trading challenge, which was only possible through the opportunity to learn and experience portfolio management and equities in the Bloomberg financial lab at the University."
Jake Gonella, BA (Hons) Economics for Business graduate
We are a proud partner of the Midlands Enterprise Universities (MEU) , a partnership of six entrepreneurial universities working together to support the Midlands Engine for Growth.
The ambition is to drive productivity and growth in the Midlands through skills, innovation and enterprise.
On the 5 December we will be with the MEU for the Digital Capabilities, Joining Forces to Create Solutions  As well as showcasing the universities’ combined skills and expertise, the event will focus on the importance of embracing digital change, the challenges businesses may face and how to overcome them.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/rric:
Our Rail Research and Innovation Centre supports collaborative research and innovation projects with rail supply chains.
The objective is to drive up productivity, sustainability and growth.
We do this by stimulating the adoption of new technologies and techniques within the rail industry, providing a local support infrastructure and enhancing investment.
The centre encourages innovation and collaboration between the knowledge base and rail supply businesses within the Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire rail supply chains.
With Derby now named as the national headquarters of Great British Railways (GBR HQ), we are able to strengthen our collaboration within the sector and look to have significant involvement in future projects.
Our expertise means we can contribute to the development of capabilities, skills and applied research needed to secure national and international opportunities.
With access to Europe’s largest rail hub right on the doorstep and the GBR HQ within our city, we offer our students fantastic opportunities to develop their career in the sector.
We provide access to three technology demonstrator areas:
Our support programmes help small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) access facilities, develop or improve skills and complete collaborative research and innovation projects.
We are based at Lonsdale House in Derby.
We provide access to research and innovation equipment and capabilities.
You can also access strategic facilities in the Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering (IISE).
These include design, digitisation, advanced manufacturing (5-axis simultaneous machining, metal based additive manufacturing and multi-material 3D printing), CAE licensing arrangements for research and development and others.
The rail data analytics and artificial intelligence area provides:
Strategic facilities and expertise available in the IISE and the College of Science and Engineering include asset management and digital twin (virtual simulation) applications.
The advanced rail solutions area provides software and hardware for simulation, data acquisition and control.
We also have a laboratory-scale test bed for testing and hardware-in-the-loop.
The IISE and the College of Engineering and Technology provide additional expertise in materials, advanced manufacturing and systems to help develop projects for low carbon, energy efficient propulsion, regenerative braking and hybrid solutions.
Equipment and concepts can be demonstrated and the test bed provides a practical platform for skills development.
We can provide your business with the facilities and expertise to support growth and innovation in your sector.
Benefits include:
For more information about the RRIC, or to get involved, email businesshub@derby.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 800 001 5500 .
The ground-breaking HyDEX project is responding to calls from the rail freight industry to accelerate the transition to net zero.
The Innovate 4 Rail project has been created to stimulate and support innovation and drive productivity among small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) in the Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire (D2N2) Rail Sector Supply Chains.
DE-Carbonise offers a comprehensive programme of assistance for SMEs seeking to reduce their carbon emissions in operations, production and supply chain.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/shed:
Welcome to S.H.E.D (Social Higher Education Depot), a flexible structure designed to engage, inspire, and cultivate ideas and dialogue.
S.H.E.D is a research and innovation space that engages with lifelong learning, public engagement and teaching through creative industry and cultural practice.
Since its inception S.H.E.D has worked on 27 different projects, engaged with over 42896 people and worked with over 40 partner organisations in 6 UK cities and over 12 countries.
S.H.E.D can adapt to multiple possible configurations, all co-designed - it can be what you want it to be.
It is a space that invites action through socially, politically and culturally charged practice.
Its flexibility supports diversity, designs for dialogues and untold stories, from multidisciplinary fields, from and for all people, especially from those that usually do not have a voice.
It has been designed for the shedding of preconceptions of people and place.
In 2025 S.H.E.D was one of the few recipiences of the new, first of its kind, Arc Accelerator award.
We invite you to collaborate and co-create with S.H.E.D.
We work with cultural venues and public providers to bridge the gap between the arts and higher education.
S.H.E.D is delivered by Designing Dialogue CiC (community interest company), the first spin-out company from the University of Derby.
Find out more at We Are S.H.E.D
View S.H.E.D trailer video transcript
Dr Rhiannon Jones is an artist-researcher and thought leader in Social and Design innovation through Civic Practice based at University of Derby.
In 2012, she co-founded the artistic research network InDialogue, an international artists' research network that has commissioned and curated four international symposia and artist residencies.
As founding CEO of Designing Dialogue CIC in 2019, Dr Jones co-created S.H.E.D, a unique public arts space co-designed with communities and providing a platform for emerging and established practitioners and artists.
S.H.E.D is a collaborative initiative with a wide range of stakeholders that works strategically with large organisations such as the Football Association Charitable Trusts, local authorities, National Museums, Design Council, Arts Council England, Derby Opportunity Area, higher-education sector and creative industries to stimulate debate on regenerative place-making.
S.H.E.D stands for The Social Higher Education Depot, reflecting its position as a social and transient, yet expansive and dynamic space.
It is a mobile shed that acts as a bridge between Higher Education and the public in a safe and inclusive way.
The concept for S.H.E.D was developed in 2019 in partnership with a core team of ‘shedders’, including Dr Victoria Barker, Sarah Webb, Simon Burrows and Barend Slabbert and a group of stakeholders.
They have created 32 possible S.H.E.D configurations (and counting) as an initiative to generate opportunities for people to talk.
Sheds are safe, familiar, common spaces that can also spark curiosity.
S.H.E.D explores creative place-making as a methodology to address civic, societal and economic issues through the design of a unique site for public discourse.
It does this by creating innovation projects that embed teaching and learning opportunities through research.
This is manifested through co-designing bespoke S.H.E.D environments for performative, sporting, cultural and artistic engagement; and achieved in partnership with students, stakeholders, local authorities, policy makers, academics and the business sector.
Meet the stakeholders
Barend Slabbert is a Senior Lecturer and Programme Leader for the BA (Hons) Interior Design Programme.
He has taught both in Cape Town and London before joining the University of Derby in 2017.
He specialises in exhibition and conference set-stage design, and is interested in the responsive adaptation of significant historical interiors to contemporary exhibition spaces.
You can contact the S.H.E.D team at hello@weareshed.co.uk .
You can follow S.H.E.D's work on social media:
Find out more about S.H.E.D projects
The work of S.H.E.D has attended to building individual, organisational and community impact as the design continually adapts.
Although always driven by artistic practice, the design responds to civic need - from individuals and communities - and is being informed by people and place.
Its core purpose is as a reconfigurable space, driven by the research question into how we design for dialogue through cultural and creative innovation in order to support communities, and our stakeholders' and collaborators' needs in order to understand the culture of a place.
It is through that activity that we are able to present at policy level the impact of this way of working.
Driven by a clear focus, it uses culture as a driver for change on place-based local concerns through to Global issues of sustainable development, climate crisis, social, economic and political issues providing solutions, ideas and questions.
Dr Rhiannon Jones discusses how S.H.E.D developed from her research.
View how S.H.E.D developed video transcript
We’ve developed opportunities for over 700 creatives and 500 young people, we’ve showcased over 50 new works, engaging over a dozen schools and reaching in excess of 55,000 members of the public.
S.H.E.D is touring nationally on average eight months of the year, with international research partners and international interest.
It is a fantastic example of cultural innovation, grounded in academic knowledge exchange and anchored by a sense of civic responsibility.
As Dr Rhiannon Jones describes it, it is "a labour of love, blood, sweat, tears and splinters".
Team S.H.E.D are social design innovators.
We were invited by CHEAD (Council for Higher Education in Art and Design) to address a seminar on atypical leadership and we worked with them on their annual CHEAD conference , creating a virtual S.H.E.D for delegates to come to speak with us online during the conference during the peak of lockdown.
We also spoke about Design for Emergency , during the pandemic, framing S.H.E.D as an open design challenge for UK-based designers and artists to test out some of the internationally proposed designs generated because of this research initiative.
S.H.E.D continues to work with researchers and stakeholders to galvanise on its civic and social responsibility, as a university spin out company, to provide a unique opportunity for people to talk about what matters to them.
And the research activity unearthed the desire from the public to bring change on many urgent matters, not least climate change.
We share a common purpose and that is echoed here in Derby, as a civic university in a UNESCO City of Lifelong Learning , who knows what configurations and conversations are yet to be co-designed!
Recent projects have included the Machines of the Future, a Creative Engineering Summer School delivered in partnership with UK New Artists in which young people between the ages of 13 and 17 were designed their own creations with cutting-edge digital software.
At Timber Festival 2024, Shedders facilitated a Micro S.H.E.D workshop, where children and adults alike were invited to design and build their own sustainable miniature S.H.E.D model and consider what would go in theirs to help save the planet.
In addition, the thought-provoking ‘Shedding Light on Long Covid’ exhibition and programme of events was designed to engage local communities in the latest long Covid research.
It featured a diverse range of artworks created by local and national artists, including community podcasts, photography, live performance, online and in-person workshops inspired by research data.
View Machines of the Future Showcase video transcript
The Civic team and S.H.E.D were commissioned to design and deliver for Derbyshire County Council their public engagement of the first Local Nature Recovery Strategy (LNRS) for Derbyshire and the City of Derby.
The strategy will set out where and how we can improve, enhance and make space for nature in our area.
View Shedding Light on Nature Recovery video transcript
“It is a garden shed but it’s been transformed and, by being transformed, it can be transformative.
It’s not just about the actual shed and the physical, practical side but the fact it’s a mobile arts space and it’s about the people and the community.
S.H.E.D is a vehicle to bring people together.
There’s 101 things that S.H.E.D will be and will do.” Ben Anderson, S.H.E.D Creative Producer
“This is a fascinating project because it’s going to enable local communities, in the strangest of places, to engage with artists in the strangest of ways.
We’re going to find out a lot about those communities and those places in ways we’ve not anticipated.” Dr Nick Owen, CEO of The Mighty Creatives
"Inspiration Exchange needs a partner who understands the value and context of the work, and the S.H.E.D team definitely provide that.
The S.H.E.D itself is a great context, physically.
The Exchange needs a space that is definably its own, so participants feel contained but it also needs to be open, to be observable from a distance to entice a passing audience, to allow people to drop in.
The Shed provides this public intimacy or privacy very well." Dr Alex Kelly, Reader at Leeds Beckett University and Third Angel Co-Artistic Director
"Derby Cathedral was delighted to host S.H.E.D and support DerbyVoice project.
It’s so important that the voices of young people are heard and that they have a safe space to express their concerns, perceptions and dreams." The Very Revd Dr Peter Robinson, Dean of Derby
"Derby is my home, yet I’ve felt for a long time that I have never made many impactful contributions in my community as an artist until now.
The S.H.E.D installation has given me an opportunity to display art to the public within my community that I believe can help change perspectives about some of the biggest issues in modern societies all around the world, such as Black Lives Matter and cultural interpretations of gender." Mthabisi Mlauzi, Youth Shed Artist
"The impact of this will run deeply as the students, staff and school community more widely will be challenged in a different way, raising curiosity and developing their sense of intrigue and wonder.
I have no doubt that having the S.H.E.D project in school for a week will provide lasting memories and great, shared experiences for our school community to treasure." Debbie Gerring, Head Teacher at St Martins School in Derby
"The S.H.E.D provided an adaptable, familiar and informal context within which the young people could perform and have their voices and opinions heard in a public setting.
The team created a bespoke version of the S.H.E.D which really supported the performance and the young people, who weren't experienced performers, to feel confident about performing in an outdoors setting to a large audience." The Paper Birds Theatre Company and Plus One
"We are thrilled to work with S.H.E.D.
It is a fantastic platform for young people in our city to ensure their voices are heard.
It links perfectly with the Inclusion Programme we are leading on which aims to support children and young people at risk of exclusion.
Youth voice is a key part of this work and it’s critical that we understand and listen to the needs of all young people." Jo Wilkinson, Inclusion Manager, Derby County Community Trust
"The whole premise of the project is about creating a space for people to talk about things that need to be said.
And also to have a space that could navigate different types of spaces whether that's streets, neighbourhoods, city centres, rural locations, being in a gallery as a physical sculpture or whether it's outside as a venue that would morph and change its structure to support what needs to be said." Dr Rhiannon Jones, S.H.E.D Creative Director
"As part of the Family Hub Derby initiative, we have been delighted to work with the University of Derby and S.H.E.D to bring our Nature Connectiveness workshops to families at Timber Festival.
These workshops are aimed at supporting families with children aged two and younger across the city, and it’s a fantastic opportunity for families to connect with their babies in nature." Alix Manning-Jones, Family Hub Programme Manager
S.H.E.D's project partners are Derby Theatre, theatre development programme In Good Company, Derby County Community Trust, youth development organisation This Is Derby, Derby's Cultural Education Partnership's Cultural Campus, arts organisation Primary, In Dialogue, arts venue Nottingham Contemporary, the Expanded Studio Project and the East Midlands Contemporary Visual Arts Network.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/knowledge-exchange:
At the University of Derby we are committed to supporting the local community and work closely with businesses and organisations to deliver applied research and knowledge exchange.
The University is the only higher education institution in Derbyshire and our Strategic Plan articulates our role of ‘Being a Force for Positive Impact’ on the economic, social, cultural, educational and environmental prosperity of our home.
Our collaborative approach has enabled organisations to benefit from access to industry expertise, graduate talent and higher-level skills.
Our Knowledge Exchange provides an indication of the University’s engagement with businesses and community and below are just a few examples of successful partnership delivery.
The University of Derby has been working closely with immersive technology firm Bloc Digital.
A package of business support, research expertise and student and graduate talent.
The partnership has enabled SureScreen to create a new revenue stream, new jobs, and most recently, to make a significant contribution to the global fight against Covid-19.
During the pandemic, our research engineers have been working with local NHS trusts and Riverside Medical Packaging Ltd, to design and manufacture face shields for healthcare staff.
‘DE-Carbonise’ is our most recent collaboration with Derby City and Derbyshire County Councils.
The project only began in late 2019.
We have provided a wide range of support including R&D collaborations with rail companies, a new research centre specialising in rail, knowledge exchange collaborations.
Capital funding, collaborative research and innovation are just some of the ways we have helped manufacturing firm, Penny Hydraulics, expand, innovate and diversify its product offer.
Knowledge exchange projects, CPD, graduate recruitment and mentoring have all helped this company to expand and enhance its skills base.
AIS have been producing and developing support software for the airport industry for the past 30 years.
Recently they have worked with us on succession planning, new skills development and networking.
To find out how the University of Derby could support your organisation, contact businessgateway@derby.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/top-200-derbyshire-businesses:
Every year, researchers from our Business School compile a list of the top 200 businesses in Derby and Derbyshire.
Based on revenue, the ranking showcases some of the companies driving our local economy and often highlights some interesting growth sectors and place-based clusters.
The Top 200 listing ranks all active, private sector businesses in Derby and Derbyshire by turnover — a simple but powerful indicator of business growth and relative positioning.
This list feeds into the East Midlands Top 500 companies league table.
It's compiled using publicly available information for the last financial period, including data from Companies House and the Fame database.
To qualify for the Top 200, companies must have:
Researchers from our Business School have compiled the annual list of the top 200 businesses in Derby and Derbyshire, based on revenue for 2023.
This Top 200 listing ranks all active, private sector businesses in Derby and Derbyshire by turnover - a simple but powerful indicator of business growth and relative positioning published July 2022.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/partnerships:
We collaborate with academic, industry, and public sector partners to deliver real world impact.
These partnerships enhance our teaching and research, help us to broaden access to higher education, and to improve the student learning experience.
Explore our network and recent collaborations in the sections.
We collaborate with academic partners to enhance our teaching and research, help us to broaden access to higher education, and to improve the student learning experience.
Find out about our international progression partners and the programmes they offer.
The University of Derby has a number of industry partnerships from across the region, accelerating our impact through collaborations and shared objectives.
Derby is committed to welcoming and producing global citizens by creating life-changing learning experiences for staff and students.
The University is continuously developing its portfolio of Student ...

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovate-uk-funding:
Innovate UK is the UK’s Innovation Agency with a remit to support businesses to grow through Innovation .
Much of this support is targeted through a range of different themed funding calls that supports the collaborative development and commercialisation of new; Products, Processes and Services .
Innovate UK is the UK's innovation agency.
They help businesses drive productivity and economic growth by supporting them to commercialise new products, processes and services.
Find out more about the latest Innovate UK funding opportunities.
Innovate UK Smart Grants are another Innovate UK funding scheme providing research and development funding for disruptive, innovative projects in any industry sector.
Smart grants support projects that demonstrate:
Smart Grants can support; feasibility studies, Industrial Research or Experimental development.
With project costs between £100K and £2M, these can be substantial developments as part of a wider consortium of partners.
The Knowledge Exchange team at the University of Derby can support you to access Innovate UK funding and collaborate with our academic teams, utilising our world-leading research and technology to gain a competitive edge.
One of Innovate UK’s most successful and long-standing funding schemes is the Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) .
The KTP scheme supports your business to collaborate with academics at the University of Derby to tackle a specific business challenge.
Through access to University; research, knowledge and Technology, we will collaboratively develop a solution that supports your business to grow and launch new products or services onto the market.
The scheme will support UK-based businesses or Charities (of any size), all you need is a clearly defined business challenge or opportunity.
Each KTP can be between 12 to 36 months long.
As part of the KTP, together we will recruit a high-calibre recent graduate (known as the Associate) who will be employed by the University but based full-time at your company to deliver the project under the supervision of an academic team.
The University provides ongoing support for the duration of the project to ensure the successful delivery of objectives and outcomes for the partnership.
If you would like to find out how your business can work with the University of Derby and apply for Innovate UK funding, our Knowledge Exchange team can support you and how you can collaborate with our academic teams.
Get in touch with our team

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/skills-brokerage-service:
Funded by Chesterfield UK Shared Prosperity Fund, the Skills Brokerage Service offers free impartial advice, providing dedicated support to identify skills gaps and help with a wide range of workforce development needs.
Whether you're looking to upskill your workforce, identify gaps in training, or find funding for development opportunities, we provide expert support every step of the way.
Our consultants understand that developing the right skills within your team is crucial to your organisation’s success.
Why choose our Skills Brokerage Service?
I'm really pleased to have met Natalie and Brendan.
Both were incredibly helpful and the insights provided are opening valuable opportunities for the business.
Go and have a chat with them, what do you have to lose?
We begin with a comprehensive consultation to understand your organisation’s unique needs.
Our expert advisors will work with you to assess your current skillset, identify any gaps, and explore opportunities for growth.
Following the consultation, we will  provide you with a bespoke report outlining your organisation's skills needs.
This report will offer clear recommendations on the training and development programmes that will make the biggest impact on your team’s performance.
We will connect you with both funded and unfunded training courses and opportunities.
Whether you’re looking for vocational qualifications, apprenticeships, or professional development workshops, we’ll help you find the right solution to meet your goals.
We recognise that our engagement with your organisation will be the start of a journey, and that you will need further support as your organisation faces new challenges.
We will be there every step of the way to support you on your journey.
Take the first step towards a more skilled, efficient, and successful workforce today.
Contact us for a consultation by calling:
T: 01246 210351
or complete the form below to get started.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/executive-education-:
We help people and businesses to thrive and grow.
Whether you are interested in bespoke workplace learning, developing your business strategy or plugging a skills gap, we are able to assist you.
As we have worked with businesses of all sizes across various industries, we have flexible development opportunities to suit the needs of your organisation.
We take you beyond the qualifications and prepare you for the business career you’ve always aspired to.
Further enhance your workforce with our Leadership and Management Degree Apprenticeships.
The programmes have been designed to equip your employees with leadership, project management and strategic th...
Accelerate your career and update your skills with professional courses in business and management.
Our sustainable and ethical programmes are for progressive businesspeople who want to reposition their organisation for a better future.
We are experts in bespoke learning: customised learning solutions that empower and drive high performance in individuals, leadership teams and organisations.
Discover our upcoming business events.
We provide education and training that's relevant to the modern workforce, as well as offering funding and support that will help your business to grow, adapt and innovate.
It has been a pleasure to witness participants develop their knowledge and skills over the duration of the programme, in particular the application of theory to real scenarios and holistic thinking.
The feedback from the participants continues to be very positive as the programme goes from strength to strength.
Holcim, a global leader in innovative and sustainable building solutions, reached out to the University of Derby for a company programme that would apply academic theory in the context of their business, including areas such as Marketing, Operations Management, Finance and Strategy.
As Academic Manager, Matthew Bromley has a strong history of programme development within Business subjects and is focused on innovations in teaching.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/innovation-accelerator:
The University of Derby in partnership with Derby City Council has opened a second phase of the Derby Innovation Accelerator.
The project will provide five key themes of support, including innovation vouchers, capital grants, business challenge workshops, start up support and incubation space.
Complete the form below to register your interest.
Innovation Vouchers to support access to University of Derby innovation assets, knowledge and expertise
Capital grants to stimulate private sector investment in capital assets that support research and development
Launching challenges and drawing together potential collaborators.
The challenges will focus on strengthening the identified key sectors for Derby
Start up support will focus on creating sustainable, investable businesses within Derby city
Opportunities for hot-desking, meeting rooms/studio space, group coaching and mentorship
The UK Shared Prosperity Fund was launched in April 2022 to replace EU funding.
The fund aims to boost communities, support local businesses and improve skills.
The Derby Innovation Accelerator will provide:
The Derby Innovation Accelerator will provide innovation support to:
(* high growth defined as evidence of, or ambition to grow, by at least 20% staff and/or turnover)
View Derby Innovation Accelerator video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/promoting-sustainable-performance:
Are you looking to grow your business?
Your organisation has the power to drive a thriving regional economy and strengthen your community.
But growth isn’t always easy as challenges like skills shortages, funding, innovation, and strategic planning can hold you back.
We’re here to help you overcome them.
To support organisations address and navigate obstacles, Professor Mark Gilman has developed Promoting Sustainable Performance (PSP), a diagnostic tool focused on helping organisations grow quicker, work better, and perform more competitively.
Every organisation has its own business journey.
We aim to assist you to be better positioned to make informed decisions about the best ways to build long term growth.
We understand that for many of you:
Imagine having the right infrastructure, stronger relationships with customers and suppliers, and strategic investments in technology and talent.
With the right approach, you can drive productivity, innovate processes, and achieve rapid growth through smart cost management and cutting-edge technology.
Let’s make it happen.
Our PSP Diagnostic is developed to help you understand and start thinking differently about the growth of your company.
Start transforming yourself to be resilient and strategic.
Improve your competitive advantage by thinking about:
This online analysis will be used to enhance our insight into organisational growth, so that we can continue to support the local business community.
More importantly, it supports you and your business directly.
By participating, you will benefit from:
You can access the PSP tool straight away.
Simply follow the link below and complete the questions to receive your tailor-made report.
Access the PSP tool
My purpose is to build a robust evidence base to inform economic and social policy deliberations, engage with people and businesses and produce analysis to support engagement with nation.
If you require further information, please get in touch with our dedicated Business Gateway team:
Email : businessgateway@derby.ac.uk
Telephone: 0800 001 5500
Alternatively, if you wish to speak with Professor Mark Gilman you can contact him directly:
Email: m.gilman@derby.ac.uk
PSP has successfully supported organisational development in Kent, The West Midlands, Canada, Indonesia and Calgary.
Previous participants saw benefits of increased revenue and employment following involvement.
It also helped improve how organisations manage relationships and networks and develop practices to branch into new markets.
Paul Cheetham, Director of Blind Screen shares how the PSP diagnostic has impacted the organisation.
“Mark has been instrumental in transforming our business strategy, identifying overlooked opportunities, and solidifying our path to scale.
This has enable us to exceed the ambitious targets we set for growth.”
PSP is open to organisations based in the Derby/Derbyshire, regardless of age or sector.
All data collected is treated confidentially in accordance with data protection standards.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/de-carbonise-project/case-study-tech-air-solutions:
Nottinghamshire-based Microtech Filters and their new venture, Tech Air Solutions , have benefitted from fully-funded research through the DE-Carbonise project.
This research is informing the development of the company’s cleaning air solution, which aims to create localised clean air zones.
Air pollution is a growing problem in towns and cities around the world.
But a team at Tech Air Solutions is attempting to improve the situation by developing a set of 'smart bollards', which clean the air at locations where there is a high density of traffic and people.
Co-Founder, Andrew Thompson, explains how the idea came about: “It all started when I saw a BBC Inside Out programme that said at McDonalds drive-throughs, air pollution was 25% higher on average than elsewhere.
I conducted my own research and found that whilst many councils are now measuring air quality levels and implementing Clean Air Zones, there are very few solutions that actually directly improve air quality in specific outside spaces where traffic and people mix.”
“So working with Paddy Moore and my colleagues at Microtech Filters, we came up with the idea of Tech Air Solutions: smart bollards fitted with filters, fans and connected with realtime air quality data using sensors and Internet of Things (IoT) technologies, which could actually improve the surrounding air quality in high pollution hotspots, effectively cleaning the air.
High-density traffic hotspots include outside schools, fast food and coffee drive-throughs, in train stations or on platforms, and at bus stations or stops.”
The company developed an oversized mobile engineering prototype to test the concept.
The bollard draws in air, monitors it, cleans it via a Microtech Air Filter, and then emits cleaner air.
Early tests were very successful and positive, indicating that the device could reduce particulate matter 2.5 levels by up to 40%.
However, Andrew wanted to better understand the science behind it and gather evidence.
View About Tech Air Solutions video transcript
Having worked with the University before through the D2N2 Invest to Grow scheme , Andrew approached our organisation again in early 2021.
The firm was awarded 70 hours of fully-funded research time through our DE-Carbonise Project , a programme set up to help local SMEs increase sustainability.
Dr Hirbod Varasteh, Low Carbon Researcher, supported by Dr Shahed Motaman, Lecturer in Motorsport Engineering, produced a CFD (Computational Fluid Dynamics) model of the bollard to simulate air flow through the filter and estimate the performance of it.
The aim was also to optimise energy use.
The researchers then made recommendations on how to improve air flow pattern, design, and performance.
Andrew summarises how this work benefitted them:
“The CFD model was fantastic for us; it was instrumental.
It showed how particulates move through the bollard, their velocity and how they are distributed when they exit the bollard, within an area of two cubic metres.
This research indicates we can locate the bollards approximately four metres apart to achieve optimal performance and improved air quality.
This research model provides important evidence to show interested parties."
“The researchers also made some recommendations about how to make the fan more efficient and reduce the load on it, and we aim to take those recommendations forward in the next phase.”
Tech Air Solutions also thinks that smart bollard owners may want to show visitors at the locations how they are improving air quality, by displaying graphical information on a nearby screen.
The company is now keen for the Government's Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) to follow the new recommended WHO guidelines for Air Quality and to introduce these in the UK by 2030.
For more information about Tech Air Solutions' smart bollard, you can email Info@tech-air-solutions.co.uk .
DE-Carbonise is a three year collaboration between the University of Derby, Derby City Council and Derbyshire County Council, which started in November 2019.
The collaboration is funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and follows on from the successful D2 Energy Efficiency/Low Carbon project.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/innovate-for-rail/electric-innovation:
Electrical design consultancy Electric Innovation , based in Nottingham, has secured funded technical support and expertise from our Innovate 4 Rail programme .
This is enabling the company to carry out research on faults in solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, so that it can develop solutions to protect against these.
All sectors, including rail, are being encouraged to switch to renewable energies such as solar power, as the UK aims to become carbon neutral by 2050.
However, the use of solar PV systems in rail is still in its infancy.
If it is to be more widely adopted, we need to improve our understanding and detection of faults in solar PV systems, to increase their reliability, efficiency, and safety.
This is the basis of a research collaboration between the consultancy, Electric Innovation, and the University of Derby’s researchers in renewable and smart energy systems.
Thanks to funding provided by the Innovate 4 Rail project, our researchers are providing over 170 hours of support to the company, for phases 1 and 2 of this project.
This includes access to technical expertise as well as specialist computers and software.
A researcher from the University, Dr Uchenna Diala , explains the aims of the project: “Solar PV systems produce direct current (DC) power which can be used in low voltage applications, such as charging batteries, automotive applications, and other low voltage, low current applications.
The DC power can also be converted to alternating current (AC) power for use by home appliances or transmission to the National Grid.
While AC power faults and their impacts on electrical loads are well established, faults that occur on the DC side are not, so this will be the focus of our investigation.”
During phase 1 of the project, the team developed analytical and simulation models of a solar PV system.
During phase 2, they will be using these models to simulate common DC faults in solar PV systems.
They will then examine how these faults affect the I-V characteristic curve (a measure of Current versus Voltage) and P-V characteristic curve (Power versus Voltage) — both of which provide important information about the performance of solar PV systems.
The hope is that the findings will enable Electric Innovation to develop solutions to mitigate or protect against such faults.
The results of this study are expected by the end of 2021.
Chris Rose, Director of Electric Innovation said: “The drive for more efficient and renewable technologies is introducing new problems for electricity supply and distribution – this applies to rail as much as any other industry.
As a forward-thinking company, we want to be at the forefront of addressing these emerging issues.
Our collaboration with the University of Derby through Innovate 4 Rail has been immensely valuable, giving us access to the expertise we need to fully understand electrical faults with solar energy systems and to develop new and innovative solutions for the next generation of circuit protection.”
Innovate 4 Rail offers a range of funded support to Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire SMEs, with the intention of stimulating innovation and driving productivity in the rail sector.
It's a collaborative project between the University of Derby, University of Birmingham and Rail Forum Midlands and is funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/riverside-medical-packaging:
During the pandemic, our research engineers have been working with local NHS trusts and a Derby-based SME, Riverside Medical Packaging Ltd , to design and manufacture face shields for healthcare staff caring for patients with Covid-19.
As well as supporting the national effort to combat the virus, this collaboration is helping to establish a resilient local supply chain for personal protective equipment (PPE) and furthering our knowledge about what makes an optimum face shield.
This project is another example of the University’s civic engagement with our community, businesses and essential services, at a time when it is so vital to work together to confront this crisis.
After being approached by the University Hospital of Derby and Burton NHS Foundation Trust, researchers from our Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering (IISE) designed and produced both single-use and reusable visors.
These are compliant with the Grade 1 Medical Device standard (EN ISO 166/168) and can be mass manufactured for use in the short-term.
Riverside Medical Packaging has collaborated with us to manufacture the face shields.
They have enlisted the help of other local suppliers to source some of the component parts and so a local supply chain has been established.
This has been a mutually beneficial relationship: our University has benefitted from the company’s experience with product approval and business and manufacturing practice, while Riverside has benefitted from our rigorous testing and user evaluations of various face shields, including their own ‘DispoShield’ design.
While developing prototypes, the team at IISE found that while certain requirements were clearly defined in the standards — such as the shield’s ability to resist droplets of liquid — others were not; for example, the “one size fits all” requirement for the single-use face shield.
IISE developed new mechanical testing protocols for the components, to identify designs and materials that delivered the best balance of all the competing needs: protection and compliance, the universal sizing, comfort, and packaging restrictions.
Our human factors researchers are also carrying out user evaluation by NHS professionals with the support of our Health & Social Care team.
The University’s research team at IISE is working to publish their findings in peer-reviewed journals, with the aim of informing an amendment to existing publicly available standards for PPE.
Research in this area continues, and IISE is still developing new test methods to ensure PPE is suitable for more of the healthcare population.
IISE are also continuing user trials to evaluate the various design options.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/innovation-research/blind-screen:
Blind Screen , a leading blinds manufacturer with over 20 years of industry experience, has been on a remarkable growth trajectory.
Specialising in premium honeycomb blackout and mesh blinds, the company is dedicated to enhancing comfort, energy efficiency, and sustainability.
With a relentless commitment to innovation, Blind Screen continues to create cutting-edge solutions that meet the evolving needs of both homes and businesses.
A crucial element of Blind Screen success has been its partnership with the University of Derby.
With the expert support of Professor Mark Gilman , Blind Screen has sharpened its business strategy, scaled up rapidly, and built a solid foundation for the future.
Paul Cheetham, Marketing Director of Blind Screen emphasised Mark’s guidance transformed the organisation as they exceeded ambitious objectives.
“Mark has been instrumental in transforming our business strategy, identifying overlooked opportunities, and solidifying our path to scale.”
Under Mark's guidance, Blind Screen achieved an extraordinary sevenfold growth year-over-year.
This rapid expansion was the result of a clear, structured plan that leveraged both strategic insights and industry expertise.
“Mark’s insights helped uncover untapped opportunities and put a structured plan in place to keep the momentum going.”
Most importantly, Mark worked closely with the company to define and embed its core purpose, vision, and values, ensuring these principles are at the heart of every decision and action.
The company’s newfound focus has allowed Blind Screen to tackle its ambitious growth targets with confidence.
By embedding these core values across the organisation, Blind Screen’s team is aligned and committed to their long-term vision, which has enabled them to thrive even amid the challenges of scaling.
Scaling up a business is never without its hurdles.
For Blind Screen, the challenges included managing rapid growth while maintaining operational efficiency and aligning the expanding team with the company’s core mission.
Mark’s industry expertise, paired with his extensive network, proved invaluable in navigating these obstacles.
He developed a comprehensive framework to prioritise key operational areas, helping Blind Screen implement targeted management tactics and growth initiatives.
“Mark’s leadership extended to heading a specialised research team investigating the impact of Blind Screen products on carbon reduction across UK properties, with a particular focus on single-glazed installations.”
This research highlighted how Blind Screen’s products could help the UK government achieve its Net Zero targets, a topic they presented at the prestigious Blind Screen Sustainability Path to Net Zero event at the House of Commons.
By focusing on the intersection of sustainability and innovation, Blind Screen is ensuring that every step of its expansion is both strategic and environmentally conscious.
Their continued efforts in sustainability, guided by Mark’s leadership, will not only support the company’s growth but also make a significant contribution to the industry.
The University of Derby’s support has gone beyond business strategy.
Aaron Gordon, from the Derby Innovation Accelerator (DIA) project, played a key role in securing £25,000 in funding for Blind Screen’s ground-breaking ZEDDFIT product which was showcased at the House of Parliament .
This funding supported the purchase of essential tooling and moulds, enabling the company to accelerate its product development.
Aaron emphasised the collaboration has been incredibly rewarding.
“Our work with Blind Screen through the DIA project has been the latest funding provided to the business, and from my experience it has been a pleasure to work with them.”
Aaron believes Blind Screen will continue to make innovative progress and hope to collaborate in the future.
“Blind Screen operate in a way that even though they are working on complex projects and initiatives, they can simplify this in a way that even someone not from the Blinds Industry can understand easily.”
Blind Screen has established relations with the University of Derby to further develop work in advanced design and manufacturing technologies, creating opportunities for student placements and /or Masters projects.
As Blind Screen continues to innovate and expand, its partnership with the University of Derby remains a cornerstone of its success.
With a clear vision, a solid strategy, and the backing of an esteemed academic institution, Paul emphasises that Blind Screen is prepared for even greater achievements in the future.
"The collaboration with the university has been an incredible opportunity to refine our product and bring new expertise into the business."
With Mark’s expert guidance and support, Blind Screen is not only scaling rapidly but also leading the charge in sustainability within the blinds industry.
Additionally, Sophie Beer from the University of Derby worked with Blind Screen through the Accelerated Knowledge Transfer Partnership (AKTP) to co-design the ZEDDFIT product.
Sophie highlighted the partnership has provided academic expert and associates valuable experience in delivering practical solutions for real-world industry applications.
“We are delighted that the project has enabled Blind Screen to enhance their future product developments and we’re looking forward to seeing their continued success in the industry."
MSc Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering programme leader Dr Jilin Ye emphasised the collaboration with Blind Screen involved identifying primary technical challenges faced by Small and Medium Enterprises in the manufacturing industry and having full capabilities to provide practical solutions using academic knowledge, expertise and skills.
All associates involved in the project worked together to create a good business model which brought benefits to both parties.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/de-carbonise-project:
The DE-Carbonise project helped small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire increase their sustainability and save money by reducing energy costs and carbon emissions.
Find out more about the project.
Funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), DE-Carbonise delivered a business support programme to SMEs in the East Midlands of the UK between 2016-2022.
It was led by the University of Derby, in collaboration with Derby City and Derbyshire County Councils that extended the earlier D2 Energy Efficiency/Low Carbon project and the BESPOKE energy efficiency scheme.
DE-Carbonise provided:
Low-carbon, sustainable and pro-environmental business is particularly important to our region and has seen significant and steady growth over the last decade.
The Low Carbon Business Podcast includes guest speakers from experts in carbon reduction and pro-environmental business leaders paving the way for a greener future.
If you’re looking for support with reducing your footprint, tune in and start your low carbon journey.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/enscite:
Enscite ran until June 2023 and was funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
It was developed in partnership with the University of Derby and Aston University.
The programme supported Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) within the aerospace, rail or automotive supply chain.
Hear from some of the companies Enscite has helped — from fledgling start-ups to more established firms — and find out what impact this support has had.
We would strongly recommend businesses seek the support of Enscite.
The process was quick and efficient and the networking and business it has generated has been a resounding success.
Business Management and Finance student, Daniel Grady, has just completed a placement year with the Enscite team.
This experience has been valuable not only for Daniel, but also for the project team.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/access-to-funding:
The Invest to Grow programme provides grants and loans of between £15,000 and £250,000 to support private-sector businesses across the East Midlands to innovate, grow and create jobs.
The programme is now funded by the repayment of loans awarded to successful applicants.
For your project to qualify for Invest to Grow funding, you will need to demonstrate that it meets the following criteria:
These are a selection of companies to have received funding from our Invest to Grow programme
Invest to grow provides businesses to access funding support, resulting in business growth and innovation.
View SureScreen: Invest to Grow Funding video transcript
Find out more about the key impacts for businesses supported through the programme
Read these frequently asked questions about the Invest to Grow programme.
The Invest to Grow Programme provides loans and grants to support private sector businesses to innovate, grow, adapt and create jobs.
The programme aims to generate economic activity by investing in enterprise growth and to promote the creation of new jobs and the safeguarding of existing positions.
Projects will need to demonstrate that other avenues of support and funding have been explored and why Invest to Grow funding is vital to the project going ahead.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), large enterprises, sole traders and partnerships.
Funding is available for projects that will create new jobs and where these jobs can be sustained for a minimum of three years (five years for large organisations).
Projects are welcomed that create higher-skilled jobs (at or above NVQ level 4).
The types of projects that Invest to Grow may support include:
The programme is aimed at a variety of sectors including:
Invest to Grow does not support any companies which are business to consumer (B2C) focused, or in the professional services, farm-based agriculture and retail sectors.
All project costs must be exclusive of VAT.
Invest to Grow does not support the purchase of vehicles, stock or ongoing operating costs.
Project costs relating to land and/or building costs for the occupancy and use of the Invest to Grow applicant will only be considered for predominantly loan funding.
Please be aware if your funding application is approved you will be required to provide all the necessary security documentation (i.e.
certificate of title, planning permission) prior to the issue of final contracts.
The minimum award size is £15,000, for which the minimum project cost must be £50,000.
The maximum award size is £250,000, subject to availability of funding at the time.
Loans and grants (or a blend of both) remain available.
The majority of awards are a mix of loan and grant.
Applications where the loan amount requested is higher than the grant amount will stand a greater chance of being successful.
Loans will be provided at an interest rate dependent on the creditworthiness of the applicant and the level of collateralisation.
This will be determined as part of the final due diligence exercise which follows the in-principle funding offer from the Strategic Investment Panel.
Security of a sufficient value to cover the full value of the loan is likely to be required.
This may be in the form of a legal charge over property and/or other fixed assets owned by the applicant.
Please note current demand and competition for the Invest to Grow funding is high and not all applications will be affordable.
Each funding request will be judged on its own merit depending on the availability of funding at the time.
All asset purchases forming part of project proposals must be retained by the applicant organisation for a minimum of 3 years (5 years for larger enterprises).
The tracking of this will form part of the ongoing project monitoring process.
A key criterion for the Invest to Grow programme is that the applicant organisation must be the one that is incurring the project expenditure, retaining ownership of the asset(s), creating the jobs and realising the growth that will come from the successful delivery of the project.
If this is not the case (e.g.
a holding company is intending to purchase some of the assets), please ensure you speak to an Invest to Grow Fund Manager before submission of an Expression of Interest form, since this may render your project ineligible for our funding support.
The Invest to Grow programme operates a two-stage application process beginning with the submission of an Expression of Interest (EOI) form.
If this is successful you will be invited to submit a more comprehensive full application.
Once completed full application forms and supporting documentation have been received you will be allocated to the next available Strategic Investment Panel meeting, where your funding request will be presented by a member of the team.
Subject to receiving in-principle funding approval from the panel, a final due diligence exercise will need to be completed before the formal offer and contracts can be issued.
Due to the current high demand for funding, applicants should allow a minimum of 3 to 6 months for the progression of applications through the entire Invest to Grow process.
As each project will be different, your Invest to Grow contact will provide clearer updates on the timescales once your full application has been received.
All funding applications will be assessed against Invest to Grow criteria with each applicant normally required to provide funding for a minimum of 80% of the total project costs.
This will need to come from private sector sources such as a bank loan, asset finance, company funds or a director's loan.
We only accept project proposals where jobs are going to be created and/or safeguarded.
The value for money of jobs created and/or safeguarded against the funding amount requested is a key consideration for the Invest to Grow programme and its Strategic Investment Panel.
Jobs created must be sustainable for a minimum of 3 years.
Only direct jobs realised or safeguarded within the applicants' organisation and based within the region will be considered.
To ensure job creation output targets are achieved a net increase in the overall company headcount is required from the submission date of the full application.
Please note that zero-hour contracts are ineligible.
A full application to Invest to Grow must be submitted and an in-principle offer issued before work or expenditure on the project can begin.
If work on a project started (i.e.
orders for equipment, offers on a property, recruitment of a new starter) before this date, then it is potentially ineligible for financial support.
Invest to Grow can support projects located within the East Midlands.
All assets purchased on projects, and staff recruited, must also be in the region.
Please note that projects taking place in Staffordshire and South Yorkshire may be eligible for support and applicants are encouraged to speak to the Invest to Grow team to check whether a project is eligible.
Invest to Grow does not charge an arrangement fee.
However, approved projects may be subject to due diligence costs prior to the issuing of contracts.
This is payable by the applicant in advance of the due diligence work commencing.
Whilst applicants are not charged for the drafting of Invest to Grow contracts and security documentation, applicants will be charged any additional fees incurred with solicitors as part of the contracting process where the applicant is seeking clarification or alterations to any of the clauses contained in the precedent agreements or security documentation.
These costs must be settled before any funding can be released.
Once an in-principle funding offer is made by the Strategic Investment Panel, applicants are required to undertake a due diligence exercise to provide more detailed information (e.g.
latest financial and project forecasts, evidence of private sector match funding, evidence of state aid compliance), prior to entering into formal funding contracts with the University of Derby.
Upon receipt of the fully signed contracts and successful registration of any security (if applicable), loan funding can be released.
Grant funding is drawn down upon evidence of defrayal of the eligible project expenditure items and completion of the necessary claim documents.
Please note due to the re-circulating nature of the scheme, funding may not always be available to applicants at the exact time it is requested.
It will be important to discuss with the Invest to Grow team, the timing of your funding release, once funding has been approved.
To find out more about the programme and to receive a copy of our Expression of Interest form and Frequently Asked Questions, please complete the form below:
Register your interest
“Whilst Invest to Grow helped us to grow the business, it also supported us through the early part of the Covid-19 crisis and put us in a great position moving forwards.”
Reg Rudd, Chairman of LTT (Links Labels & Tapes)
“Working with Invest to Grow has broadened our knowledge of the University and how we can engage with it.
It has been a really good experience working with Nic and the team, which has led to us developing a broader relationship with the University in other areas.” Andy Flinn, CEO of RDS Global
“It was a good experience working with the University of Derby regarding Invest to Grow.
We have also subsequently had positive experiences of working with its careers department and now employ a number of the University’s alumni.”
Peter Evans, CEO of Orderly
A case study on myenergi who design and manufacture devices in relation to electric vehicles and they received Invest to Grow funding.
Links Labels and Tapes discusses in this case study how their business evolved with the help of the University's Invest to Grow programme.
Based in Grimsby and founded in 1919, Fowler and Holden provides foundry and engineering services to clients around the world.
They received Invest to Grow funding to enable significant increase in ca...
A group of engineering and business students from the University of Derby recently visited local technology company, BM Tech Ltd, to learn more about plastic recycling.
But this was no ordinary trip!
By completing this form you will receive an Expression of Interest Form and the FAQs.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/productivity-through-innovation:
Productivity through Innovation (PtI)  ran until March 2023 and was funded by the European Regional Development Fund.
It was developed in partnership with the University of Nottingham and Nottingham Trent University.
Find out how we supported some SMEs through the Productivity through Innovation programme.
Our human sciences researchers are working with Soemac which develops medical devices for sufferers COPD to better understand the science behind their product.
Engineering consultancy SCITEK, used funding and support from our Productivity through Innovation programme to recruit a graduate to deliver an R&D project — Read the story.
Citizens Advice Mid Mercia has recently recruited two new Derby interns to help with its digital marketing, thanks to support and funding from the Productivity through Innovation programme.
Our molecular biologists are currently working on a funded research project with an independent laboratory, to try to understand more about how Human Papillomavirus (HPV) causes oropharyngeal cancer: ...
Do you have a new idea for your organisation that you would like a different perspective on?
Perhaps a business problem that you would like support with?
Our consultancy service offers free access to our research and technical experts to help bring innovative new solutions to your organisation.
For further information on other support programmes at the University of Derby please contact our Business Gateway.
T: 0800 001 5500

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/accounting-clinic:
Our Accounting and Finance discipline would like to connect with real life businesses.
We are committed to making our students learning an interactive and applied experience.
We would like to invite SME's and charities to engage with our Accounting Clinic with opportunities for students, that will be helpful to their business and in which students can experience the kind of work their discipline relates to.
The online form at the bottom of this webpage provides you with the option to submit your request / suggest a real-world opportunity based on activity that will benefit your business.
We would then work with you to set this up in the most appropriate means.
Examples of how our Accounting Clinic can work with your business:
For those looking to introduce a more permanent finance solution to their organisation – such as a student placement or graduate role – participating in the clinic sessions offers first-hand experience of how working with our students could benefit you.
The accounting clinic is free to attend, so there is no cost to your organisation.
If you are interested in participating in the Accounting Clinic, please complete the form below and we will be in touch with further details.
Our students regularly have opportunities to gain valuable skills before graduation through real-world briefs.
Third year Accounting and Finance students recently had the chance to present their business solutions to Chatsworth, one of the UK’s most renowned stately homes.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/ascend:
An initiative offered by Derby City Council, designed to assist the most promising Derby city businesses to prepare and implement growth plans.
The programme also offers support in securing investment where appropriate.
Ascend has three programmes for businesses to apply for:
Ascend Investment Readiness - as per growth readiness, but with a focus on developing an investment case, in the form of an Investment Memorandum, which can then be used to begin meaningful discussions with potential equity investors.
Ascend Growth Project - a loan scheme designed to assist in supporting the physical business growth in the form of capital investment in Derby with the ultimate aim to create sustainable new jobs.
This fund enables businesses to invest in projects that would not otherwise happen.
Find out more about the programme

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/create-growth-d2-hub:
Welcome to the Create Growth D2 Hub, where inspiration meets innovation.
The D2 Hub aims to:
At the heart of our initiative is a commitment to nurturing creative businesses, please register your interest to find out more.
Being on the programme has been a chance to look at the way we do certain things and take advantage of the masterclasses and the peer networking.
The mentoring has also been a really valuable part of the programme: being able to discuss processes, ideas and next steps with someone outside of the business offers a different perspective.
We are a collaborative hub, of policymakers, creative businesses, public sector representatives and creative space managers, part of the East Midlands Creative Consortium (EMC2) .
Our mission is to ignite curiosity, promote engagement, and support the commercial potential of our region's creative sectors.
We aim to foster a sense of belonging and ownership in the creative community.
We are one of three dynamic hubs established in September 2023 as part of a nationally funded programme operating at a regional level.
De Montfort University, University of Lincoln, and University of Derby lead the hubs, each focusing on their respective partner regions.
What sets us apart is our dedication to creating a lasting impact.
Beyond the project's end date, we aspire to leave a legacy that benefits the entire creative landscape.
Our focus is not just on the present building a foundation for the future.
Find out more on the East Midlands Create Growth webpage.
Find out how Cohort Three of Create Growth benefitted from business support.
View Creative start-up support in Derby video transcript
Watch the video to discover how Create Growth benefitted Jonny and his business.
View Jonny's Story video transcript

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/earthscale:
We are proud to be a founding partner in EarthScale - a major national initiative to accelerate the scale-up of climate tech startups and spinouts across the UK.
Backed by £5 million from the Research England Development Fund , EarthScale will support 60 high-potential climate ventures as they grow from big ideas to market-ready solutions.
Led by Imperial College London , and in collaboration with universities around England, this programme will create a powerful network of regional hubs focused on innovation, technical development, and climate impact.
We’re establishing our own regional innovation hub, rooted in the strengths of the Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering (IISE) .
This will serve as a launchpad for climate innovators from students and researchers to local businesses and start-ups to access:
We’re excited to bring Derby’s sustainable engineering and innovation expertise into this powerful national network.
By supporting deep tech climate startups, we can unlock bold, scalable solutions to the climate crisis and grow the green economy in our region.
EarthScale isn’t just funding - it’s a connected support ecosystem.
Start-ups will benefit from regional and national expertise to help them grow from early-stage innovation through to commercial deployment.
Support includes:
To access support, you must fit the following criteria:
The UK is a source of outstanding climate innovation… the Collaborative will smash through the barriers faced by startups.
EarthScale builds on Derby’s civic mission and innovation-driven growth agenda.
Our involvement ensures the East Midlands plays a key role in tackling climate and environmental challenges, while creating green jobs and skills in our region.
“Scaling today’s innovative climate startups is going to be vital in the adaptation and mitigation of climate change.
Place-based climate tech clusters are critical to support and nurture these innovations.” — Chelsea Boothroyd, Deputy Director for Innovation, Priestley Centre for Climate Future
To drive EarthScale, we have collaborated with climate tech leaders:
We also welcome new universities and partners to join us and extend this national legacy beyond the programme’s initial 3-year phase (to March 2028).
Applications for Earthscale support are currently open and will remain open until 31st August.
In early September, a selection process will take place, followed by interviews.
Applicants will then be notified of the outcome.
This is a three-year project, with three cohorts participating over its duration.
Timeline:
Application outcome
If you are unsuccessful at either the application or interview stage, please note that this is one of three cohorts taking place throughout the duration of the EarthScale project, and you will be welcome to apply again.
Further information about the upcoming cohort dates will be shared in due course.
In the meantime, you will still have the opportunity to attend upcoming events and workshops as part of the EarthScale project.
We'll be delivering workshops soon.
Stay tuned for more updates.
Email: earthscale@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/green-entrepreneurs-programme:
The Green Entrepreneurs Programme (GEP) was created in collaboration with the University of Derby as part of Derbyshire County Council’s Climate and Carbon Reduction Manifesto.
GEP was a £2 million grant fund for organisations interested in developing and investing in green energy and carbon reduction schemes and individuals looking to retrain in the field of alternative energy.
The programme was a capital and revenue fund open to organisations and individuals based in Derbyshire.
View Green Entrepreneurs Fund - Derbyshire County Council and the University of Derby video transcript
GEP recognised that organisations would need support to undertake necessary changes to their working practices, including taking risks to develop new products and services that are low carbon and innovative to help the growth of the wider Derbyshire economy.
The programme evaluation confirmed GEP funding to be highly successful in providing support to various organisations in Derbyshire to invest in low-carbon and green technologies, leading to significant reductions in carbon emissions and operational costs.
The support has been instrumental in promoting clean energy generation, enhancing energy efficiency, and accelerating the adoption of alternative energy sources.
Councillor Barry Lewis, Leader of Derbyshire County Council, believes that GEP supported Derbyshire to become a leader in green energy.
“Although the programme has now closed, the needs for the support it provides has not stopped and will likely continue for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, it is now important that we look to continue the good work that the Green Entrepreneurs Programme has done, through future support programmes."
Professor Kathryn Mitchell , Vice-Chancellor of the University of Derby, reflects on the University's role in the partnership.
“The University has played a key role in the partnership with Derbyshire County Council through our management and administration of the programme, and I am delighted that some of our 'zero carbon' academics are now engaged in additional projects with supported organisations and we hope that we can continue to impact many more as they progress on their own net zero pathways”
£500,000 was available to support applicants who had a project that will lead to local low carbon or alternative energy projects/interventions located in Derbyshire.
The Demonstrator Fund had an allocation of £1.2 million, offering support to organisations with a sound investment plan leading to local low-carbon or alternative energy projects/interventions.
The Scholarship Fund, with an allocation of £100k, offered grant awards for training and skills of up to £1,500 per individual, enabling entry into the low carbon and alternative energy fields.
Discover a selection of successful organisations to have received funding.
If you are interested in finding out more about the Green Entrepreneurs Programme and would like an electronic copy of the full Impact Assessment Report, please email gep@derby.ac.uk
The Small Grants Fund, Demonstrator Fund and Scholarship Fund are currently closed for applications but if you would like to register your interest for any future funding, please complete the form below.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/high-peak-skills-for-business:
The High Peak Skills Programme is now closed for applications.
If you wish to find out more about the sessions, please click on the below theme and complete the form at the bottom of the page.
Unlock the power of digital skills!
In today’s fast-paced world, learning digital skills is no longer a bonus; it’s a necessity.
Build a sustainable future with green skills!
As the world shifts toward eco-friendly practices, green skills are key to staying ahead and making a positive impact.
Boost your career potential with employability skills.
In today's competitive job market, having the right technical skills is just the beginning—employability skills set you apart.
We’ve put together a series of short insightful recordings on key topics
A showcase of some of the businesses we supported in the region through similar projects.
Environ Ltd, a specialist solutions provider to the ‘energy from waste’ sector, received free business consultancy through the Derbyshire Accelerator programme.
Find out why this came at a...
Buxton-based charity, Zink, has received funding and support through the Derbyshire Accelerator scheme, to help it become more sustainable.
Read the case study to find out more.
Bakewell-based digital marketing agency, Destination Digital, was able to take on an extra member of staff and improve its sustainability, thanks to funding from Derbyshire Accelerator.
Read the ...
Nutrition and Retreat is a new venture for Zaremba Marsden Ltd — a small business based in Matlock.
Civil engineering firm, Whitehouse Construction, is benefitting from funded manufacturing support thanks to the Derbyshire Accelerator scheme.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/innovate-for-rail:
The Innovate 4 Rail project was created to stimulate and support innovation and drive productivity among small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) in the Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire (D2N2) Rail Sector Supply Chains.
The project was a three year collaboration between the University of Derby , University of Birmingham and the Rail Forum that started in July 2020 and came to an end in June 2023.
The project was funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
Innovate 4 Rail provided practical support across a range of technologies to develop new products and solutions for the rail industry through supported access to facilities at the Universities of Derby and Birmingham and facilitated themed events / workshops.
Find out about some of the rail innovations we supported through the Innovate 4 Rail programme.
The University of Derby has been playing its part in supporting a dynamic rail cluster in the city, through R&D collaborations with rail companies, a new research centre specialising in rail, know...
The University of Derby has been playing its part in supporting a dynamic rail cluster in the city, through R&D collaborations with rail companies, a new research centre specialising in rail, knowledge exchange collaborations with other universities and our engagement with members of the Rail Forum.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/leadership-and-stem-skills-development-programmes:
The Smart and Inclusive Leadership programme (SAIL) offered fully-funded courses until December 2023.
This was possible thanks to funding from the European Social Fund and the delivery partners, which include the University of Derby, Nottingham Trent University, Derby College, Nottingham College, East Midlands Chamber of Commerce, Enable, and the Workers’ Educational Association.
The programme helped participants identify and develop their own leadership style, building on their existing skills and strengths.
A range of different approaches were covered including:
Follow the links below to learn how the programme impacted participants and how they experienced great success due to the practical skills they were taught.
The programme has supported the community with practical techniques that have been invaluable during challenging times.
Supporting a charity in developing the resilience to move forwards, and continue making a positive impact.
Supporting the marketing and fundraising activity of a charity, so they can make a bigger impact.
Supporting a newly appointed Recruitment Manager in her leadership role to ensure her department continues to make a positive impact.
Supporting a team who were driven by their desire to broaden their leadership horizons beyond technical know-how.
Aramide Odele, the managing director of Caremark Chesterfield and Bolsover discusses her experiences and insights of the support she received from the University.
Supporting an apprentice in her business admin role with her aspirations to further her career in marketing.
Find out more about how we can help your business:
Call 0800 0015500 Email businessgatway@derby.ac.uk Find us on Twitter
We have other support on offer to help participants including grants and loans, as well as funded business support programmes.
Most of these are aimed at local businesses that want to innovate, grow, de-carbonise or upskill.
Find out about other support on offer
The innovation accelerator provide workshops for businesses covering decarbonisation, innovation, challenge-led, capital grants, access to angel and investor for local businesses with the aim to improve their skills.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/reskill-and-recover:
Reskill and Recover offered fully-funded courses until December 2023.
This was possible thanks to funding from the European Social Fund and our delivery partners, which include the University of Derby, Nottingham Trent University, Derby College, Nottingham College, East Midlands Chamber of Commerce, Enable, and the Workers’ Educational Association.
The programme aimed to help participants learn about growth and productivity especially following the challenges of the past few years.
It's fantastic having access to fully funded support that helps me to improve my knowledge and learn new skills, so that I can develop CRZyBest as a sustainable and thriving business in this ever-changing and challenging landscape.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/small-business-charter:
The University of Derby’s Business School has become the latest business school to be awarded the Small Business Charter.
This national accolade is in recognition of the business school’s high standard of support for small businesses and the local economy, as well as the work it does in developing entrepreneurial skills in students.
The Small Business Charter (SBC) award is a national Kitemark awarded by the Chartered Association of Business Schools to recognise business schools which demonstrate excellence in supporting student enterprise, small businesses and the local economy.
Professor Kamil Omoteso, PVC Dean of the College of Business, Law and Social Sciences at the University of Derby, said:
“The confirmation of our Small Business Charter accreditation is fantastic news.
There are more than 25,000 small businesses in Derby and Derbyshire, which is 88% of all businesses in the city and county.
We have received the Small Business Charter award in recognition of the work we do in partnership with SME’s to support their business growth.
We also recognise that at the heart of our University we have a body of students and graduates that are their future talent.”
The business school has strong connections with local stakeholders, offering excellent events and workshops that support small business growth and entrepreneurship in the region.
Students and local businesses are able to take advantage of opportunities for engagement.
Enscite currently offers funded workshops and grant funding for graduates, to SMEs in the transport equipment manufacturing supply chain.
The DE-Carbonise project helped businesses reduce carbon emissions and energy costs, and increase their sustainability.
If you’re looking for fresh thinking, take your pick from our large talent pool of students and graduates.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/stem-skills-development-programme:
The ‘Branch out in STEM’ programme offered fully-funded courses until December 2023.
This was possible thanks to funding from the European Social Fund and the delivery partners, which include the University of Derby, Nottingham Trent University, Derby College, Nottingham College, East Midlands Chamber of Commerce, Enable, Inspire and the Workers’ Educational Association.
The programme positively impacted all those who took part.
Nadia Saleh attended a range of courses with the aim of learning more about data and being able to view it as an opportunity rather than a restriction.
She was able to learn more about data analysis and apply these skills to her business.
After attending the STEM courses, Nadia has been able to continue her CPD and engage in various networking opportunities.
I had only considered data in the context of GDPR; I hadn't thought about how data management could improve my business offering too.
The workshops made me see data as more of an opportunity rather than a restriction.
I also learned more about data analysis and the online communities that I could learn from.
The STEM programme has taught this Association how to apply mathematical concepts to solve workplace problems
Helping improve analytical, data and business skills whilst increasing efficiency.
We provided flexible data governance training for an entrepreneur, opening her eyes to the business opportunities that data can bring.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/help-to-grow-management-programme:
The Help to Grow 12-week programme, which is 90% funded by the government, combines online sessions with face-to-face learning and one-to-one mentoring.
It aims to s upport senior managers of small and medium-sized businesses to boost their business’s performance, resilience, and long-term growth.
Help to Grow: Management is a practical training course delivered by world-class business schools, accredited by the Small Business Charter focusing on building and strengthening your capabilities to lead your business and release its potential, delivered by the University of Derby across Derbyshire.
This course incorporates hybrid learning, peer group networks and mentoring and will support managers and leaders of small and medium-sized businesses to boost business performance, resilience, and long-term growth.
The 12-week course is 90% funded and the fee payable by participants is £750.
The course has been designed to allow participants to complete it alongside full-time work.
This practical programme takes place over three months and will include both online and face-to-face sessions, alongside peer support and mentoring.
Request for more information about the Help to Grow programme
Meet Dr Elnerine Greeff, she's a Lecture in Marketing at Derby Business School and one of the expert speakers delivering the Help to Grow: Management programme.
Find out more about the programme and why Dr Greeff thinks it's a great programme for SME's.
View Dr Elnerine Greeff speaking about the Help to Grow: Management programme.
Mentoring will offer you personalised support to develop your business growth plan and will allow you to learn from their experience.
Learning on the programme is led by our team of experts who bring a wealth of knowledge and experience from working in industry and academia.
Past business who have taken part include marketing agencies, graphic design agencies, residential surveyors and those in the aerospace sector.
As part of the programme you will have access to the Alumni Programme featuring events with inspirational speakers, business clinics and networking events.
What we want to do moving forward is also to create an environment where all the participants have the opportunity to build a community of their own, in which they decide how the community is run, how they network and share experiences.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment/working-with-our-students/funded-internships:
Your business may be eligible for funding towards the costs of employing a student or graduate, as well as free recruitment support from our Derby Talent Team.
The Derby Talent Programme is a scheme that provides funding for student and graduate internships.
The programme funding has now all been allocated for this year and we are working on new opportunities to begin in September 2025.
If you are interested in recruiting University of Derby students or graduates, our Student Employment Agency (SEA) can help you find candidates with high-level skills and huge potential.
Get in touch with the SEA to discuss recruitment options at: sea@derby.ac.uk .
Our students and graduates have high-level skills, fresh thinking, and huge potential.
By offering them work opportunities, you can bring new skills into your business, help them develop, and build your talent pipeline.
In particular, Derby students and graduates will:
To find out more about the recruitment support available, please contact our dedicated Business Enquiries team .
We spoke to some employers on video to find out how they benefitted from student internships.
Think Ocean - Hugo expresses his passion for having student interns working at Think Ocean and the impact they have on his organisation.
Derby Food 4 Thought Alliance - Paul shares how having an intern at Derby Food 4 Though Alliance has helped the charity to achieve goals and complete tasks which would otherwise be on hold because they are so busy helping the local community.
Watch an interview with Richard Beevers from Customer Plus about how Derby interns have benefitted his company.
Derby Museums recently hosted one of our Accounting students for an internship.
Find out about their experience of employing student talent.
Rebecca from Yellow Bird Marketing and Communications talks about her experience of employing a student and graduate, who worked remotely because of the pandemic.
We spoke to some of our students on video about their experiences and what they gained from doing an internship.
Research and Development Intern - Thomas did an internship through the Derby Talent Programme at Think Ocean, where he researched ways to prevent plastic pollution in our oceans.
Marketing Assistant - Mthabisi talks about how his marketing internship with Derby Food 4 Thought Alliance helped him gain workplace skills and knowledge in a field he wants to pursue as a career.
An internship through the University's DRIVEN programme took student Kayleigh Ayriss to the heart of Westminster.
Thomas Berrington's internship at marketing agency Crocstar added practical knowledge to his academic theory.
But, first, it shocked him.
Graduate Maciej talks about his remote working internship during the pandemic.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/de-carbonise-project/the-low-carbon-business-network:
We offer a range of fully funded support to accelerate business growth in the low carbon sector as well as a searchable network map that allows SMEs to connect with larger organisations and supply chains.
This fully funded resource aims to accelerate the adoption of eco-friendly, low carbon and green products and services in key supply chains across the region.
Our network connects SMEs who supply low carbon and environmental goods and services (LCEGS) with support from the University of Derby and other sector specialists.
Support is based on a business needs review, with workshops addressing:
If you would like to discuss your specific business needs then contact us on 0800 001 5500 or email lowcarbonbusiness@derby.ac.uk
We have designed this resource with smaller business in mind, to help demystify the steps needed to become a sustainable business.
The pathway provides links to support, resources and funding that will help your business get on the pathway to net-zero by reducing emissions, regenerating the environment, and winning new business - as we all move towards a cleaner, greener and sustainable future.
Find out more about the net-zero pathway for SMEs
Our academic team are at the forefront of developments in business sustainability.
Find out more about their views on developments impacting the region by reading their latest blogs.
In addition to leading the DE-Carbonise programme, Dr Fred Paterson also leads the Low Carbon Business Network which supports pro-environmental SMEs across the East Midlands.
His main interests are sustainable business, system leadership and how people learn to become leaders.
Clean growth - one of the greatest industrial opportunities of our time
Derby: leading the way in sustainable development
Dr Polina Baranova is a Senior Lecturer in Strategic Management and Doctor of Business Administration.
Her research lies at the intersection of strategy, business and society and she specialises in developing the environmental capabilities of organisations.
Entrepreneurial networking for environmental sustainability
Sustainability fine-tuning: seven ways to maximise ‘green’ business growth opportunities
Low-carbon, sustainable and pro-environmental business is particularly important to our region, discover other ways our team can help improve the sustainability of your organisation.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/de-carbonise-project/the-low-carbon-business-network/zero-carbon-pathways-for-smes:
How resilient is your business in the face of climate warming and the global environmental crisis?
These pages will help you access the support, resources and funding to get your business on the pathway to net-zero.
The cost of energy is soaring, global temperature is rising, and wildfires, heatwaves, droughts, floods and storms are becoming increasingly frequent and intense due to climate change.
The impact is devastating both for the planet, and for business supply chains.
Whilst businesses are undoubtedly impacted by climate change, they are also major contributors to environmental degradation.
So regardless of how small your organisation is, your commitment to tackling climate change and contributing to repairing the planet’s ecosystems can make a huge difference.
Acting now will not only support your company in becoming more sustainable, it will also help you to prepare for the global challenges that many more businesses will soon face.
The University of Derby has been helping small-to-medium sized enterprises (SMEs) become cleaner, greener and more resilient for years.
Our sustainable research team and Low Carbon Business Network are here to help you set your ambition, develop your plans to reach net-zero and re-generate the environment.
As a precursor to any support provided, every eligible firm that signs up to the DE-Carbonise Programme receives a ‘carbon-footprint’ audit of their site, business, products or operations as appropriate.
In September 2021, 40% of attendees at our Sustainability Summit had already agreed their net-zero ambition, with 34% declaring their aims publicly.
However, whilst 17% had created a plan to deliver net-zero, 53% had not yet agreed one.
Only 4% of firms did not plan to set a net-zero target.
If you are looking for help to prepare a delivery plan for net-zero, follow the Pathway below.
In December 2015, 195 countries signed the Paris Agreement to limit the increase in global temperatures to well below 2°C (above pre-industrial levels) and pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5 °C.
To achieve these aims, businesses of all sizes should aim to halve their greenhouse gas emissions before 2030 and reach net-zero emissions before 2050.
Step 1: Make a pledge
SME Climate Hub is a UK Government based pledge scheme and support for SMEs.
Large companies are advised to join Race to Zero via the Climate Pledge
Taking the first step along the journey to net-zero can sometimes feel overwhelming, but it could be easier than you think.
There is a wealth of support available from both the University and wider organisations, helping make the process much less daunting.
Follow the links below to find out more.
Step 2: Monitoring your environmental performance
A good way to get started is to monitor your environmental performance.
There are several tools to help you calculate your firm’s current carbon footprint – first for business operations, then by looking at your supply chain.
Further resources
The Low Carbon Business Network hosts a library of tools and resources that includes links to carbon calculators for different sectors
Keep up to date with all the latest news, events and opportunities on Twitter @CarbonDerby.
Step 3: Assess the risks
It’s also important to assess your risks and plan ahead to reduce the impact of extreme weather events on your business stakeholders and minimise breaks in your supply chain.
The University of Derby has developed the 'Twelve Opportunities' guides to help SME owners and managers navigate a route to decarbonisation by providing a set of tools, resources and inspiration to accelerate their journey towards Net Zero.
Access your guidebook
There are several other excellent guidebooks to net-zero for SMEs that you may wish to consider:
Environmental and social value
Alongside the economic benefits of more sustainable business practices, it’s essential to think about the environmental and social value that your business can create.
There are some helpful resources to guide you through every step on the path to net-zero.
The route to net-zero will be different for every business.
Although there are many considerations, there are some great planning tools available to help you.
In addition to removing greenhouse gas emissions from your operations, you may want to develop your own low carbon products and services.
Finding your market niche and engaging your customers are an important part of this process.
Developing an environmental strategy and responsible business model are key building blocks for any route planning.
De-carbonising your operations and supply chain can be cost saving in both the short and long term.
However, operational, product and service eco-innovation and shifting to sustainable supply chain practices can sometimes require new finance or funding.
Clearly, presenting a viable financial plan is critical to securing the funding you may need.
There are a variety of options to help fund your journey to net-zero.
Further resources:
There are all sorts of ways to access funding and finance.
The challenge is finding the approach that is right for you.
The East Midlands Chamber collate a useful list of funding opportunities , that range from national innovation funds like the UK Clean Growth Innovation Fund and regional funds like Midlands Engine Investment Fund to more locally-focused opportunities .
Connecting with support through the D2N2 GrowthHub or Innovate UK EDGE will help develop and shape your funding proposition.
Commercial Banks are also increasingly offering environmentally focused services and resources.
For example: Natwest Climate Accelerator Programme and the HSBC Sustainability Hub
Every business will need to re-position, re-skill and upskill its workforce as we move to a fully sustainable economy.
Some of these skills will be common to all businesses (such as environmental management, sustainable procurement and eco-innovation) and others will be sector and location specific.
Some sectors are much further ahead than others, but there is a growing array of resources to help you build you pro-environmental capabilities.
For example:
Whether you want to develop your environmental strategy, de-carbonise your operations, develop a new eco-product, green your supply chain, or enhance your local environment – it’s important to act, no matter how small the step you take.
Involving your staff, customers and suppliers is a great way to get the ball moving and keeping it rolling along the way.
Resources to help you take action:
Take the opportunity to think and act ‘beyond the norm’.
As a more circular, more environmentally conscious economy emerges, so too will quite radically different ways of living and being.
The rapid rise in home-working recently, prompted by the Covid pandemic, is just one example of a socio-economic trend blurring divisions between social and business constructs.
UKRI have shown that collaborating with research institutions via Innovate UK funding and other collaborative partnerships help SME’s take the necessary action towards net-zero.
Look out for opportunities and events hosted by the University of Derby research centres and clusters:
There are many examples of exciting new approaches emerging that repair the environment and draw on patterns and processes from nature which could re-energise your business.
Get help, share your lessons and engage with your customers, staff and suppliers.
Research shows that there are clear business benefits from collaborating with stakeholders on your green transition.
And there’s no need to feel isolated on the journey to net-zero; a growing number of businesses are joining this journey.
In the East Midlands around 4 in 10 firms are supplying low carbon or environmental goods and services.
There are several regional and sector groups, plus green business networks that can provide direct support and connect you with other businesses that are dealing with similar challenges (and others who have solved the problems you are facing right now).
Regional support:
In Nottingham there is support from:
National support:
Benchmarking where you start from and gathering evidence of progress along the way is crucial for making good decisions.
And of course, it’s important to celebrate your successes.
Putting your business forward for local, regional and national green awards is one great way to build your pro-environmental reputation.
You may even want to develop a green marketing strategy.
Complete the enquiry form below to ask about how the University of Derby can help you build your green credentials, develop a green marketing strategy and grow your pro-environmental business on your pathway to net-zero.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/midlands-engine-mental-health-and-productivity-pilot:
The Mental Health and Productivity Pilot implemented new workplace interventions at pilot organisations, and rolled out existing interventions in businesses across the Midlands Engine geography.
The programme intended to help reduce mental health distress and break down the barriers to accessing care.
Our aim was to reduce absence and incidences of reduced productivity due to poor mental health and provide effective, sensitive support for these staff within the workplace.
The pilot also aimed to reduce the stigma and discrimination associated with mental health, opening up conversations around the subject within the work environment.
We have worked with businesses in Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire (D2N2), Herefordshire, Shropshire (The Marches) and Staffordshire to help integrate effective mental health provision within the working environment.
This project was funded by the Midlands Engine .
We are still able to work with your organisation to support the health and wellbeing of your workforce through the Work Health Hub .
We were delighted to take part in the pilot as part of our ongoing commitment to our team’s wellbeing.
At TTK we want to promote good mental health and create a supportive environment, and we feel this initiative will provide the right tools to do that.
Follow the link to learn how the programme impacted leaders to create a strategy to support the health and wellbeing of their staff.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/research/themes/business-economic-social-policy/udreo:
The University of Derby Regional Economic Observatory (UDREO) is building a robust evidence base to inform economic and social policy deliberations, engage with people and businesses and produce analysis to support engagement with national government policy.
We will engage with the public and businesses to inform our research agendas.
UDREO aims to inform policy in a rigorous way so will collect new empirical data on business intelligence, sustainable futures, labour markets and population-level social attitudes.
Business intelligence will capture the dynamics of local business activity including the size distribution of businesses, the dynamics of growth of firms and sectors and barriers to growth including access to finance, skills and working premises etc.
We will also consider what spatial markets businesses operate in, their innovative capabilities, linkages and networks of firms, and the nature of the competitive environment they face.
Sustainable futures will capture the dynamics of a healthy environment (including net zero, protecting nature, zero waste), healthy business (including green growth, energy efficiency, new markets, good governance and responsible management) and a healthy society/community (including charitable, voluntary or community projects, social value and social responsibility).
Labour market intelligence will capture the dynamics of flows into and out of the labour market, the distribution of the working population across occupations and sectors, and data on work experience, job skills, training needs, career pathways, skills gaps (and skills provision), working conditions, and the matching of workers to jobs and industry sectors.
We will also capture travel-to-work areas and the dynamics of workers' flows into and out of cities and towns.
Population and social attitudes will capture the dynamics of local social attitudes such as priorities for public expenditure, satisfaction with local services and infrastructure, and environmental issues.
The public views on issues relating to crime, policing, health, transport, and education will be sought also.
This work benefits from two main research clusters:
However, it also takes a multidisciplinary approach drawing on the expertise of other research clusters where required.
The aim of this research cluster is to contribute to an efficient, equitable, and sustainable future by generating societal impact through evidence-based policy interventions.
Our research concentrates on SME growth and productivity but also includes topics such as innovation, entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship education and strategy.
Professor Mark Gilman is a Professor of Economics, with responsibilities within the University of Derby Regional Economic Observatory, whose purpose is to build a robust evidence base to inform economic and social policy deliberations.
DS Performance is a sports performance company, supplying sport-specific development strategies through strength and conditioning support for a range of sports.
Stevie Davies is an artist and designer who works with glass.
She’s spent the last six and a half years honing her craft and developing her business at Banks Mill Studios.
Unlock your business’s potential with our free business health check tool.
This diagnostic tool identifies key growth opportunities and provides a tailored report with practical insights.
Mark Gilman, Professor of Economics leads the University of Derby Regional Economic Observatory.
Here he shares more about why the initiative was first developed and how it will support the local region.
View Regional Economic Observatory video transcript
If you have any questions about the Regional Economic Observatory or would like to learn more about business services we provide, please complete the form below.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/funding/productivity-through-innovation/funded-consultancy:
Are you faced with a business problem that you would like support with?
If so, our consultancy services could be the solution you’re looking for.
Our consultancy service offers you the opportunity to work alongside our research and technical team to bring innovative new solutions to your organisation.
The project can relate to any area of your business and support will be tailored to your individual needs.
Some of the areas we have already developed solutions for include:
The University of Derby offers a wealth of expertise in a range of industries, from science and engineering to the arts and professional business services.
Our academic team are at the forefront of the latest industry developments, offering the highest standard of insight and research.
This project came at the right time for our business and the graduate was fantastic, allowing us the time needed to focus on the project.
The Productivity Through Innovation team made the whole process from start to finish really stress free and easy.
Discover which organisations we have already helped and what support we have given.
S4RB helps retailers manage their 'private brands' - own label brands like ASDA's Smart Price - through cloud-based software, engagement expertise and professional services.
The company worked with our Head of the Centre for Business Improvement, Dr Carley Foster, to take a deep dive into their company data.
The project aimed to identify any trends that could potentially impact both sales and productivity levels - either positively or negatively.
As a data scientist, Carley has expertise in looking at data in different ways.
She analyses aspects such as human factors, which can reveal different insights to quantitative data analysis.
The research provided a more holistic view of customer feedback data, which could subsequently be used to shape operational and strategic decisions, such as dealing with any complaints data in a more effective manner.
Like millions of other businesses in the UK in 2020, the creative centre, Derby Quad , was affected by new social distancing rules, brought in to control the spread of Covid-19.
The organisation worked with Leonardo Stella, Lecturer in Computer Games Programming, to apply government policy and guidance to their spaces.
The project identified the required spatial dynamics under the social distancing policy and within the given capacity.
A seat allocation algorithm was produced to ensure customer safety, which took into account people from the same household, couples, single customers and the average customer profile.
The final report presented to Derby Quad included a plan on how and when to open each part of the company under the government guidance, together with diagrams of potential layouts within the space available.
Light Science Technologies deliver tailored solutions in lighting, science and technology products, for Controlled Environment Agriculture.
The company worked with Yilling Lu, Lecturer in Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, to identify the different properties and level of heat their three extrusion profiles would withstand.
A thermal analysis of the different light assemblies was carried out and a final report included details of the CAD thermal analysis used.
Des Gosling Mobility provide a huge range of products designed to help disabled people to drive.
After purchasing a new 3D Scanner, the company approached the University looking for advice on the best scanning processes and guidance on how to optimise the scan data.
Adam Leighton, our Senior Technical Advisor, worked with the organisation to address both these areas.
Freeland Horticulture Ltd is the largest soil supplier in England and Wales.
The company approached our University looking for support to understand developments in some emerging areas of interest to them.
Firstly, Freeland were keen to implement sustainable and circular economy approaches within a wide range of production processes.
They had already taken part in research on biochars and compostable plastics, which would allow more consistent production of materials for urban greening and horticulture.
Secondly, they were interested in how food production was being revolutionised by new enclosed and controlled horticultural practices, and the increased demand for plant-based foods.
Freeland are now working with the University to investigate the potential for plant residues from urban greening to be used within large-scale carbon capture solutions.
Mass production systems are required to enable the economies of scale needed to ensure these products can compete with existing techniques and materials.
SCITEK is engaged in several R&D projects with a customer that requires the use of image analysis.
The analysis is used to develop a mathematical technique that automates colour segmentation from images of components.
Each component represents the temperature map that it was exposed to.
The analysis of images was carried out manually by skilled operators, but this was a slow process and susceptible to interpretation, which produced variability in the temperature maps produced.
Automation by image analysis helps remove ambiguity, reducing errors and is significantly faster.
Automation also enables the temperature map to be transferred to a 3D CAD model of the component.
The ultimate aim of the project will be to allow our customer to improve their products.
SCITEK approached the Productivity Through Innovation (PtI) team to help recruit an employee to work on the project.
They required a candidate with a very strong mathematical background and knowledge of image analysis.
The skills developed by the employee would be transferable to other projects undertaken by SCITEK, adding to the portfolio of services offered by our company.
The PtI programme helped Scitek find the ideal candidate, allowing the team the time they needed to focus on the project.
Devtank approached the Productivity Through Innovation (PtI) team to help find a graduate hardware engineer to support their thriving business.
Since joining the team, Adil has excelled in supporting the company strive towards continuous improvement and he has played a vital role in new product introduction.
Aldi has worked on no less than seven new products since joining Devtank and the team have found him a credit to the organisation.
"He has helped us develop new hardware to enable automation and control of our core HILTOP product into diverse applications, from industrial autoclave control systems to smart factory monitoring solutions.
Internally he has really grasped our design for test and design for manufacture design ethos and we are currently working on a new range of PCB test jigs to mate with our proven HILTOP test and measurement product."
Devtank belive the project has provided the much needed internal test capability to validate their own products.
It has also offered a product they can sell to customers, which will open doors to new opportunities and increase their offering in the market place.
"The PtI project team has been incredibly supportive and willing to help and all the processes involved have run smoothly.
We have developed a good relationship with the team and are looking to build on this in terms of future collaboration."
This service is offered free of charge as part of our commitment to supporting the local business community and helping the region to thrive.
Your organisation will receive up to 40 hours of consultancy, and £500 towards any consumables that may be required.
If you would like to find out more about our business consultancy services, or discuss working in partnership with us, please contact our Business Enquiry team on:
0800 001 5500 or businessgateway@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment/permanent-graduate-vacancies:
Do you have a vacancy for a professional role that is well suited to a newly qualified graduate?
Maybe you even have a specific graduate development programme?
If that’s the case, we can help you find the best candidates to fill those roles.
If you have your job advert ready to go, the best option is to upload it to our vacancy portal , which all our students and graduates have access to.
This allows you to take control of your opportunities and manage and edit them yourself.
You will need to register for an account on the portal first and confirm your email address — please do this so we can stay in touch with you.
Once your roles are on the portal, we will make sure they are promoted through:
In addition, we will make sure your opportunities are seen by relevant academics.
Please note we have a few rules about advertising jobs .
“Since joining the team, our graduate hardware engineer, Adil, has excelled in supporting our strive for continuous improvement and played a vital role in new product introduction.
He has worked on no less than seven new products in the time since joining us and is a credit to the organisation.” – Tim Telford, Hardware Director at Devtank , an open source engineering company based in Derbyshire.
We can also provide practical help with your recruitment, such as:
Contact our Employer and Community Engagement team to find out more and get the process started.
A good way to raise interest and awareness of your company on-campus, is to share your knowledge with our students and graduates through mentoring or specific skills and information sessions.
This is a university of applied learning.
We make sure our students build practical and technical skills during their course through work-related projects and work experience , as well as optional year-long placements .
In fact, we insist that our second years complete 30 hours of course-related work experience because we believe it’s so important.
Thanks to our active Careers and Employment Service, students often continue this valuable ‘real-world learning’ beyond their course, through internships , volunteering and casual or part-time work .
All of this means that when they leave Derby, our new graduates are already experienced at using their knowledge to solve real business issues and problems.
They are ready and able to work.
Hear how renowned clockmaker, Smith of Derby, has benefitted from taking on our graduates.
View How our graduates helped a renowned clockmaker video transcript
Accelerate your research and development with a part-funded partnership with the University and a recent graduate.
To discuss any of the opportunities to work with our students in more detail, please get in touch with the Derby Talent Team below.
Enquire about working with our students
Alternatively, get in touch directly via email: derbytalentteam@derby.ac.uk or telephone: 01332 592939.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment/working-with-our-students:
There are a wide range of different ways you can work with our students and the University of Derby.
As a university we strive to be industry engaged.
You can support us to achieve this vision by engaging in curriculum, delivering presentations or panels.
There is also the opportunity to set our students live briefs within modules.
You can recruit our students on a temporary basis through year in industry placements, internships, volunteering, work experience or on a part-time basis via our Student Employment Agency.
A year in industry placement is a three-way partnership involving a student, your organisation and the university.
A placement allows a student to apply their skills and develop knowledge in the workplace.
It also helps your organisation to develop your future talent pipeline and look for potential graduate hires.
The year in industry placement enables your organisation to recruit a university student (between the 2nd and final year of their degree) for between 9 and 15 months.
The student is a contracted, paid employee of your organisation for this period, and you will receive support from the university to help recruit and manage the student.
Watch Derby Business Management graduate Joel Boulter and Wincanton's Entry Talent Resourcing Manager Marieta Jones talk about the benefits of taking a student on a year placement
Please note: the University of Derby can generally only endorse and promote paid placements.
An internship is a paid period of short-term work experience that students or graduates can undertake for your organisation.
This could be a 6-week internship over summer, a fixed period of part time employment during term time or a work-based project that students or graduates can complete for your organisation.
Please note: the University of Derby will only endorse and promote paid internships.
The Student Employment Agency (SEA) is the University of Derby’s agency to help you recruit our students and graduates.
Whether you’re looking to fill full-time, part-time or casual vacancies, students can bring fresh perspectives and innovative ideas to your organisation.
If you want candidates with high-level skills, fresh thinking, and huge potential, we’ll help you find them.
Students at our university study subjects as varied as business, education, sport, hospitality, law, marketing, engineering, and events management — so there is a broad range of skills available.
Our students and recent graduates also have a passion for learning and self-development; an important attribute in any employee.
We have a pool of diverse students who are eager to put their academic knowledge into practice in the real world.
Our aim is to connect you with the perfect candidate through comprehensive recruitment support, including:
Organisations across the UK are eligible to recruit through the SEA, but your roles should be suitable for University of Derby students and recent graduates.
Your investment in recruiting a student or graduate is mutually beneficial, so we offer competitive rates and a reliable service.
Get in touch with the Student Employment Agency
Is your not-for-profit organisation or charity looking for volunteers?
If so, we can help you advertise your opportunities to thousands of students and graduates who are often looking for ways to build experience and do something positive for their community.
We are always looking for employers to run insight, information and skills sessions in curriculum.
These can be on campus, pre-recorded or held virtually.
These sessions help students gain knowledge, understanding of specific sectors and awareness of the skills they need for their job-hunting, recruitment processes and future careers as well as raising awareness of your organisation and opportunities.
Some of our programmes include embedded placements which are managed by individual colleges.
These programmes ensure students meet the number of hours required for their professional qualification.
If you want to host an embedded placement, we can connect you to the relevant academic team.
As part of the Learning and Teaching Strategy at the University of Derby, second-year students are required to complete a minimum of 30 hours integrated work experience.
We have two defined types of work experience, work experience placement and work-based learning project/live briefs:
Work Experience Placement – 30 hours (minimum)
For organisations and employers, work experience placements allow you to contribute to the development of the next generation of potential employees and experience the quality of our students.
A work experience student is a great way to get extra, short-term support into your business.
Students could work on a small project to solve a problem, tackle low priority but impactful jobs or undertake research using their specialist skills and knowledge.
There is no cost to your organisation hiring a work experience student.
Work experience placements are a fantastic way for our students to experience what their chosen area of study can lead to in terms of a career path.
Work-Based Learning Project/ Live Brief
Give us a real business problem and we can challenge our students to come up with creative ideas and solutions, while being supported by a tutor.
We will work with you to see where your project can align with the module outcomes on specific programmes.
If you have the capacity, you may also wish to consider some of our other programmes of support that could develop from your Live Brief, such as an internship or a longer placement.
The Derby Talent Team can offer practical recruitment support, whether this be uploading roles, shortlisting, support with interviews or just additional promotion of roles via our social media channels.
We can book rooms free of charge for student and employer activity, and interviews or assessment centres.
Colleges within the university have established Industry Advisory Boards.
The intention of these boards is to work closely with organisations to develop the skills and attributes in our students that employers are looking for.
These are ‘critical friends’ groups and have representation from a wide range of sectors and size of organisations.
There are a range of ways you can support and inspire our students and recent graduates and raise your organisations profile.
Your organisation can sponsor a careers fair or conference and provide a keynote speaker or sponsor a Union of Student Employability award.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment/hire-our-graduates:
Does your organisation have a professional opportunity or graduate development programme that is suited to a recent graduate?
The Derby Talent Team can help you find the best candidate for the role.
Employing someone at the start of their career will often bring new perspectives and can be a great way to create a long-term talent pipeline for your organisation and help develop future leaders.
Enquire
Our graduates have high-level skills, fresh perspectives, and huge potential.
By offering them graduate opportunities, you can bring new skills into your business, help them develop, and build your talent pipeline.
In particular, University of Derby students and graduates will:
If your organisation has any of the above opportunities, you can advertise them for free to our students and graduates by uploading it to our online vacancy platform.
Alternatively, if you'd like to discuss your opportunities further then email the team .
The Student Employment Agency can help your organisation find a graduate to fill permanent, casual or part-time roles.
The Agency has a wide range of students and graduates available and offers a flexible service, at very competitive rates.
Hear how employers have benefitted from student and graduate talent.
To discuss any of this information in more detail, please get in touch with the Derby talent team directly via email: derbytalentteam@derby.ac.uk or telephone: 01332 592939.
Every year, our undergraduate accounting and marketing students work on projects for Chatsworth as part of their courses.
Find out what they do and how this benefits them.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment/share-your-knowledge:
Inspire the next generation by mentoring a student or recent graduate.
There’s a minimum time commitment of only eight hours and as well as making you feel good, it can improve your own coaching skills and widen your network.
You might even spot an emerging talent and want to recruit them!
This Mentoring Scheme has been a very successful way of introducing students to the world of business.
It's easy to become a mentor — complete our expression of interest form or contact us to find out more.
"All the students we have seen come across as being well taught and motivated.
My mentee is always very smart and turns up for meetings punctually…We are now engaging him in some part-time paralegal work.” – Andrew Cochrane, Senior Partner, Flint Bishop solicitors
Can you help our students prepare for the world of work?
We are always looking for employers to run skills and information sessions, such as commercial awareness or interview skills.
These sessions help students gain an understanding of the skills they need for their job-hunting and future careers as well as raising awareness of your organisation.
Contact our Employer and Community Engagement team to discuss the options.
Help us ensure our courses develop the skills and attributes you want to see in graduates.
We’re looking for board members from all sizes of business and from all sectors.
We meet three times a year so it’s not a big commitment.
Contact our Employer and Community Engagement team to find out more.
We hold a wide range of careers-related events throughout the year.
For example, there are two Employability Festivals in Autumn and Spring and a number of smaller events organised by colleges, such as the Design Connection event and Hospitality Industry Networking Day.
These are great opportunities to talk to students directly and start to build a relationship with our University.
See the latest events for businesses .
To find out more about how you can share your knowledge and engage with our students, please contact our Employer and Community Engagement team .

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment/employer-toolkit:
Identifying and attracting great students and graduates from the University of Derby.
Assessing and selecting great students and graduates from the University of Derby.
Recruiting a graduate is a big investment so it is important to retain them.
To discuss any of this information in more detail, please get in touch with the Derby Talent Team directly via email: derbytalentteam@derby.ac.uk or telephone: 01332 592939.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment/meet-the-team:
With a background in corporate and graduate recruitment, Jacqui leads the Employer and Community Engagement team in extending and building long-term collaborative relationships with employers, professional bodies, community organisations and external networks.
Fiona manages a team of Talent Development Officers to enable a wide range of local, regional and national employers to access our diverse student and graduate talent pool through a comprehensive, accessible and tailored service offer.
Fiona is keen to develop strategic collaborative relationships.
Libby is a Talent Development Officer She meets with a wide variety of employers to identify their recruitment requirements, promote opportunities and help build brand awareness with students and recent graduates.
She works closely with the College of Science and Engineering.
Ross has worked for the Student Employment Agency for 2 years.
He has recently joined the Talent Development Officer Team working closely with the College of Health, Psychology and Social Care.
He enjoys working within a close-knit team to source and provide opportunities for students and employers.
Sarah has worked for the University since 2014.
Prior to joining the University, she has significant experience in recruitment, training & development roles.
Sarah thrives on working with both existing and new external partners, she works closely with the College of Business, Law and Social Science.
Cassie is the day-to-day co-ordination and lead of the Student Employment Agency (SEA).
Her role is to raise awareness of the SEA to students, graduates, internal hiring manager and external employers.
The SEA offer a full recruitment service for internal and external clients.
Verity joined the University in 2018.
Verity is passionate about helping students bridge the gap between education and employment and is keen to build and maintain relationships with local, regional and national employers.
Most recently, Verity has been working on the ESF DRIVEN project.
E: employerteam@derby.ac.uk T: +44 (0)800 001 5500

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment/volunteering:
Is your not-for-profit organisation or charity looking to recruit volunteers?
If so, we can help you advertise your roles to thousands of students and graduates, who are often looking for ways to build experience and do something positive for their community.
We actively encourage students and graduates to take part in volunteering, because we recognise that it can help them develop the skills and experience employers are looking for, whilst also making a positive difference in the local community.
We also have a way of formally recognising volunteering through the Futures Award.
This award is recorded on the Higher Education Achievement Record (HEAR) which students receive when they graduate, so it can boost their CV and is an added incentive to get involved.
Whether you need one-off or regular support, you can advertise a volunteer role on our vacancy porta l (you need to register for an account the first time).
You will need to provide a detailed role description reflecting the task, time, location and length of commitment.
Once it's uploaded to the portal, we will promote your opportunity to students and graduates through:
We can also directly reach out to students and academics on relevant courses.
Once you have found the perfect candidate, we would love to help publicise their involvement with your organisation and celebrate their successes through our different media outlets.
This can be a great way of raising awareness about your cause.
If you need to discuss your requirements further, please contact us .
Find out about Community Chesterfield, a partnership which aims to connect the University with Chesterfield’s voluntary sector, for mutual benefit.
We recruit sports volunteers who support the delivery of sport in the University and within the local community.
If your organisation is interested in hosting volunteers for sports-specific events or activities, you can contact our Union of Students on info@derbyunion.co.uk .
Our Careers and Employment Service promotes volunteering and so does our student-led body: the Union of Students.
Union Volunteers have worked on initiatives such as:
For more information about working with Union Volunteers, contact the Union of Students at info@derbyunion.co.uk .
To discuss your volunteering requirements in more detail, please contact us:
E: volunteering@derby.ac.uk T: +44 (0)800 001 5500

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/talent-recruitment/careers-fairs-and-events:
The Derby Talent Team host a wide range of on campus and virtual events including; careers fairs, employer presentations, panels, webinars, skills sessions, networking events and conferences.
We host a Graduate Careers and Placements Fair during the academic year.
This is a great opportunity for your organisation to showcase your graduate and placement opportunities.
This fair is open to students from all year groups and programmes, as well as recent graduates.
We also host events that promote opportunities aimed at students on specific programmes across our campus sites such as our Engineering and Technology Fair.
Please see details of our careers fairs and events for 2025/26 below:
Express your interest in attending our careers events

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/training-development/professional-development:
If you're interested in continuous professional development (CPD) to boost your career, our postgraduate and professional courses will focus on building your employability from day one.
We offer part-time routes for some of our masters courses, so you can combine study with your work and home life.
You’ll study in the afternoon and/or evening or in block delivery at the weekend.
Masters courses are made up of a Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and Masters stage.
Each stage takes one year to complete if you’re studying part-time, and each is a recognised and respected qualification in its own right.
Our courses are designed flexibly, so you only sign up for one stage at a time.
This means that if you feel you need a break from studying between stages, you can have one and then rejoin your course when you feel ready.
Alternatively, take advantage of the momentum of study and benefit from the support network you build with your fellow students and complete the full masters course in three years.
It’s entirely up to you.
Find out more about studying part-time
We have a wide range of professional, online and short courses too.
Search our short courses
Many of our courses are accredited by professional bodies, such as:
So you can be sure you're learning the knowledge and practical skills that employers are looking for, and you'll have a recognised qualification when you finish.
You can use our Careers and Employment Service while you're at Derby and for up to three years after you graduate.
We'll help you to:
Learn more about how the Careers and Employment Service can help you
We develop bespoke work based learning solutions for many of our clients, devising programmes to address specific gaps in the skills, knowledge and capability of their workforces.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/training-development/work-based-learning:
We are experts in bespoke learning solutions that empower and drive performance in individuals, leadership teams and organisations.
We work with like-minded organisations to create and deliver value through innovative programmes, ensuring impact on organisational outputs.
This highly experiential and developmental approach offers a long-term strategic partnership including objective setting and evaluation measures.
Rather than transactional learning, we aim for transformational in-company learning for both the learner and the organisation.
We design a wide range of flexible, customised programmes to run over any period - from months to years.
These are designed to meet the strategic needs of your business, whether that’s talent development, skills capability or business innovation issues.
We will incorporate a variety of learning methods to suit your employees and your organisation.
Your programme can be an accredited university-level qualification or not, it’s up to you, but we usually find that learners value accredited programmes more - mainly because the academic credits they gain are transferable.
These are customised undergraduate or postgraduate degrees designed to meet the specific needs of your organisation.
The benefits are:
We've developed a programme for tutors and trainers within companies, who are running or assisting with work-based learning programmes.
The qualification is unique to the sector and helps them better understand bespoke learning solutions at higher education level.
Read more about the Supporting Work-Based Learning qualification .
We ensure our learning and development solutions deliver real impact for the organisation and its employees by:
We measure success by:
Assessing employees before and afterwards using psychometric tests, diagnostic tools, and data to evaluate business impact when measuring the results of the programme.
Working with Holcim at every level has ensured that the Global RMX (Ready Mix) Concrete Management Programme is valuable and impactful to both the organisation and the programme's participants.
Your key contacts for work-based learning are:

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/training-development/executive-education-and-enterprise-development:
We work with people and businesses, supporting them to grow and thrive.
We do this by providing a wide range of professional development options as well as opportunities to share ideas, evidence and expertise - often called 'knowledge exchange'.
As a university, our focus is on providing high-quality education and training to individuals or businesses.
That includes everything from short courses to longer-term partnerships like apprenticeships or bespoke work-based learning.
However, our support doesn't stop there.
We are also sharing our knowledge and facilities with businesses and helping them to access funding and support so they can grow, adapt and innovate.
Our team is based in the College of Business, Law and Social Sciences, with programmes covering these key areas: business, leadership and management; criminology; law and policing; social sciences.
However, we can put you in touch with any of the University’s colleges, giving you access to a greater range of specialisms.
We chose to work with Derby because of their collaborative approach...we have always been completely satisfied with all aspects of delivery and the impact it has had on our business
These are the key contacts in Executive Education and Enterprise Development:
Alexandra Charles is College Head of Executive Education and Enterprise Development.
Through its work with business and business leaders, her team has global impact as a high quality provider of innovative work integrated and applied learning solutions.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/training-development/online:
Online learning is creating new opportunities for workforce development.
We can help you close skills gaps, raise standards and productivity, develop or attract talent, and improve staff retention and morale.
Our established portfolio ranges from CPD and short courses to apprenticeships and full undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.
View the current subjects on offer.
More of our programmes have been accredited than any other UK online education provider: proof of our strong partnerships with industry and our focus on developing career-enhancing skills.
Courses usually include work-related tasks and projects, so students quickly understand how to apply their learning and see its value as they start to use it in the workplace.
Everyone benefits from this.
We think beyond the qualification, ensuring people finish with not just an award, but the practical skills they need to go further in their careers, as well as greater confidence and self-belief.
It’s a winning combination for the individual and their employer.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/training-development/carbon-literacy-for-corporate-learners:
"What did you do when you knew climate change threatened our world?" - Boston Globe 2020
Responding to it is imperative for us as a University, given education is key to addressing climate change.
The College of Business, Law and Social Sciences has commissioned this Carbon Literacy programme in conjunction with the Carbon Literacy Project to support University efforts to meet Carbon emission reduction targets.
The programme builds on materials drawn from the UN PRME Carbon Literacy training as well as contributors from other Universities, including our own.
As a University, we have a critical and influential role given we have the opportunity to prepare our students, businesses, partners and country to work towards a sustainable future.
By sustainable future, we mean the ability to address the needs of the present whilst actively and consciously supporting the ability of future generations (and all life) to thrive within an abundant and healthy environment.
It is vital that we equip ourselves, students and our stakeholders with the mindset, education, research and overall ability to take responsible action and lead and influence positively in this regard.
Carbon Literacy is a term used to describe an awareness of climate change and the climate impacts of mankind’s everyday actions.
It covers climate change, carbon footprints, how you can do your bit, and why it’s relevant to you and those around you, particularly our students.
The aim of the programme is to provide carbon literacy training to academic staff who have an interest in promoting climate action and Carbon Literacy across the organisation.
It considers personal, domestic as well as workrelated carbon reduction activities.
It provides the skills needed to make high impact changes in private and work settings (for example research, teaching, or consultancy work) to reduce carbon emissions.
It has been fully funded by the College given its importance not only as in terms of our aspirations as a College or University, but also given sectoral, national, and global commitments.
The programme comprises a self-study module followed by 4 virtual sessions, 2.5 hours each with between session activities (typically 20mins).
On completion, you then need to complete a written assignment/evidence form which is submitted to the Carbon Literacy Project for assessment.
If successful, you will then achieve Carbon Literacy Citizenship, including a certificate and electronic badge.
To deliver on committed action, it is important that each person completes the certification process.
This requires addressing the following key questions related to:
This assignment, which takes roughly 4 hours to complete, is then sent to the Carbon Literacy Project for assessment.
Upon successful completion, you will receive a Carbon Literacy certificate to demonstrate you are now a Carbon Literate citizen.
Recognising that this needs to be a transformative programme, new Sustainable Futures Staff Academy is being set up, initially to support the embedding of Carbon Literacy across our College portfolio and beyond that, the integration of responsible management education principles and ESD, in line with the new Learning and Teaching Assessment Framework (LTAF) framework.
Responding to climate change is too big a challenge to rely on our default settings.
If we fail to embed new thinking in the current concerns and actions of those around us, then we fail.
Sustainability is undeniably given more attention now than ever before and is more important than ever before.
This also means that an increasingly wider group of stakeholders are ready to take action, from governments to policymakers to business, and not least individuals within society.
With the ever-growing urgency of understanding the impact of CO2 and other greenhouse gasses upon our fragile planet, initiatives such as Carbon Literacy is vital in providing clear, science-based information on carbon emissions.
This programme supports our commitments in terms of our new ESD LTAF focus, our PRME objectives as well as our strategic commitments as a University to embed Net Zero across our whole portfolio.
This includes our aspiration to become a Carbon Literate Organisation (CLO) in support of our move to the new Net Zero Business School.
Find out how some businesses have been benefitting from becoming carbon literate.
Derby Business School is delivering carbon literacy training to health providers and business leaders, as well as its own staff and students.
Find out more about what's been achieved so far.
Derby Business School has been embedding the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into its courses and giving students opportunities to develop a sustainability mindset, through w...
The CLO accreditation supports the development of a Carbon Literate workforce and requires an organisation to engage positively with its audience or community in developing and delivering low-carbon behaviour.
It also supports direct organisational activity relating to UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 4 – Quality Education, 12 Responsible Consumption and Production and 13 Climate Action.
There will be opportunities each semester to complete this training so please keep a look-out for upcoming dates, or contact Orla Kelleher, Sustainability Champion & PRME Lead at O.Kelleher@derby

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/enterprise-centre:
With a passionate team, inspired by your business and dedicated to service excellence, the Enterprise Centre is the perfect venue for your next conference, meeting or event.
Our three values define our approach, whilst ensuring our venue is distinctly different to any other Midlands conference centre.
With years of experience in providing first-class conference facilities, we understand that no two events are ever the same, and we're dedicated to ensuring that your business benefits from a tailored service that delivers both value and peace of mind.
With inspiring spaces, purposefully designed by leading architects, the Enterprise Centre offers rooms of varying sizes, all flooded with light and fully equipped with the cutting-edge facilities that you need to ensure your day is a success.
Our commitment to quality certainly doesn't end with the facilities or service, because when it comes to catering, our guests are consistently delighted by the first-class, freshly-made food that our passionate chef creates.
Designed by leading architects, every inch of the Enterprise Centre is built with business in mind, just one of the reasons we're considered to be one of the leading Midlands conference venues.
If you fancy holding your meeting or event somewhere a little different, take a look at the spaces we have available for hire at our Chesterfield campus.
Take a look at the spaces across our derby sites which can be hired for meetings and events.
Our delegate and event management service takes the stress away from running your next event.
Located in the heart of the East Midlands, the Enterprise Centre is perfectly positioned to be the venue for your next national event.
Whether you want to pick our brains, check availability, or arrange a look around, our dedicated conferencing and events team at the Enterprise Centre is always happy to help.
Can AI be responsible in Social Care, Health and Public Health?
This conference offers an in-depth look at the transformative potential of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in health, public health, and social care.
When visiting our venue, the beautiful architecture and state-of-the-art facilities are clear to anyone...
but when it comes to our passion and dedication - sometimes you have to feel to believe.
Nothing makes us prouder than knowing we've delivered above and beyond all expectations.
Take a look at some client feedback below.
"As a conference venue the Enterprise Centre was extremely impressive." Hannah Gilbert, Compassionate Wellbeing
"Our meetings at the Derby Enterprise Centre are most enjoyable as nothing is ever too much trouble for the event team there.
The food is excellent and imaginative, the facilities first class and the process from booking to attending on the day is always smooth." Susan Tanner, CEO, The National Outdoor Events Association
"All the staff we spoke to were very helpful and friendly and it was a lovely day.
The attendees have asked if we can have all workshops there in future, which I think is the best testimonial.
Personally I appreciated the air conditioned room as I’m not a fan of hot weather.
The location is very good for access by road from the A38 and also within walking distance of the station which always makes life easier." Kellie Channing, The National Trust
The Enterprise Centre, Bridge Street, Derby, DE1 3LD
Call us 01332 597892 Email us Complete our online enquiry form

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/facilities/filming-locations-across-derbyshire:
Access a range of unique and historic locations across Derbyshire - perfect for filming live action and still photography on modern and period sets.
We can facilitate all kinds of productions with a flexible service and a variety of locations available all year round including:
Unique backdrops perfect for filming advertisements, product launches and photo shoots.
Ideal for drama productions, documentaries and adverts.
See inside our iconic Devonshire Dome
At One Friar Gate Square we have some of the country’s most advanced university law facilities.
Our specialist facilities include a replica crown court.
See inside our court room
Our host of real world clinical suites and leading edge equipment are used to train future health professionals.
These facilities are available to book throughout the year.
Take a look at the Clinical Suites at Chesterfield
With an art gymnasium, climbing wall, squash courts and a large interior space which can be adapted to suit a wide range of activities.
The exterior pitches and courts are also available for hire.
Take a look at the Derby Sports centre
A magnificent grade II* listed building at the edge of the Peak District.
The perfect historical setting for filming a period drama, wedding, or ball.
See inside the Buxton Dome

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/facilities/omics-research-facility:
The objective of the OMICS Facility is to improve the health outcomes of people through a better understanding of the effect foods, vitamins, supplements, and drugs have on the human body to improve metabolic conditions and treat diseases.
The OMICS Facility is equipped with Metabolomics and Genomics capabilities and is supported by the University’s Human Sciences Research Centre (HSRC).
The aim is to improve the health outcomes of people through a stratified medicine approach for a better understanding of the disease pathologies and agents that can improve metabolic conditions and treat diseases.
The University of Derby is already working on metabolomic research for conditions such as Covid-19, diabetes and obesity.
The OMICS Facility provides the University with the capability of universal detection of genes (genomics), mRNA (transcriptomics), and metabolites (metabolomics) in biological samples which will help advance the understanding of diseases and help identify new and innovative solutions to improve health and prevent and treat diseases.
The technologies within the Facility will also be applied to develop forensic investigation work, boost the performance of elite athletes and support new forms of sustainable agriculture, such as vertical farming.
We offer Human Sciences Research services to help your organisation as well as the opportunity to hire our facility with technical support.
If you’d like to work with us or would like further information, please get in touch by making an enquiry or by emailing businessgateway@derby.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/life/accommodation/applying/group-bookings:
If you are visiting Derby as a group, whether for a conference, special interest meeting or leisure purposes, our halls of residence are an ideal base for your stay.
Our accommodation is a short walk from the city centre but also conveniently close to the University and its conference facilities.
A wide variety of room types and price points are available to suit your specific needs and we can accommodate groups of five or more for visits at different times of the year subject to availability.
If you would like to find out more about our group accommodation service, please complete the Conference Enquiries Form at the bottom of this page.
The accommodation is close to the University’s conference and room hire sites, and the new Cavendish Business School (opening Spring 2025) enabling you to organise a conference or group event with accommodation close by.
The city centre is also just a few minutes’ walk from the accommodation ensuring a seamless range of activities for visitors.
As well as offering different room choices with ensuite or shared bathrooms, we provide well-equipped kitchens, communal areas and laundry facilities.
Arranged in cluster flats with between three and eight bedrooms and a shared kitchen, our award-winning accommodation is ideal for large or small groups.
Choose from en-suite, small double, single and accessible room options.
We offer competitive rates with prices starting from £35 (plus VAT if applicable) a night for en-suite rooms and £30 (plus VAT if applicable) a night for standard rooms with wash basin and shared bathroom facilities.
Facilities at our halls include:
Please note: Visitors are responsible for cleaning their own room/ensuite but communal areas are cleaned weekly *except at Darley Bank where no cleaning service is provided.
If you wish to make a group booking, please make an initial enquiry by completing our Conference enquiry form .
Once we know what your requirements are, we will contact you about the booking.

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/facilities/green-screen-studio:
Located at Markeaton Street Campus , our Green Screen studio offers a professional, turn-key filming environment tailored for video production and multimedia content creation.
Purpose-built for capturing presenters in a keyable background with high-quality audio.
The Principles camera is paired with an autocue system, allowing scripts to be displayed in a heads-up format, aligned perfectly with the camera.
Designed for ease of use, the studio enables quick setup and recording to SxS media cards or SDHC cards (via an adaptor).
For more advanced productions, connecting to our TV control room enables a full virtual studio via the Tricaster TC2 Elite system.
This includes dynamic virtual sets with digital moves and side views using an additional camera - perfect for creating engaging communication, training videos or branded content.
Our Green Screen facility is available for use by external businesses looking for a versatile space to create video content.
Equipped with professional-grade technology, the space offers a flexible environment for projects such as video production, virtual events, and other multimedia needs.
With access to top-tier equipment and a dedicated team to assist, the facility provides a practical solution for companies seeking a reliable space to bring their creative projects to life.
Back light:
Photon Beard Highlight 110 with barn doors
Key light:
Photon Beard Highlight 330 with barn doors
Fill light:
Bristol VFX VFX100 U
Sony PMW320k
Libec H70 Head
P110 Pedestal & DL 10 Dolly
10" colour autocue screen
Canon XL-H1
Libec H60 Head
LG 50PS6000 TV
Sony Stereo Comms 2 channel desk station
Stonewood GS CHS2 Dual Muff headset

New sentences found on https://derby.ac.uk/business-services/facilities/podcast-studio:
Located at Markeaton Street Campus , our Podcast Studios feature two ‘Operator/Broadcaster’ studios and one Control Room + Live Room space, the latter ideal for roundtable discussion of up to four people.
The entire suite of studios integrates multiple systems, bringing them together for efficient central processing.
Having recently been significantly upgraded, sound processing is now managed by the industry-leading Calrec Type R solution.
The studios are set up to function independently or to be networked, providing flexible options for various audio production needs.
Recording and playback are handled by PlayoutOne software, and all microphones are the high-quality Rode NT1 Signature Series Condenser Microphones.
The studios can be hired 'dry' or with a dedicated sound engineer to manage your production for you.