# Site: https://www.durham.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk:
Explore our Clearing hub to search our available course vacancies, find out how to apply in Clearing, and learn more about life in Durham.
We prepare our graduates for exciting and fulfilling careers around the world.
Whether you are looking to stay in the UK after graduation or want to explore global opportunities, we will help you stand out.
Read our statement and answers to frequently asked questions.
We conduct innovative and impactful research to transform lives and make a difference, globally and locally: research to empower and inspire.
Supercomputer simulations carried out by researchers in our top-rated Physics department cast doubt on a proposed explanation for the structure of Jupiter’s core.
New research is challenging long-standing assumptions about autism and physical activity, offering fresh insights into the experiences of autistic adults.
Durham University Charity Fashion Show returns for its 43rd year with a renewed focus on alumni engagement, philanthropy, and community.
The UK Space Agency has become part of the UK government’s Department for Science, Innovation and Technology.
Dr Bleddyn Bowen, Associate Professor in Astropolitics and Space Warfare, in our School of Government and International Affairs (SGIA), looks at what this might mean.
Fans of the Botanic Garden are being invited to place their votes in the Royal Horticultural Society (RHS) Garden of the Year competition.
Voters will also be entered into a prize draw to win a £100 RHS Garden gift voucher.
Worried about starting university?
Read this!
At Durham, academic success is only half the story.
Our transformative wider student experience will also help you develop as a person.
Discover the range of opportunities at Durham University and get an insider's look at the celebrated wider student experience.
Whatever you love doing, whatever you might like to try, you will find support and inspiration here.
Join us and be inspired.
Be you.
The Palatine Centre Durham University Stockton Road Durham DH1 3LE
©2025 Durham University

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us:
We believe that inspiring our people to do outstanding things at Durham enables Durham people to do outstanding things in the world.
The Access and Participation Plan sets out how Durham University will improve equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups to access, succeed in and progress from higher education.
Our University Strategy 2017-2027 sets ambitious targets for growth and development, to ensure that we remain at the cutting edge.
We are committed to delivering solutions to the net-zero transition.
We are well-placed to contribute to delivering solutions in the broad areas of energy, food, health, social impact and water.
The Greenspace Movement brings together Durham University's environmental initiatives and activities.
The University’s Energy and Sustainability Team delivers Greenspace, which promotes all of the University’s Environmental Policies, Plans and Procedures.
Durham University has a strong leadership team that is driving forward the ambitious University Strategy 2017-2027.
Discover how our research is changing lives around the world using the button below.
We also have a static PDF version available.
Web accessibility
Disclaimer
Trading name
Cookie policy
Durham University Strategy, 2017-2027 sets out ambitious goals to deliver world-class research, education and wider student experience.
Keep up to date with progress, including news, updates, photographs and more as projects develop.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni:
Now that you have completed your studies you are part of a global and lifelong network of over 230,000 Durham graduates.
You can enjoy a wide range of continued support and benefits, and we’ll help you to stay connected to what’s happening in your local community or at Durham, wherever you are in the world.
Simply keep your details updated and we can support you, wherever your next adventure may take you.
Alumna Rebecca Daniel (Biological Sciences, St Mary’s College, 2014-17) has been selected as one of only five people to join a unique marine research expedition in Tonga, led by Arksen and charity 10% for the Ocean.
Tributes have been paid to former Durham University Vice-Chancellor, Sir Kenneth Calman, who has died.
Hear from our alumni and everything social.
Durham is a university like no other.
We have more than 200,000 alumni, all proud of their Durham experience, and all keen to stay in touch.
You can connect with Dunelm USA , Durham Retired Staff Association and Team Durham .
You can also find information on our latest congregation ceremonies or browse gifts in our shop .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/how-to-contact-us:
Browse this section to find useful and emergency contacts.
Switchboard: +44 (0)191 334 2000 Security Office: +44 (0)191 334 2222
Business School: +44 (0)191 334 5200 Conference/Tourism: +44 (0)191 334 2887 Graduate School: +44 (0)191 334 4570 Communications: +44 (0) 191 334 8623 University Library: +44 (0)191 334 3042
Durham city centre is only two miles from the A1(M).
Leave the motorway at Junction 62 on the A690 Durham - Sunderland road and follow signs to Durham City Centre.
Durham is 264 miles from London, 187 miles from Birmingham, 125 miles from Edinburgh and 67 miles from York.
There are several express coach services daily from most major cities.
Durham is well served by both regional express services and the local bus network.
From the city bus station - a short walk from the railway station - a bus service runs every 15 minutes past the Colleges on South Road.
Durham is 30 minutes' drive from Newcastle International Airport and about 40 minutes from Teesside International Airport .
Both have regular domestic and international flights.
Durham is linked to Newcastle Airport by rail and metro.
A number of train operators offer direct and regular routes to Durham Railway Station, including London and Edinburgh.
Durham is around 3 hours from London, just over 3 hours from Birmingham, 2½ hours from Manchester, 1½ hours from Edinburgh and 45 minutes from York.
A taxi will take you from the station to any College in about 5 minutes and you can walk to the city centre in 10 minutes.
Scheduled ferry services link the River Tyne to The Netherlands.
Find out who to contact in the event of an emergency on campus
We take the safety and wellbeing of our community seriously and are available 365 days a year 24/7 to support with your security needs.
Whether you’re a student, staff member or visitor our Security Team are here to help.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library:
Our supportive staff are here to make sure you get the most out of our libraries and collections at Durham.
We have four library and study space sites within our department.
In Durham city you'll find Bill Bryson Library, Barker Research Library at Palace Green and study spaces on Level 2 of the Teaching and Learning Centre.
At Queen's Campus, Stockton, you'll find the ISC Library.
Bill Bryson Library (often referred to as the Billy B) is our main University Library, and you will find a fantastic range of resources to support your studies.
Visit our guide for further information and opening times.
Durham University Library Stockton Road DURHAM DH1 3LY United Kingdom
Our Archives and Special Collections are held within Barker Research Library, located in the historic Palace Green Library.
Visit our guide for opening times and further information , or use our online enquiry form.
Barker Research Library Palace Green Library Palace Green Durham DH1 3RN United Kingdom
The International Study Centre (ISC) Library is for use by ISC students and staff at Queen's Campus, Stockton and can be found on level 2 of the Ebsworth Building.
ISC Library Queen's Campus, Stockton University Boulevard Thornaby Stockton-on-Tees TS17 6BH United Kingdom
The Teaching and Learning Centre (TLC) is a short distance from the Bill Bryson Library and provides space for independent study.
Teaching and Learning Centre South Road Durham DH1 3LS United Kingdom
Find out how to visit our Libraries, Museums and Collections sites.
Find out more about our two partner libraries, Durham Cathedral Library and Ushaw College Library.
Keep up to date with our latest news and additions to our collections.
Search our events calendar, we offer a diverse range of activities and exhibitions.
Follow us to keep up to date with our latest posts.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business:
Part of a world top 100 university every year since 2010
Durham is an international triple accredited business school.
Founded in 1965, we are one of the UK's longest established business schools and are proud to be integral to Durham University.
Sharing insights, supporting innovation and teaching tomorrow’s leaders.
We believe that to succeed in business, you need to get closer to the realities of business - so that’s what we do.
We combine our academic excellence, insightful research and exceptional global business connections, to equip our students and alumni to become innovative business thinkers of the future and an influential individual in and beyond their careers.
A globally outstanding centre of teaching and research excellence, a collegiate community of extraordinary people, and a unique and historic setting – Durham is a university like no other.
Please note that due to high demand, all our Clearing course vacancies for UK students have now been filled.
If you're an international student and have found a course vacancy you want to apply for, please fill in the Clearing application form below, or call our Clearing hotline.
The MSc International Business programme takes a global perspective to prepare you to successfully negotiate the realities of management in an international setting.
Delivered fully online, in a part-time study format, our new MSc in Accounting Analytics and Sustainability (MAAS) in an executive-level programme.
In 2025, Durham University Business School proudly marks 60 years of excellence in business education, research, and impact.
Since our founding in 1965, we have shaped generations of leaders, advanced groundbreaking research, and built a strong global community.
Our programmes combine academic excellence and outstanding research with global business connections.
Add to that, exceptional skills and career development opportunities, you will find a learning experience that equips you for success in your chosen career.
Our three DBA programmes offer experienced business managers and executives the opportunity enhance business and career knowledge.
The Durham PhD enables you to combine rigorous academic theory with research to influence the world of business and make a unique contribution to your field of study.
People who lose a parent during childhood are significantly less likely to invest in the stock market later in life.
A major collaboration between Durham University, Newcastle University and Procter & Gamble (P&G) has resulted in the development of a new framework to support industrial decarbonisation in the consumer goods sector.
A new report from the Northern Powerhouse Partnership shines a spotlight on the North of England’s innovation ecosystem, exploring its role in driving productivity and unlocking future economic potential.
The report is co-authored by Professor Kieran Fernandes, Executive Dean of Durham Business School.
Here he delves into how the region can harness its innovation strengths to fuel long-term growth and prosperity.
This issue centres on change and transformation, exploring how engaging with opposing viewpoints can drive meaningful progress, the role of AI in human resource management and the challenges of balancing a demanding career with home life.
Durham University   The Waterside Building Mill Hill Lane              Riverside Place Durham                      Durham DH1 3LB                     DH1 1SL UK                               UK

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do:
Durham University is home to internationally important collections from across history and around the globe.
We welcome visitors to our museums and galleries and garden.
Located in two clusters, at the heart of the UNESCO World Heritage Site and to the south of the city, our venues are open year-round and are open to all.
Explore exciting events and exhibitions across our venues.
Durham University’s museums, collections and Botanic Garden welcome hundreds of thousands of visitors each year.
Our aim is to be a front door to Durham University, sharing the wealth of knowledge and research generated by students and academics from all over the world who use our collections.
Find out more about who we are and how you can get in contact.
Our Learning and Engagement Team offer a range of interactive taught programmes and events for schools, community groups, families and life-long learners.
There are lots of different ways you can get involved with our venues and collections.
Find out more about joining one of our Friends organisations, volunteering your time or donating to the collections.
Learn more about our opportunities for artists and creative practitioners.
We welcome anyone who wishes to study our collections and archives.
We offer a range of research facilities at our museums and other collections sites for pre-booked research visits.
c/o Oriental Museum Elvet Hill Durham DH1 3TH

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study:
Our research-led education ensures our broad range of courses will challenge and inspire you.
Our taught Masters and research programmes will enable you to push the boundaries of current thinking and research.
Your prospectus - in just a few clicks.
You'll find a lot of these in Durham: Bridges, river bends, beautiful historic buildings, trees and more.
Students at one of the many independent coffee shops in Durham.
A typical scene on the Bailey in the centre of Durham.
One of our many award-winning Buildings: the Ogden Centre.
Loads of study spaces and resources: Inside our main library, the Bill Bryson Library
Get moving!
Our Sports and Wellbeing Park is full of cutting-edge facilities and has you covered.
The never conquered Durham Castle: Now the home for our University College.
Ustinov college - our only postgraduate only college.
To achieve the extraordinary, you’ll need access to exceptional and sustainable facilities.
At Durham, you’ll find modern and purpose-built lecture theatres and seminar rooms, as well as state-of-the-art labs and well-stocked libraries.
The historic city of
Durham is compact, yet varied.
Easy to get around, it offers a wide range of cultural and sporting pursuits, and also a huge number of places to eat, drink and meet friends.
So whatever your interests, you are certain to find your place here.
We're committed to supporting the best students irrespective of financial circumstances.
We offer a range of scholarships for undergraduate, postgraduate (taught and research), international and current students.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Find out more about Durham and don't miss out on important information and advice.
Whatever your interests, whatever your passion, we’ve more than likely got a course for you.
We currently have 27 departments and schools, offering over 200 undergraduate courses, not to mention postgraduate degrees, both taught and research.
We think you’ll be spoilt for choice.
Our research-led education will challenge you, inspire you and help you achieve the extraordinary.
Our distinctive college system and wider student experience programme including drama, music, sport, volunteering, and more will help you to grow and develop as a person.
We offer a range of scholarships for local, home and international students, as well as course, department, college, art, sport or music specific bursaries and awards.
Our collegiate system makes Durham exceptional.
Join our supportive community and benefit from our outstanding wider student experience.
With students from over 120 countries, Durham University is truly worldwide, based in the beautiful city of Durham, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, in the North East of England.
Our student ambassadors are here to answer your questions about student life at Durham.
They are studying various courses, know our colleges and are from different countries.
Read what our students are up to and learn what studying at Durham really looks like.
It might surprise you!
Our Foundation programmes provide academic preparation for undergraduate study at Durham.
The Durham University International Study Centre provides International Foundation Year programmes for international students.
What attracted me to Durham and the North East?
Find out everything you need to know about what happens when you receive your results, and how to prepare to join us.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Postgraduate taught study will extend your knowledge and skills and allow you to specialise in a subject beyond undergraduate level.
A postgraduate qualification can enhance your career prospects or take your career in a different direction.
Durham offers a wide range of research degrees which can be studied on a full-time basis for one, two or three years or on a part-time basis for two, four or six years.
As well as conventional research degrees, we also offer innovative professional doctorates, giving you the opportunity to follow a structured programme of taught modules before undertaking an extended research thesis.
You will develop your own timetable of academic study under the supervision of a team of academic staff.
Their roles are to help and support you to undertake your research project and complete your degree on time.
The University ensures that your supervisory team has appropriate expertise in your area of study, and we have extensive training and mentoring programmes to support them to deliver high-quality supervision.
When applying to study for a research degree you should consult with your academic department to check that a supervisor with expertise in your chosen subject area is available to support you.
Postgraduate study is the next step after your undergraduate degree if you're looking to boost your employability.
You may wish to delve deeper into your undergraduate subject, continue working with your academic supervisors, or perhaps discover a whole new field of study in another department or faculty.
We're committed to supporting students irrespective of financial circumstances and we offer a range of support to help the brightest and best students access a world-class education.
We might be one of the UK’s oldest universities, but we have a pioneering mindset and an open, inclusive outlook.
Whether you’re looking to connect with international industry and business through your work, or the global academic research community, you’ll have the freedom and facilities to explore what’s important to you.
Come and visit us on a Postgraduate Open Day to experience what life as a Durham student would be like.
If you are an international student and don’t meet the requirements for entry to a postgraduate degree you may be eligible to take a pathway programme at the Durham University International Study Centre.
Located at Queen’s Campus Stockton, the centre provides a supportive environment where you will be introduced to the style of teaching you will experience should you progress on to your degree.
Taught over two or three terms depending on your level of English language, the Pre-Masters programme provides the specialist academic and English language preparation you need to succeed as a postgraduate student at Durham University.
Once you successfully complete this Pre-Masters programme and achieve the required grades, you can start your chosen Masters degree at Durham University.
If you don’t have British (or Irish) nationality and you're planning to travel to the UK to study at Durham, you may need to apply for a visa before you travel.
The type of visa / permission you need depends on the course you're coming to study.
Have a question about applying to Durham University?
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 1000
Information for keeping our community safe.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international:
Are you considering your options for undergraduate or postgraduate study starting this September?
Due to high levels of volatility we know some students may still be considering applying or transferring to a UK university at this late stage.
We’re here to help you.
Studying abroad is a unique and exciting experience.
You will be studying at a world top 100 university with a global reputation for teaching and research.
Lecturers are world-leaders in their fields and students benefit from cutting-edge facilities.
They represent a range of different course and colleges.
Durham is one of the world’s leading universities, as shown by our world top 100 position in the QS World University Rankings 2024, where we are ranked 78th.
Nationally, we’re consistently a top ten UK university and ranked 7th in the Guardian University Guide 2024.
At the heart of Durham’s global student outlook are our study abroad, exchange and global opportunities programmes.
These allow incoming international undergraduate students to spend time in Durham.
We accept a wide range of qualifications from the UK and the rest of the world.
If you aren’t studying in a majority English speaking country, then you will need to demonstrate English language proficiency through an accepted English language test.
What you’ll need to do when you arrive at Durham, including collecting your Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) and completing the Right to Study check, providing TB test information and registering with the Police (if you’re required to).
The Durham University International Study Centre offers the International Foundation Year, Pre-Masters and English Language Preparation programmes to prepare you for an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at Durham University.
Working during your study can be a good way of earning extra income and gaining valuable experience.
Make sure that any work you do doesn't affect your study, we recommend that you limit part-time work to 12 hours per week.
Please get in touch if you have any questions about studying at Durham or our research.
The Palatine Centre Stockton Road Durham DH1 3LE

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/employability:
Durham’s global perspective, coupled with our academic excellence and transformative wider student experience, will ensure you stand out in the jobs market.
Our dedicated Careers & Enterprise Centre is here to support your career planning from the very start of your time at Durham.
We offer a range of services to help you explore opportunities, engage with employers, build up valuable experiences, and prepare for the recruitment process.
We can support you in understanding employer expectations, in the UK and overseas.
If English isn't your first language, we can also help you to enhance your language proficiency and professional communication.
Throughout the year, we host a wide range events such as sector-focussed careers weeks and fairs, giving students the chance to engage directly with graduate recruiters and industry experts.
We also deliver focused workshops for international students, through our International Outlook Programme
We can support you with work experience and work placement opportunities during your studies, helping you plan internships, placement years and other global opportunities.
We also offer Durham exclusive work experience opportunities, helping you earn while you study, as well as building up valuable skills and knowledge.
The Hazan Venture Lab is Durham University's first purpose-built space for entrepreneurship.
Featuring individual and group working areas, a bookable meeting room, mini-library and kitchen facilities, the Hazan Venture Lab is open to all Durham University students and graduates working on new ventures or enterprising projects.
Through the Venture Lab you can access startup coaching, workshops and events, competitions and funding including the Blueprint Startup Challenge, and Game Changer - our innovation challenge.
Past participants in Venture Lab activity have gone on to feature on Dragon's Den, Forbes 30 Under 30 and have been finalists in the Earthshot Prize.
When you graduate, you'll join an inspiring global community of alumni working across the world in a wide range of roles and sectors.
Our careers support continues after graduation, with lifelong access to our employer engagement opportunities and digital resources to keep your career moving forward.
We know many of our international students will be looking to secure positions in the UK after graduation.
We subscribe to Student Circus , a job search platform for international students that lists filtered visa job listings, internships, and placement opportunities based in the UK.
Equally, students may wish to pursue global opportunities.
We subscribe to Grad Link which features useful resources and vacancy information with highly ranked employers and is aimed at students studying in the UK who want to work overseas after graduation.
If you are hoping to return to China after completing your studies you will have access to the Lock in China website to find graduate opportunities.
Opportunities are available in a range of sectors with excellent career progression.
Durham University graduates bring innovation, leadership and real impact.
Whether you want to turn a bright idea into a great new business or use your talents to work freelance, we provide the support you need.
Watch the video to find out why Stanley Black & Decker values the expertise of our outstanding graduates.
We are here to help you to make career plans and take the next steps towards getting where you want to be.
Unleashing entrepreneurial potential through transformational experiences.
Find out more about the many careers, enterprise and employability opportunities which students have during their time at Durham and beyond.
Read about careers fairs to part-time jobs, applying for graduate schemes, and setting up your own business venture.
Discover how Durham’s Careers and Enterprise service helps our students thrive beyond graduation, with the latest news and success stories.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience:
Accommodation costs are based on whether your allocated college is catered or self-catered, and then by the room type the college offers.
When you come to Durham, you are entering a community, not just embarking on a course of study and like all communities we create, perform, play and support, as well as working.
Durham University is world-leading in academic fields, but we also pride ourselves on challenging you to participate above and beyond your academic commitments.
Durham Students' Union is the representative body for all students of the University, and offers many different clubs and societies to join.
As a Durham student you'll find a wide support network available to you while studying at the University.
Run by current University students, discover more about Durham student life, from those who know it best.
Search stories from across the University and subject areas, covering essentials such as college life and events, to everything in between.
Listen to the latest Podcast or subscribe on YouTube

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges:
At Durham every student is a member of a college and every college has its own character and traditions.
The colleges are the cornerstone of our extraordinary wider student experience, and each one provides an inspiring and supportive community.
In your college, you’ll be surrounded by all sorts of different people, studying a wide range of subjects at different levels of study.
You’ll meet people who share your interests, and others who’ll inspire you to explore your intellectual curiosity and develop new ideas.
College membership doesn’t end at graduation.
Our students often tell us that their college experience was one of the most important parts of their time at Durham.
Friendships made at college can last a lifetime.
Every college provides:
Our unique collegiate experience You will feel at home from the moment you step through the door.
Colleges are like extended families: safe, supportive and inclusive.
In your college, you’ll be surrounded by friendly faces and you’ll have the chance to get to know all sorts of extraordinary people.
You will feel at home from the moment you step through the door.
Every student is a member of a college and every college provides a sense of community and belonging, which stays with you all the time you are a student and long after you leave.
Our Colleges offer space to live, as well as to socialise, and mix with other students and there are numerous opportunities to engage in sport, events, music, theatre, and the arts.
All our Colleges provide facilities to support your academic learning, and your personal development, such as libraries and social spaces and, in some Colleges, a chapel or prayer room.
Each College has dedicated staff to support and enable your personal development and wellbeing.
As a Durham University student, you automatically become a member of a college.
For undergraduates, you will be able to rank our colleges in order of preference once you have been made an offer.
All first year undergraduates can apply to be guaranteed an offer of University accommodation.
Second and third year undergraduates live in private accommodation but are still fully involved in college life as a member; they participate in societies, enjoy formals and events and consult college staff for guidance and support.
Accommodation and catering residence charges Contact the Accommodation and Allocations Team Download the Undergraduate Colleges Guide
For postgraduate students, colleges inspire individuals to explore their intellectual curiosity by bringing together students from all different disciplines.
There are 17 colleges in total, including Ustinov, our postgraduate only college.
Each offers a wide range of facilities to help you make the most out of your university experience.
For postgraduates, you will be contacted directly by the Accommodation and Allocations Office to express college preferences once you accept your postgraduate offer.
There is availability for around one third of postgraduate students to live in University accommodation, while two thirds live in private accommodation but are still fully involved in college life as a member.
In all of our colleges you will find a sense of community and belonging that is distinctive to Durham, which stays with you throughout your time as a student and beyond.
In your college, you can take part in sport, music, theatre  or volunteering.
You can join multiple clubs and societies, enjoy social events and dinners, and make friends for life.
Accommodation and catering residence charges Contact the Accommodation and Allocations Team Download the Postgraduate Colleges Guide
To help you choose your preferred college, take a look at our comparison tables which highlight key information such as: the number of ensuite or shared rooms, catering options, gowned formal dinners and facilities such as chapels or faith rooms.
Undergraduate College Comparison Table
Postgraduate College Comparison Table
Our Colleges are spread across Durham; take a look at our interactive map for details.
Key
Our Colleges host a variety of accommodation options, which include rooms within Colleges and at purpose-built student accommodation in the city and catered and self-catered options.
Rooms and bathrooms will differ depending on the college, but all of our bedrooms are equipped with:

• A bed with a mattress, desk, chair, wardrobe and drawers
• WiFi access with the ability to create a local wireless network for your devices
• Full catering or self-catering facilities such as shared pantry or kitchen
• En-suite or shared bathroom facilities.
Colleges are safe spaces to try new things, to challenge yourself and to transform.
They are the places where lifelong friendships begin and new passions are found.
What is a Common Room?
Student life at Durham is shaped by our students, with every college having representative bodies that are known as Common Rooms.
All colleges hold formals, an opportunity for staff and students from the college to enjoy dinner together.
Formals often have a theme such as Burn's Night, Valentine's Day, or Harry Potter.
We actively encourage our students to volunteer across our local community.
Student-led, community-focused projects offer you the chance to learn new skills and to make a positive impact.
With over 550 teams, across 18 sports, our college sport structure is one of the largest and diverse intra-mural programmes in the world.
Our colleges offer a range of opportunities to engage in visual arts, for example special exhibitions, artists in residence, installations, language cafes and student competitions.
There are over 80 music societies at Durham, plus university and college choirs.
This means plenty of concerts and performances, as well as masterclasses to build your skills.
The University has over 30 theatre companies, all led and run by our students.
These provide opportunities for performers, backstage workers and front of house crews.
Your College community will shape your university experience and stay with you for life.
Each Common Room is made up of elected voluntary student officers, including an Executive Committee.
They represent the students from their college and organise many of the events and activities.
In some of our colleges students wear gowns to formals and in others they wear black tie, smart evening wear or sometimes fancy dress.
As well as formals, colleges hold other events throughout the year such as balls and annual college days.
There are a multitude of benefits that can be gained through volunteering at university, including giving back to the local community, boosting your self-esteem and confidence, and meetings.
Participation in college or University sport plays a broader role in the well-being of many students, presenting opportunities to make friends and feel part of a community.
Plus our recreational activities are open to both staff and students.
Throughout the year, our JCRs and MCRs organise a wide range of opportunities to engage in visual arts in college.
Student competitions are in areas such as photography, poetry and art.
Each college has its own music groups, and there are also some intercollegiate groups.
From St Aidan's Voices to Collingwood Big Band, Hatfield Flute Choir to Mildert's 'Jam by the Lake', and open-mic events, there is no shortage of music to get involved with and enjoy.
We have 14 college based theatre societies.
Everyone is welcome, regardless of experience, so whether you want to be onstage, producing, directing or even running your own theatre company, we'll support you to do the things you love.
Our colleges are mixed communities of staff and students from across the university.
Each college offers an exciting blend of activities ranging from sports and theatre, to music and volunteering.
There are endless opportunities to have fun and explore new interests, you'll make lifelong friendships and discover new passions.
Discover what Durham student life is all about, from those who know it best – our students.
Search stories from across colleges and subject areas covering essentials such as accommodation, college life, course info, events, research and everything in between.
Listen to our student podcast, all about the college experience.
Each college has dedicated staff to support and enable your personal development and wellbeing.
We enable you to become the best version of yourself academically and socially.
Supporting our Student Pledge encourages good citizenship.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities:
Whatever you love doing, whatever you may like to try, you will find support and inspiration here.
Opportunities can be found across all parts of the University.
You can showcase your talents, do something entirely different or enjoy the entertainment and appreciate the work of others.
Our performing arts, our visual arts, our museums, our art collections and our student media are thriving at Durham and there really is something for everyone to enjoy with over 80+ student-led music societies , 30+ theatre companies , dance societies , 20+ visual arts societies, 1 multi- award winning radio station .
Your career can get started long before you graduate, from organising student-led events to participating in work-study opportunities and developing start-up companies.
You’ll have many opportunities for curiosity-led academic activity beyond your degree course - from engaging with guest lecturers in your Department, to taking part in dissertation “open mic” nights in your College.
Over 1,000 guest speakers, talks and debates per year across departments, societies and colleges.
Some would say this is the foundation of the Durham experience!
Dining as a community, helping to run your Common Room, taking part in celebration events, faith societies or peer mentoring - and much more.
Physical activity is a cornerstone of the student experience at Durham.
From international representation and University and College Sport, right through to personal training, fitness and wellbeing classes, there is so much for you to enjoy and participate in.
At Durham we are Britain’s Number 1 Team Sport University, over 10,000 community sports facility users per year and 7 00 College Teams.
Volunteering, supporting environmental projects and pro-bono work are some of the most meaningful memories many students build of their time at Durham.
Our students collectively participate in over 40,000 volunteering hours per year.
Our students don’t hesitate to stand up and work for positive change.
The University and the Students’ Union are home to a host of issues-based and political groups and campaigns on key student issues.
We’ve invested £32 million into our sports facilities with state-of-the-art equipment at our sports hub Maiden Castle Sports and Wellbeing Park to inspire the extraordinary.
Regular performance opportunities with access to masterclasses  with professional musicians and use of venues within and beyond the University, including the Gala Theatre and Durham Cathedral.
A plethora of innovative and charming locations to create unique and immersive experiences including a 175 seat theatre filled with history and tradition, Black-Box Spaces and Site-Specific spaces.
Maiden Castle Sports and Wellbeing Park offers 12 badminton court sports hall with spectator provision, a five-lane cricket hall, Purpose built martial arts studio and 90 station fitness suite with additional strength and conditioning
58 new Steinway & Sons pianos are to be installed across our campus as we join the All-Steinway Initiative, with an intention to become an All-Steinway University
Outside Assembly Rooms Theatre situated on North Bailey in the most historic part of Durham.
It is the main venue used by Durham Student Theatre and is host to over 30 productions a year.
It is also home to the Durham Student Theatre executive committee office, a box office, workshop, green room, two changing rooms, props and costume store, and a scene dock.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/welcome-and-orientation:
We're looking forward to welcoming you from September 2025.
Information for International students arriving in Durham
Use the Online Planner to create your personalised schedule, simply select:    

- Your Department

- Your College

- Your Level of Study (Undergraduate, Postgraduate Taught or Postgraduate Research)
If you are experiencing any issues with enrolment and registration, please log it with the Smart Service Gateway and we will aim to resolve it as quickly as possible.
If you have any queries about any of this information or any aspect of coming to Durham please contact us.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/student-support-and-wellbeing:
At Durham we want every student to reach their full potential.
There is support available for you throughout your journey with us to help you succeed.
Guidance on what to do in cases of emergency.
Crisis Support, including 24 hour support, help lines, and more.
We have a range of specialist services and sources of advice and guidance available to you throughout your time in Durham.
You can find out more by following the links below.
If you’re struggling financially, there is help available.
It’s not always easy to talk about money or ask for help, but there are various ways to get the support you need.
Keeping your finances under control is vital to enjoying your time at University.
Find out how to manage your money as a student, and who to turn to if things go wrong.
We encourage students to ensure that their vaccinations are up to date before they arrive in Durham.
We take the health and wellbeing of our students very seriously.
We encourage students to register with a local medical practice so that they can access doctors and healthcare in Durham when they need it.
We work alongside the NHS Sexual Health Foundation trust to provide students with a service on campus, within Durham City and online.
Find a list of conditions or ailments that can be easily treated by visiting the pharmacy counter instead of booking an appointment to see a Doctor or GP
At Durham, we are committed to creating a welcoming, respectful, and inclusive community where every individual feels valued and supported.
Here you will find all of the information about the Student Community Induction course, resources and support information.
We take reports of bullying and harassment, hate incidents, sexual misconduct, domestic abuse and spiking seriously.
The Report + Support online tool is for non-emergency reports and can be used to report to access support or anonymously.
Fees and funding information for undergraduate students.
Fees and funding information for postgraduate students.
Our Suicide Safer Strategy covers suicide prevention, intervention and postvention, and is designed to make Durham University as safe as we can.
We’re proud to be part of Durham and of the positive contribution we make to Durham City, Durham County and the wider North-East region.
Find out more about student support and wellbeing at Durham.
The Palatine Centre
Durham University
Stockton Road
Durham
DH1 3LE, UK
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 2000

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/student-support-and-wellbeing/counselling:
The Counselling and Mental Health Service comprises three teams of trained and experienced practitioners to help students manage any difficulties that are impacting your successful engagement with their studies and with University life.
We are available, free of charge, all year round to registered students.
There is widespread interest in student mental health and in the support provision offered by Universities.
We have collated a set of the most frequently-requested data on the services offered by the Counselling & Mental Health Service at Durham University.
This is summarised for academic years 2017/18 – 2023/24 in the following tables:
The Counselling & Mental Health Service offers a range of services to students and staff.
For the academic years 2019-24 we have produced an additional table of data to reflect the activities of:
This data is limited to the Counselling & Mental Health Service.
Durham University has a wide range of support services, including Student Support staff in our residential colleges, Academic Advisors, mentors, chaplains, and our students who work as peer-support through their roles on college or Society committees.
It is not possible for us to collate data on the support offered by this broad network.
Students are signposted towards the Counselling and Mental Health Service for support when they are experiencing mental health difficulties or are facing distress that is best-served by our specialist team.
We analyse data by academic year, from 1 September to 31 August.
Support for our students frequently extends beyond a single term, so we do not collate data on a termly basis.
Durham University does not operate a semester programme.
We do not collect data on waiting times for services.
We are working with internal and external partners to create a suicide strategy to make Durham University a safer place for students.
Further information is available here .
Information for students currently attending Durham University who need to access Counselling and Mental Health Services.
If you or someone you know is at risk, or in urgent need of emotional support, there is information on a range of internal and external resources offering support and guidance.
Information about some of the services we work with.
Click for more information.
How you can find and contact the Durham University Counselling & Mental Health Service.
Durham University Counselling & Mental Health Service
Palatine Centre
DH1 3LE
Telephone: 0191 334 2200

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/student-support-and-wellbeing/disability-support:
Welcome to Disability Support at Durham!
We’re here to help with your study support requirements if you have a disability.
Whether you're thinking about applying to Durham, are already an applicant or a current student, our team can help.
We’re pleased to offer the Early Arrival Programme (EAP) — a supportive initiative designed to help autistic students settle into university life ahead of the main Welcome Week.
The form will open at 9am on Monday 18 th August and will close at midnight on Sunday 31 st August.
There are 100 places available on the programme.
If capacity is reached, a waiting list will be established.
You can register your interest here .
Disabled students make up over 25% of the student population at Durham.
We work with partners across the University to make sure our environments, policies and practices are inclusive.
Our mission is to support disabled students to engage fully with their learning experience and achieve academic success.
Disability can mean different things to different people.
It may include you if you have a physical or sensory condition, a long-term medical condition (including medically recognised mental health difficulties such as depression or anxiety disorder), or a neurodiverse condition, such as dyslexia, dyspraxia, ADHD or Autism.
Further information about what help you can receive from Disability Support.
We have collated some of our most frequently asked questions, find out more information here.
Contact us to find out more about our services and how we can help you.
Disability Support
Telephone: +44 (0)191 334 8115

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/student-support-and-wellbeing/student-safety:
We take the safety and wellbeing of our community seriously and work closely with a range of external partners in matters of health and safety, including via the Durham City Safety Group .
All parties are committed to making the City as safe as possible.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/student-support-and-wellbeing/student-conduct:
These webpages provide a comprehensive single source of information for students and staff on Harassment and Sexual Misconduct.
They provide information on how the University will manage any incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct, outline reporting processes, and summarise the support and training available.
The Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education (OIA) runs an independent scheme to review student complaints.
The University encourages all students to seek advice and guidance prior to or while involved in University procedures.
The codes and procedures around behaviours and standards.
If you have any enquiries, please contact us.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/research:
At Durham, our academic staff conduct forward-thinking, interdisciplinary research that has an impact on communities all over the world.
Collaboration with a broad mix of partners is central to enhancing global knowledge and developing global citizenship.
University Research Institutes
Current Research
Research News
Academic Departments
Grow Your Business
Research Centres
Develop Your People
Facilities and Services
Explore our diverse range of projects, from spin-out creation, research collaborations and supporting innovation.
Whether we're tackling net zero challenges, advancing health sciences, or developing new technologies, our case studies showcase the impact and success of businesses and researchers working with us.
Among our scientists, social scientists, business, arts and humanities scholars we have world-leading authorities in their field.
We are one of the top universities in the world, for taking action to address the most pressing environmental, social and governance challenges facing society today.
Our researchers are shaping the world, from the intimate to the infinite.
Research at Durham brings together the leading minds in their fields who work collaboratively across departments and with our partners to develop new ways of thinking that have a positive impact on societal and global challenges.
Whether you’re looking to connect with international industry and business through your work, or the global academic research community, as a postgraduate at Durham you can expect the freedom and facilities to explore what’s important to you.
A new tool to understand how people imagine differently when reading could have potential implications for the treatment of mental ill health.
Drawing on a study of legislative changes in Austria, Germany, Ireland and the UK, Omar Hammoud-Gallego, Pat McGovern and Eiko Thielemann identify a new development in immigration control that extends beyond borders into the workplace.
We develop opportunities for businesses to: link with policymakers, understand our research governance and connect with academic researchers.
The UK Government is seeking to end the use of hotels to house asylum seekers.
Professor Jonathan Darling, from our Department of Geography, explains the situation and how ‘asylum hotels’ became so contentious.
Research and Innovation Services Durham University, Boldon House, Wheatlands Way, Pity Me, Durham, DH1 5FA.
E: business.gateway@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/research/current:
Research that makes a difference.
Research, scholarship and ideas are at the core of Durham University.
We are home to some of the most talented researchers and scholars from around the world, tackling global issues, and making a difference to people's lives.
Research directly informs our undergraduate and postgraduate teaching and, in partnership with policy-makers, industry, the public sector, and communities around the world, shapes local, national and international agendas.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/research/university-research-institutes:
Our ten University Research Institutes (URIs) are powerhouses of interdisciplinary innovation.
We foster the conditions for innovative and impactful research, addressing global and regional challenges: research to empower and inspire.
Operating across faculties and departments, the URIs bring together researchers from diverse disciplines and perspectives.
We support the development of new ideas, methods and approaches, secure transformative funding from philanthropic sources and research funding bodies, and deliver impact through research on cross-cutting themes and pressing global challenges.
In advancing interdisciplinarity, the URIs strengthen and nurture Durham’s research environment, both within our own research communities and across the University.
We exemplify research leadership, develop innovative skills and methodologies, and build research capacity within and across disciplines.
We share knowledge through continuing professional development and executive education programmes , consultancy, and mentorship; host lectures, seminars and workshops; and forge strong links with decision makers , in industry, government and the third sector.
URIs sustain vibrant and dynamic research cultures.
We make a distinctive contribution to their associated faculties and departments by encouraging new interdisciplinary approaches to teaching and training , nurturing the thought leaders of tomorrow.
Working closely with local, regional and global partners, UR Is connect Durham and its UNESCO World Heritage Site to the wider world.
Explore the world-changing research of our individual University Research Centres, and keep up to date with their latest news and events.
We warmly welcome applications for three posts as Co-Director of the Institute for Medical Humanities.
For any media enquiries relating to the University Research Institutes, please contact the Communications Team.
Research and Innovation Services Durham University Boldon House, Wheatlands Way, Pity Me, Durham, DH1 5FA.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/research/helping-business:
We actively partner with regional, national and international organisations making connections to our academic expertise, student talent and equipment and facilities.
We have a range of business support programmes available and would love to hear about your ideas and requirements.
Orbit is our enterprise zone, located at NETPark in Sedgefield, a hub of innovation for ambitious science and technology companies.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) can help your business to innovate and grow.
KTPs are a leading programme from Innovate UK that brings together a company, an academic team and high calibre graduate, known as an Associate, to work on an innovative project.
Improve your competitiveness and productivity, through better access to research, technology and skills.
We're one of the UK's leading research universities with world-class expertise in science, engineering and technology, business, social science, the arts and humanities.
Our graduates are some of the most sought after in the UK, offering a range of knowledge, skills and experience developed by excellent teaching and internationally rated research.
Browse opportunities to promote your vacancies and engage with students.
With a £45,000 grant from EPSRC IAA (Impact Acceleration Account) we employed a post-doctoral academic to work on a secondment basis with our partner Offshore Renewable Energy (ORE) Catapult, developing prototype software.
Intelligent Gels is a SME in the North East.
This business creates novel and innovative solutions using gel chemistry.
Matt Wilson, the Managing Director successfully applied to be part of the ERDF Intensive Industrial Innovation Programme.
The Intensive Industrial Innovation Programme (IIIP) is supporting Northern Accelerator spin out Atelerix to work with Newcastle University PhD student Anastassia Kostenko.
The Intensive Industrial Innovation Programme (IIIP) is supporting Hart Biologicals to work with Teesside University PhD student Lucy Butler.
Lucy is working on a project to modify bacteria to produce a compound used in blood testing.
The Intensive Industrial Innovation Programme (IIIP) is supporting Magnitude Biosciences to work with PhD student Giulia Zavagno.
Giulia is working on a project to screen for compounds to help with the prevention of degenerative diseases.
The Intensive Industrial Innovation Programme (IIIP) is supporting Cievert to work with PhD student Matthew Watson to analyse NHS data.
Using computer algorithms and machine learning Matthew’s project helps improve patient diagnosis.
Join our mailing list to receive information about funding opportunities, programme updates, student and graduate recruitment opportunities, news and events.
Having transformed research commercialisation across the North East of England and North Yorkshire, the Northern Accelerator partnership has secured an additional £4.3m to expand its support and create more successful businesses in crucial sectors.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/research/facilities-and-services:
We work with external organisations and our academic colleagues to facilitate the creation of new research and commercial opportunities, ensuring that Durham University's research is world-changing with global impact and reach.
We have an extensive range of state-of-the-art research equipment and facilities across a range of disciplines.
Supported by a grant of £4.7m from the UKSPF, In-TUNE is a regional collaborative project in partnership with four North East Universities (Durham, Newcastle, Northumbria, and Sunderland) and CPI.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/global-durham:
International partnerships are a core part of Durham's outstanding research and vibrant learning communities.
We value international collaboration as central to enhancing global knowledge and developing global citizenship.
Africa
South Asia
East Asia
Europe
Middle East & North Africa
Latin America & the Caribbean
North America
South East Asia and Australasia
We offer a range of activities, options, funding, and support for students from all backgrounds and degrees to gain international experience working, studying or volunteering abroad during their degree.
We've been ranked 22nd in the QS World University Rankings for Sustainability 2026.
Coldplay, Radiohead or R.E.M.
– which band has changed their music the most over the years?

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/global-durham/partnerships:
Durham University works in partnership with research institutions around the world, to share and grow global knowledge.
Here are some of our connections across the regions of the globe.
Students interested in studying abroad, please visit the Global Opportunities pages for a list of our exchange partners.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/global-durham/networks-and-consortia:
We are proud to be a member of the following international consortia, organisations & networks:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us:
Thinking about studying with us?
The best way to explore the wealth of opportunities on offer is to join us at our Open Day events.
Our Museums and Attractions promote learning and education for all.
Whether it's Little Dragons at the Oriental Museum, adventure trails at our Botanic Garden, or tours of Durham Castle, we have something to offer just about everyone!
Explore key sites across the University and city in this virtual tour.
Complete with Departmental 360 tours and videos, this is a great way to get a feel for the area before you arrive or to visit Durham from afar.
From Congregation ceremonies to opportunities for schools, find out more about visiting Durham.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/open-days:
If you are interested in applying to Durham or already have an offer, we have plenty of ways for you to find out more, either by visiting the campus or joining us at one of our online events.
Whether you choose to us visit in-person or online, we have a variety of events and sessions to suit you.
Join us to discover more about our academic programmes and find out what postgraduate life is like here at Durham.
Pre-bookable International campus visits are available for students visiting from outside the UK.
They're a great way to find out more about the University and the city.
If you are interested in Postgraduate study and are unable to visit us in-person.
We have many online sessions where you can meet us virtually.
Check out our list of FAQs or submit an enquiry form.
Find out about international recruitment fairs and other events abroad.
Find out about recruitment fairs that we are attending in the UK.
Fill in our form to hear more about Durham University, including when open day events are launched.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/schools:
Schools Outreach & Widening Participation team works with students and schools around the UK, throughout the year, on a variety of programmes.
Our aim is to recruit the best students for the courses that the University offers, irrespective of background, and to support the applications of those who are applying through expert advice and guidance.
Our staff are knowledgeable admissions advisers and higher education advisers with wide-ranging experience in the Higher Education sector and a diverse range of educational backgrounds and knowledge.
We can provide guidance on many aspects of the application process, including admissions tests and personal statements, as well as provide information and guidance about Durham University.
We work with post-16 students across the UK and pre-16 students within the North East.
Contact the Schools Outreach & Widening Participation team using the link in the Teachers section below, for anything outside of this.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/location:
Durham University is based in the city of Durham, located in the North East of the UK.
To help you navigate around the University, we have a range of static maps which form part of our Self Guided Tours.
Queen's Campus is currently home to the Wolfson Research Institute and the Durham University International Study Centre, in the town of Stockton-on-Tees (also called ‘Stockton’).
Set beside the River Tees, Queen’s Campus has an excellent range of world-class facilities but is small enough to feel safe and welcoming.
The historic city of Durham is compact, yet varied.
Take a tour of key sites across the University and city.
Get a feel for Durham before you arrive or take a virtual tour of our Departments, complete with helpful videos and interactive elements.
Using mobile?
We recommend viewing the virtual tour directly to make the most of the 360 functionality.
Take a virtual tour on your mobile.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer:
From receiving your offer to results day, you have a lot to think about before joining us at Durham.
We're here to help you with the essential next steps as you start your university journey.
Whatever your interests, whatever your passion, we think you’ll be spoilt for choice.
Our distinctive college system and wider student experience programme  will help you to grow and develop as a person.
After you've submitted your application and received your offer, you're bound to have questions!
We've put together some helpful related links to help you find what you're looking for.
Whether you're an offer holder, or perhaps the parent or carer of a loved one applying to uni, we're here to put your mind at ease.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer/clearing:
Once you have your results and you're ready to get started, explore our courses in Clearing.
Join our live online Q&A sessions designed to support you through the Clearing process with confidence.
Whether you're still exploring your options or ready to apply, our Student Recruitment Team will be joined by our Student Ambassadors and International staff to answer your questions in real time.
Explore our Frequently Asked Questions to get answers to your Clearing questions.
Our handy overview of what Clearing is, and how it works.
Find out everything you need to know to support your child through Clearing.
We will make an offer of accommodation to all new undergraduate students who request it.
Once you accept an offer of a place to study at Durham via Clearing, the Colleges Membership and Accommodation Office will contact you about confirming accommodation.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/ask-us:
You can contact us using the Ask Us enquiry form below and we'll get back to you as soon as possible.
To help us answer your query, please tell us a bit more about who you are.
Alternatively, you can call us on 0800 987 4120.
Our phone lines are open Monday to Friday, 10am – 4pm.
If you aren't sure whether you are a home or an international student, you can find out more from UKCISA (UK Council for International Student Affairs).

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/events-in-the-middle-east:
This page will be reviewed and updated.
Updated: 9am, 18 June 2025
As a University, we remain deeply concerned by the situation in the Middle East, including the ongoing conflict in Israel and Gaza, as well as the more recent developments in Iran and Israel, and its impact on all civilians.
We are monitoring this worrying situation closely.
Our priority continues to be in ensuring the safety and wellbeing of our students, staff and our wider community affected by these events.
We remain in continued dialogue with them to offer support and assistance and to hear and address any concerns.
We have reaffirmed our commitment to increasing practical support for higher education in Gaza, including boosting financial aid for scholarships for Palestinian students from the West Bank and Gaza and providing direct support to Palestinian academics.
We are involved in discussions at both institutional and national levels to find effective ways to assist students whose education has been disrupted by the war or who will need higher education in the future.
We continue to support all students and staff affected by this crisis and to strive for the cohesion of our diverse global community.
The support available to our staff and students is outlined below.
Some of our staff and students, and our wider community, are personally affected by these events.
We continue to do all we can to support them, offering our compassion, care and practical support.
We are communicating regularly with staff and students to outline the support and assistance available to them.
With our Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Equality, Diversity and Inclusion) and other key University officers, we continue to work closely with all students and staff directly impacted by the conflict to provide individual and direct support whenever and wherever needed, including but not limited to our Durham Palestine Educational Trust (DPET) students, our Jewish Society and our Islamic Society.
We work with and through our colleges, Durham Students’ Union, our Chaplaincy Service and line managers.
We continue to work with DPET, an independent UK charity, to provide scholarships for Palestinian graduates to study for Masters degrees at Durham.
We are actively monitoring the situation so we can take appropriate actions.
As an international university with a deep commitment to social responsibility and democratic values, we are experienced in supporting people affected by humanitarian crises and conflict across the globe.
Support available to students is wide-ranging.
It may include academic, wellbeing or financial support from professionally trained staff.
Our students may contact their College Student Support Office , the Counselling and Mental Health Service and the multi-faith Chaplaincy Service .
Support is also available from Durham Students’ Union .
Our staff may seek support from their line manager and department.
They also have access to our Employee Assistance Programme (internal access only) , which is available 24 hours every day, and our Chaplaincy Service .
Further details of the support and assistance available for our students and staff is provided in our Staff FAQs and Student FAQs .
Students may also see our Student Support hub: Student Support Hub (internal access only) .
Students have specifically asked us whether the impact of the conflict can be cited as a serious adverse circumstance in relation to their academic progress.
We have confirmed this is the case.
This is addressed in communications and Student FAQs .
We remain concerned about evidence from bodies such as the Community Security Trust (CST) and Tell Mama of the steep rise in antisemitic and anti-Muslim incidents on university campuses in the UK.
As an inclusive community, we do not tolerate antisemitism or anti-Muslim hatred.
We condemn in the strongest possible terms any incidents of racism or targeting individuals or groups for their religious, political or cultural beliefs.
We would strongly urge any staff or students affected by any such incidents to report them to us via our Report + Support tool , or, where appropriate, the Police, so that they can be investigated.
Durham is a university where diversity is respected, valued and celebrated.
We are committed to creating a community that values different perspectives and lived experiences.
We are also committed to actively listening and maintaining open lines of communication with our students and staff so voices across our community can be heard, respected and supported.
We consistently and robustly uphold freedom of speech within the law and academic freedom.
We are working to build a respectful and inclusive environment where people feel comfortable to be themselves and flourish no matter what their race, background, gender or sexual orientation.
We encourage respectful behaviours from everyone in our community.
We have wide ranging and world-leading academic expertise in areas such as Middle Eastern Studies and Jewish Studies, as well as international law, and peace and security studies.
We actively encourage our academic staff to play a role in promoting expert understanding of all issues related to this and other global conflicts.
We are resolutely focused on supporting all our students, staff, and wider community.
We will continue to do so, striving for community cohesion and condemning antisemitism and anti-Muslim hatred.
Members of our community are of course free to express their views and concerns on this, as on any other matter.
The University approach will be:
We have reaffirmed our commitment to increasing the practical support on offer to higher education in Gaza.
The University has already increased its financial commitment to scholarships for Palestinian students from the West Bank and Gaza and its direct support to some Palestinian academics.
We are also engaged in institutional and national discussions about the most effective way to help those students whose higher education has been interrupted by the war or who will need higher education in the future.
We do so in collaboration with the Durham Palestine Educational Trust and other organisations dedicated to protecting and promoting higher education in conflict settings, such as Universities UK , Cormack Consultancy Group and CARA, amongst others.
The University adopts the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance’s (IHRA) working definition on antisemitism in line with the UK government and recommendations from the United Nations.
The University also adopts the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on British Muslims’ definition of Islamophobia in line with UK governmental bodies.
Use the resources below to find help, support and advice.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/global-durham/durham-global-week/global-impact:
Read about our Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 impact case studies.
Interested in how the cultural activities of Durham's staff and student bodies enrich life worldwide?
Head to the Global Culture page to find out.
Sign up for our research newsletter to receive the latest updates on ground-breaking studies, acclaimed academics, and emerging trends shaping the academic landscape.
Designed for researchers, senior leaders and curious minds, our newsletter delivers valuable insights and expert commentary.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/scientists-challenge-theory-behind-jupiters-mysterious-interior:
They found no evidence to support the idea that a massive collision with another planet could have created Jupiter’s remarkable dilute core.
Jupiter’s core does not have a sharp boundary but instead blends gradually into the surrounding layers of mostly hydrogen.
The origin of this dilute core is unclear, but understanding it is of particular interest to scientists, especially since Saturn is also thought to have a similar internal structure.
The research findings challenge a previous study that suggested that a collision with another planet billions of years ago could have thoroughly mixed-up Jupiter’s core, enough to explain the planet’s interior today.
The research team, which included scientists from NASA, SETI and CENSSS, University of Oslo, performed simulations on the DiRAC COSMA supercomputer, using the state-of-the-art SWIFT software.
These new simulations allowed scientists to better understand what might have happened if a large planet had collided with Jupiter.
Their results suggest that even if a massive collision occurred, the heavy materials in Jupiter, after initially mixing into the surrounding layers, would quickly sink back down, forming a core with a sharp boundary.
Their results suggest that even if a massive collision occurred, the heavy materials in Jupiter would not get mixed to a stable state, and a core with a sharp boundary would re-form soon after the impact.
These findings have big implications for how we understand not only Jupiter, but giant planets more broadly.
The simulations carried out in this study suggest that the gradual transition of materials seen in Jupiter today likely formed over a much longer period, rather than in a single dramatic event.
As part of this study, cutting-edge simulation methods were developed, proving to be highly effective for modelling planetary impacts.
Going forwards, these methods will allow scientists to study, with unprecedented accuracy, the processes that have shaped both the planets in our Solar System and exoplanets around distant stars.
Our Department of Physics is ranked 88th in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025.
Visit our Physics webpages for more information on our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/primate-thumbs-and-brains-evolved-together-new-study-finds--:
Scientists have shed fresh light on how human hands and minds evolved together, finding that longer thumbs in primates means bigger brains.
Researchers studied 94 different primate species, including fossils and living animals, to understand how our ancestors developed their abilities.
They found that species with relatively longer thumbs, which help with gripping small objects precisely, consistently had larger brains.
The research, published in the journal Communications Biology, provides the first direct evidence that manual dexterity and brain evolution are connected across the entire primate lineage, from lemurs to humans.
Humans and our extinct relatives boast both extraordinarily long thumbs and exceptionally large brains.
However, the link remains strong across all primates: when scientists removed human data from their analysis, the connection between thumb length and brain size remained.
Professor Robert Barton of our Anthropology Department is a co-author of the study.
He said: “For the first time we have been able to link two of the most distinctive features of humans, hand anatomy and brain size.
“These are key features that enable humans and other primates to literally grasp and manipulate their world.”
The scientists made a surprising discovery about which part of the brain grows alongside longer thumbs.
They expected longer thumbs to be linked to the cerebellum because it is a brain region heavily involved in movement and coordination.
Instead, longer thumbs were connected to the neocortex.
This is a complex layered brain region comprising approximately half the volume of the human brain and which communicates extensively with the cerebellum to jointly coordinate behaviour using sensory information.
Professor Barton says it was a surprise that only one of the two major brain regions they thought would be involved in the growth process actually was.
The findings suggest that as primates developed better manual skills for handling objects, their brains had to grow to process and use these new abilities effectively.
The researchers say further work is needed to establish exactly how the neocortex supports manipulative abilities.
The study was led by Dr Joanna Baker of the University of Reading, UK.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/durham-expertise-shapes-new-national-theatre-exhibition-on-greek-drama-:
We’re supporting a new exhibition at the National Theatre in London which explores how ancient Greek tragedies continue to inspire modern theatre.
‘The Greeks: Radical Reinvention’ has been curated by Dr Lucy Jackson of our Department of Classics and Ancient History, in collaboration with the National Theatre Archive.
The free exhibition tells the story of how the National Theatre has reimagined Greek drama across six decades.
Visitors will discover how four essential elements of ancient Greek theatre - sound, space, dance and community - continue to shape new productions.
The exhibition uses the theatre’s archive material, bringing past shows to life through stage artefacts, photographs, recordings of music, as well as recitals of ancient verse.
Dr Jackson said: “We might not think that plays written over two and a half thousand years ago can ask really pointed questions about the way we live now.
But they do.
“From the politics of music to the rights of refugees, these plays still have the power to provoke and inspire.
“This exhibition shows how radical reinvention is in fact the most authentic way of restaging a Greek tragedy for today’s audiences.”
Our collaboration with the National Theatre is part of a wider commitment to sharing research and expertise beyond the University.
Dr Jackson has previously worked with the National Theatre Archive on the free educational video series, ‘In Search of Greek Theatre’.
This explores the challenges and creativity involved in staging ancient plays for modern audiences.
‘The Greeks: Radical Reinvention’ opens in the National Theatre’s Wolfson Gallery on September 9 and runs until early 2026.
Main image shows the cast in Medea (2014) at the National Theatre.
(Image credit: Richard-Hubert-Smith)

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/black-holes-may-be-the-engines-driving-the-universes-dark-energy:
Researchers at Durham and collaborators in the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI) mission have proposed a bold new theory that black holes could be converting matter into dark energy.
The international team of researchers have combined DESI data with observations of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) to provide a new way of understanding the components of our universe.
In the new model, stars collapsing into black holes trigger a process that gradually transforms infalling matter into dark energy.
This transformation tracks the cosmic star formation rate, allowing the model to naturally evolve over time and match both early- and late-universe observations.
The new study follows recent findings by DESI which suggest that dark energy's influence on the universe - long believed to be constant in time - is actually changing.
It proposes that black holes may be the engines behind the universe’s mysterious dark energy - while also shedding new light on the mass of elusive fundamental particles known as neutrinos.
Scientists know these fundamental particles (neutrinos) have masses that are greater than zero and so contribute to the amount of matter in the universe.
However, because they are so difficult to detect, the exact value of their mass has yet to be measured making these the only known particles whose mass is unknown.
Researchers discovered that interpreting DESI data within the standard model of the Universe - where dark energy is constant - results in a matter budget that is too small.
This leads to the unphysical conclusion of requiring negative neutrino masses, leaving no room for neutrinos.
Scientists from Durham’s Institute for Computational Cosmology, led by Dr Willem Elbers, proposed in a paper last year that the evolution of dark energy could be responsible for the apparent mismatch in the neutrino masses.
This new study presents a concrete model that brings the neutrino mass back into a positive value, in agreement with known physics.
DESI is an international experiment that brings together more than 900 researchers from over 70 institutions.
The five-year DESI mission, managed by the United States’ Department of Energy through the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California, aims to map the large-scale structure of our universe over an enormous volume and a wide range of cosmic epochs.
Durham’s involvement includes experts from the Durham’s Institute for Computational Cosmology, Centre for Advanced Instrumentation and Centre for Extragalactic Astronomy.
These new findings, led by the University of Michigan, have been published in the Physical Review Letters.
These discoveries could significantly reshape our understanding of how the universe has evolved over time.
Find out more
Image caption: The Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument is mounted on the U.S.
National Science Foundation’s Nicholas U.
Mayall 4-meter Telescope at Kitt Peak National Observatory—a program of NSF NOIRLab—in Arizona.
Credit: KPNO/NOIRLab/NSF/AURA/B.
Tafreshi (Used under a CC BY 4.0 license)

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/professor-nayanika-mookherjee-awarded-top-anthropology-honour-:
Political Anthropologist Professor Nayanika Mookherjee has been honoured with the 2025 Rivers Memorial Medal, one of the highest accolades in Anthropology.
The Medal is awarded by the Royal Anthropological Institute for outstanding contributions to anthropology, with an emphasis on fieldwork and a significant body of theoretical literature.
Professor Mookherjee is Co-Director of our Institute of Advanced Studies, and her interdisciplinary work explores how societies remember violence and imagine fairer futures.
Her research spans war crimes tribunals, memorials, wartime sexual violence, graphic ethnogra phy, digital surveillance and nearly three decades of fieldwork in Bangladesh.
Using ethnography and visual storytelling, Professor Mookherjee examines how memories of conflict shape politics, aesthetics, and ethics today.
Her work has shaped global conversations on ethical testimonies, public memories and gendered violence during conflict.
It has contributed substantially to the well-being of survivors and ethical discussions on sexual violence during conflict.
In 2022, Professor Mookherjee theorised and edited the volume ‘On Irreconciliation’ to explore the politics of non-forgiveness, justice and the possibilities of accountability after conflict.
The work allowed an important examination of the rule of law within processes of unresolved genocidal injustices, debates relating to enslavement, memorialisation, removal of statues and institutional responses to bullying and harassment.
The concept of Irreconciliation has had extensive interdisciplinary interest and resonance.
Professor Mookherjee was invited to deliver the 2023 Firth lecture on this theme at the Association of Social Anthropology of UK’s annual conference.
The lecture generated discussions among those researching genocide, state violence, reparative justice as well as those working on climate change and mental health.
The theoretical frameworks has been widely deployed by academic and non-academic communities within and beyond anthropology.
Professor Mookherjee is currently preparing a book on the ‘Arts of Irreconciliation and the Futuring of Bangladesh’ covering the debates of the liberation war of the country and the 2024 uprising.
Professor Mookherjee said she was honoured to receive the 2025 Rivers Memorial Medal, adding: “The research among various communities has meant so much for my learning, thinking, writing and teach ing.
“I am absolutely delighted with this recognition .
“For various survivor communities a critique of the symbolic performance of redressal has become very important.
“This creates the possibility of not only registering the impact of violence.
“It also creates a political space for them in the face of the corrosive realities that the lack of acknowledgement of injustice engenders.
“It is also important to critically understand various forms of irreconciliation and victimhood.”

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/durham-joins-16m-project-to-boost-uks-digital-research-capabilities:
We are playing a key role in a new £1.6 million initiative to strengthen the UK’s digital research infrastructure.
The Computational Abilities Knowledge Exchange (CAKE) NetworkPlus has been launched to connect experts, share skills, and encourage collaboration across the country.
The project, funded by the UK’s Digital Research Infrastructure (DRI) programme, is led by EPCC at the University of Edinburgh, with us and the University of Cambridge as major partners.
Professor Tobias Weinzierl from our Computer Science Department is co-leading the network’s knowledge exchange hub.
The UK is home to world-leading digital research facilities and projects, but these efforts can sometimes be fragmented.
CAKE aims to bridge gaps between different communities, helping to share best practice, reduce duplication, and achieve greater impact.
By linking researchers, technical experts, and policy leaders, the network will ensure that advances made in the UK are recognised internationally.
It will also help bring global innovations to the UK, driving collaboration with partners around the world.
Over the next three years, CAKE plans to unite diverse communities involved in digital research, showcase UK successes at major events, and create opportunities for knowledge exchange.
This autumn, the network will launch its first call for DRI Knowledge Exchange Fellows.
These fellows will receive funding to promote collaboration in their specialist areas, with more calls to follow.
The programme will also support global placements and exchange visits, enabling UK experts to work alongside international teams on shared challenges.
In addition, a series of retreats will bring together specialists to address major technical issues, combining complementary skills to find innovative solutions.
The Knowledge Exchange and Communications NetworkPlus was launched as part of the UK’s new compute roadmap.
Our Department of Computer Science is among the top 10 in the UK in the Complete University Guide 2025.
Visit our Computer Science webpages for more information on our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/widening-participation-blog:
Jonathan Batty, our Deputy Academic Registrar (Access, Admissions and Recruitment), argues that widening participation will only deliver real change when it is co-developed with partners in places.
In the North East of England, fewer than one in three 18 year olds enter higher education, compared to a national average of 37 per cent.
For higher education institutions, including my own, this is more than a regrettable statistic.
It must be a call to action.
The Sutton Trust’s Opportunity Index highlights that the North East ranks lowest of all English regions for social mobility prospects, with the poorest students in the region facing some of the most limited chances for progression into higher education and good employment.
As a country we have undoubtedly made progress in widening participation, but as someone who spends their days thinking about such things, I worry: are we measuring that progress in the right ways?
It’s not just about the gateway to university, it’s about the university journey and beyond.
Or, to put it in more human terms: are people who previously wouldn’t have gone to university not only getting in, but thriving once they’re in?
If we carry on measuring widening participation purely by entry stats and graduate salaries, we’ll miss the bigger picture, and what many of us went into higher education to try to achieve: deeper, transformative impact.
A university education does more than prepare someone for a job.
There is good evidence that links it to longer life expectancy , better health , and greater stability.
The benefits of university go beyond the individual.
Children of university graduates are much more likely to attend university and perform better once there .
When a young person from a disadvantaged background earns a degree, it can spark a ripple effect that changes their family’s trajectory for good.
There’s also a clear economic case for seeing success more broadly.
Graduates typically pay more in tax , rely less on welfare services, and are more likely to engage in civic life .
In regions like ours, where economic renewal and social mobility are deeply connected, that impact is amplified.
A university education doesn’t just boost an individual’s prospects – it helps build stronger, more resilient communities .
If we are truly serious about transforming lives and levelling up opportunity, especially in so-called “cold spots” like County Durham, then we need to dig deeper, beyond continuation rates and into attainment and the feeling of belonging.
Financial strains, cultural barriers, wellbeing concerns, and more must be recognised and overcome.
These are challenges not just for admissions, but across the entire student journey.
Attainment gaps have a substantial impact, and disadvantaged students can be up to 22.7 months behind advantaged peers by the time they take their GCSEs.
GCSE performance is strongly correlated with later life outcomes , including university attendance and employment quality.
Early outreach is therefore pivotal in closing these long-standing gaps.
It’s a challenge we take seriously.
We’re not just widening the door – we’re reshaping the whole experience: investing nearly £1.5m in programmes for Key Stage 4 and 5 students, strengthening our foundation programme, and working with Sunderland AFC’s Foundation of Light to create a new health hub in one of our most deprived communities.
One of the clearest messages of our new access and participation plan is how deeply place and perception are intertwined.
Many young people in North East England don’t just lack opportunities – they’re not even sure those opportunities are meant for them.
And, sadly, some still perceive Durham to be a place where they wouldn’t belong.
Multiple studies show a strong link between a sense of belonging and academic success, particularly for underrepresented groups.
So we’re investing in transition support and the Brilliant Club’s Join the Dots programme, which connects incoming students with peer coaches from results day onward.
What we’re trying to achieve with our strategy cannot and should not be measured solely in continuation rates and degree classifications.
Our evaluation strategy includes:
While our approach is rigorous, we anticipate several challenges.
Students from disadvantaged backgrounds face cost-related pressures that may impact belonging and continuation.
And persistent concerns about whether students from working-class or Northern backgrounds “belong” at Durham risk undermining recruitment and retention.
We aim to confront this through co-designed interventions, but change in perception takes time.
We believe that we can only succeed for the North East by working with others: through Universities for North East England – which includes Durham, Newcastle, Northumbria, Sunderland, and Teesside; and the new Durham Learning Alliance partnership with four local colleges – we must expand educational opportunities and drive economic growth.
When people see that their goals and dreams are genuinely realisable, they’re far more likely to engage.
After all, who are we to define what success should look like for someone else?
The government’s opportunity mission gives higher education a rare, and much-needed, moment to pause and reset.
Let’s not waste it.
We’ve got a chance to rethink what success means – not just for universities, but for the people and places we serve.
Let’s broaden the conversation beyond who gets through the door.
Let’s put co-development at the heart of everything we do.
And above all, let’s keep listening – not just to what students need, but to what they hope for.
In the end, the real test of progress isn’t just who gets in.
It’s who gets on – and how far they go, with us walking alongside them.
- This article was first published on WonkHE .
- More about our approach to access and participation .
- More about Jonathan Batty .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/rethinking-autism-and-exercise-new-study-challenges-old-assumptions--:
It found a lack of understanding and knowledge about autism among movement professionals such as sports coaches, fitness instructors, teachers or healthcare professionals.
For many autistic adults, the barriers to physical activity go beyond physical limitations which often have been touted.
They include sensory sensitivities, social expectations, and past negative experiences.
These challenges are often misunderstood, leading to a perception that autistic individuals lack interest in exercise when the issue is far more nuanced.
The research team calls on experts to co-produce neurodivergent-informed physical activity practices with autistic adults which account for the specific needs, interests and abilities of autistic adults.
Traditionally, research in this area has focused on children, with little attention given to how autistic adults engage in physical activity.
This new study from our departments of Sport and Exercise Sciences and Psychology addresses that gap by prioritising the voices of autistic adults in middle adulthood aged between 36 and 59.
This is important because autistic adults have low levels of participation in physical activity, therefore missing out on its many health, well-being and social benefits.
Published in the journal Autism, our researchers explore the complex biological, psychological and socio-cultural factors that shape autistic adults’ participation in physical activity.
And they introduce the concept of neuro-normative assumptions - the societal expectations that frame physical activity and assumptions made about autistic people in a way that can exclude autistic individuals.
Another significant contribution of this study is its trauma-informed approach.
Historically, autistic individuals have been under-served, experienced victimization and even exploited by research institutions, leading to deep mistrust.
This study acknowledges that history and seeks to frame physical activity in a way that is inclusive, supportive and centred on the needs of the person, rather than prescriptive.
So instead of taking a deficit-based approach which has been the dominant way of thinking in the field focusing on what autistic people cannot do - this research recognises and values their different ways of experiencing the world with a focus on what they can do and how that relates to their engagement in physical activity.
This neuro-affirming approach builds on on-going research at our Centre for Neurodiversity and Development aimed at enabling neurodivergent people to thrive in all aspects of life.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/uk-parliamentary-intelligence-report-on-iran:
Our renowned international relations expert, Professor Anoush Ehteshami, has played a key role in a high-profile Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament (ISC) inquiry.
The inquiry, which focused on Iran, was conducted by ISC - a statutory committee responsible for overseeing the work of the UK Intelligence Community.
The results of the extensive inquiry were published recently in a report, which takes in a culmination of evidence from August 2021 to August 2023.
Professor Ehteshami, an expert on Middle East regional security from our School of Government and International Affairs, was invited to provide oral evidence to the full ISC at its official premises.
The ISC regularly gathers evidence from a wide range of sources, including Government Ministers, heads of intelligence and security agencies, and senior officials across the UK Intelligence Community.
They also call upon expert witnesses such as academics, journalists, and other relevant stakeholders.
Professor Ehteshami participated as part of a panel of three experts, which also included one of the UK’s former ambassadors to Iran.
The Committee’s work is supported by the Office of the ISC - a dedicated team of analysts and investigators with expertise in legal, technical, and financial matters, as required.
Due to the classified nature of the topics discussed, usually evidence sessions are held in private.
The Committee said it was particularly grateful to the experts from outside the Intelligence Community for volunteering their insights on Iran, which provided an invaluable foundation for the inquiry.
Professor Ehteshami was director at our Institute of Middle Eastern and Islamic studies until 2022 and holds the Nasser al-Mohammad al-Sabah Chair in International Relations in the School of Government and International Affairs.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/ancient-cave-clues-reveal-secrets-of-the-maya-civilisation-collapse:
A team of scientists, including researchers from our Earth Sciences Department, has discovered new evidence that long-lasting droughts played a major role in the decline of the ancient Maya civilisation more than a thousand years ago.
By studying the chemical makeup of a stalagmite from a cave in Mexico’s Yucatán Peninsula, the researchers discovered a series of severe dry spells between 871 and 1021 CE, the period historians call the Terminal Classic.
The longest drought lasted an astonishing 13 years.
The research, led by the University of Cambridge, analysed oxygen isotopes in the stalagmite, which grows slowly over centuries as water drips onto the cave floor.
These isotopes reveal changes in rainfall, allowing scientists to pinpoint the conditions of individual wet and dry seasons, a level of detail never achieved for this period in Maya history.
The findings show there were eight wet-season droughts lasting at least three years, which would have made it extremely difficult for the Maya to grow crops, even with their advanced water management systems.
This matches archaeological evidence showing that major cities, such as Chichén Itzá, stopped building monuments during these harsh periods.
Professor James Baldini, Dr Christopher Ottley, and Dr Alex Iveson from our Department of Earth Sciences played a key role in the project.
They carried out specialist trace element analysis on the stalagmite using laser technology.
This helped confirm that the climate record was accurate and ruled out other possible explanations for the changes seen in the cave sample.
These stalagmites not only tell us about the collapse of Maya civilisation but could also help us understand how climate has influenced other societies through time.
Our Department of Earth Sciences is ranked in the top 100 in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025.
Visit our Earth Sciences webpages for more information on our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/08/durham-university-charity-fashion-show-2026:
Europe’s largest and most successful student-led fundraiser continues to evolve.
Over the 2025/26 academic year Durham University Charity Fashion Show (DUCFS) is inviting alumni to take part in its journey.
To reunite DUCFS alumni and kickstart the 2026 campaign, the society invites its global network of former members to join them for a relaxed evening of conversation and connection at The Phene in Chelsea on Tuesday 19 August.
Whether you were a model, marketer, production crew member, or on the executive committee, come along and reflect on the continued impact of the DUCFS community.
You can view more event details using the link at the bottom of this article.
The society would also love to hear your stories, memories, and insights.
Were you on the catwalk, or working behind the scenes?
Has your DUCFS experience shaped your career?
No matter where you are now, get in touch to share and inspire current students starting out on their DUCFS journeys using the details at the bottom of this article.
Whether you’re based in Durham, London, or further afield, there are many ways to get involved with DUCFS 2026:
Image courtesy of Lewis Burnham Photography.
Since 2018, DUCFS has raised over £1 million for causes including mental health, environmental justice, youth development, and cancer care.
Recent highlights include:
Alongside national charity partnerships, DUCFS continues to grow its local outreach through Launchpad, an initiative that collaborates with grassroots organisations such as RTProjects and Durham City of Sanctuary.
One standout project, the DJ School, launched by Durham graduates, helps young people explore music production and develop creative skills.
DUCFS student volunteers play a key role in successful delivery.
Creatively, DUCFS 2026 invites audiences to confront the digital age.
Its theme, ‘Reality: Rewired’, explores the complexities of modern life - our growing dependence on technology, the rise of artificial intelligence, and the fading line between human and machine.
The show will capture both the beauty and anxiety of living in a hyper-connected world, actively working to reimagine, rather than simply reflecting it.
The search for DUCFS’ 2026 charity partner is also underway, with a continued focus on supporting impactful work in the North East of England.
DUCFS is best known for its four-night fashion show each February, which attracts over 4,000 attendees.
Behind the glitz and glamour lies a year-long campaign driven by student creativity, collaboration, and philanthropic commitment.
Events run include art showcases and sustainability workshops, fundraising challenges and panel discussions.
Every pound raised goes to a nominated charity, creating a tangible impact within Durham’s local community and nationally.
DUCFS offers a platform for students to create, connect, and give back.
Watch the aftermovie from DUCFS 2024: ‘The Future is Now’.
Video: Nicholas Chan (videography), Molly Mihell and Cameron Wylie (2024 creative direction), Asha Persaud (music direction).
Main article image: courtesy of Ollie Turan Photography.
-----
Sophie Sutton, PR Director
Charlotte Edwards, President

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/07/30-years-of-jonathan-edwards-triple-jump-record-:
Olympic gold medallist and Van Mildert alumnus, Jonathan Edwards (Physics, Van Mildert College,1984-87) has celebrated 30 years of his 1995 triple jump world record, which remains unbroken.
The record-breaking jump took place in the World Championships in Gothenburg on 7 August 1995.
Jonathan jumped an impressive 18.29 metres.
He is one of only seven men in history to have surpassed 18 metres.
His world record was followed by two Olympic medals.
He won silver in the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta and gold at the Millenium Olympics in Sydney.
Jonathan maintains close ties with the University and Van Mildert College.
He returned the University to receive an Honorary Doctor of Civil Law in 2009.
More recently, he joined fellow alumni at a Gala Reunion Weekend celebrating Van Mildert College's 60 th Anniversary.
As guest speaker at the formal dinner, his reflections touched on sport, community, legacy and the changing landscape of university life.
Jonathan joined more than 320 alumni from graduating years 1968 to 2024 to mark 60 years since the College was founded - he has been a World Record holder for half of that time!

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/07/careers-mentoring-programme:
A pioneering career mentoring programme aimed at connecting recent university graduates employed within Atom Bank and EY with first-year students, has concluded its latest cycle with remarkable success, strengthening early-career support and professional development across disciplines.
Launched in January 2025, the programme pairs industry professionals who graduated within the past five years, with students just beginning their academic journey.
Its goal: to provide real-world insight, foster confidence, and equip undergraduates with the tools to navigate university life and the future world of work.
Thirty undergraduate students participated in this year’s pilot cohort, engaging in one-on-one mentoring sessions, skill-building workshops, and networking events.
The programme created a dynamic community where questions about career paths, work-life balance, internships, and industry expectations could be discussed openly and honestly.
Feedback from both mentors and mentees highlights the programme’s impact.
100% of mentees reported their employability skills are stronger following the mentoring programme, while 93% of mentors found the experience valuable in enhancing their own leadership and management skills.
With such a strong response, plans are already in motion to expand the programme next year.
Organisers aim to widen participation across additional year groups and introduce new themed events focused on diversity in the workplace and entrepreneurial thinking.
Andrea Hillery, Work-Based Learning Manager at Durham University said: “We’re incredibly proud of what this initiative has achieved.
The transition from university to the workplace can be daunting.
By connecting students with mentors who were in their shoes just a few years ago, we’ve created a bridge of shared experience, empathy, and practical advice.”
Students who have been mentored by an employees at EY, described the experience as “Empowering, helping to build confidence in the workplace and their desired careers.
Student work work mentors progressing towards goals through a series of workshops and meetings.
For mentors, the programme offers a chance to give back, while continuing to grow professionally.
An Audit Associate at EY was excited about the potential to make a positive impact and foster growth within the community.
The involvement of mentors not only allowed them to share their own knowledge and experiences but also help guide others at the start of a career.
Mentoring builds a bridge between aspiration and experience.
By connecting students with early career professionals, it empowers personal growth, nurtures confidence, and offers invaluable insight into the world of work.
At Durham we are sincerely grateful to our employer partners for their time, generosity, and commitment to supporting the next generation of talent through this programme.
As the next wave of students prepares to join the university, they can do so knowing they have access to a vibrant network of recent graduates ready to support and inspire them.
This mentorship initiative has not only prepared students for the world of work—it has created a lasting culture of connection, collaboration, and shared success.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/research/current/thought-leadership/2025/08/uk-space-agency-changes:
The UK Space Agency (UKSA) has become part of the government’s Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT).
The announcement was made on August 20 2025 by Chris Bryant MP, minister of state for data protection and telecoms.
Cutting red tape and duplicative bureaucracy within DSIT and UKSA seems to be the main rationale in the press release – that and bringing “together the people who shape space policy and those who deliver it”.
Though it sounds like a demotion for UKSA, what the changes mean in practice for the crafting of UK space policy, and the direction of UK space policy itself, remain uncertain.
More importantly, rearranging the deckchairs of DSIT and UKSA will not resolve the chronic problems facing British space policy.
The first problem is that UKSA has lacked a clear identity and responsibility over policy, regulation and research within civil space activities.
It is not like Nasa or the European Space Agency (Esa) – UKSA does not operate satellites, nor conduct major research and development projects by itself.
UKSA has competed with the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) over licensing and regulatory powers for satellite launches from the UK, which the CAA has possessed since the mid-2010s.
On research, UKSA acted mostly as a research council, rivalling the work traditionally performed by the UK Research and Innovation’s and Science and Technology Funding Council (STFC).
STFC apportions funding for space science and research for universities and industry.
UKSA is also the main point of contact for distributing Esa funding for British industry and university contributions to Europe-wide space projects.
UK space policy has always been an interdepartmental and Cabinet Office concern, and UKSA has traditionally only factored into consultations on the regulatory and civil space research dimensions of UK space policies.
Since 2021, DSIT has taken on more space policy responsibilities regarding industrial strategy, further eroding a unique role for UKSA.
UKSA therefore has not carved out a clear niche that other departments or executive agencies cannot already claim competency within.
The UK government’s position that duplication needs to be addressed is not an unreasonable one.
The devil is in the details – which are missing at this time.
It is hard to say whether the bureaucratic changes will be better or worse for the creation and implementation of civil UK space policy and space science research.
The optics of this move can be easily seen and inaccurately spun as a negative in cancelling the UK space programme.
No actual space projects are being cancelled.
The UK government has clearly recognised this, stressing that UKSA will retain a distinctive and recognisable branding in its new role, which has been effective at home and abroad in space science, industry promotion, and facilitating high-profile projects.
The second chronic problem that pre-dates UKSA – and will continue regardless of the musical chairs in Whitehall – is the lack of a coherent, joined-up national UK space programme with the funding to match.
UKSA could never resolve these problems.
For example, the UK government has long pursued a policy of encouraging small satellite launch companies, yet has never allocated the funds necessary to deliver a tangible capability within any reasonable schedule, nor has it created a national UK satellite programme (civil or military) tailored to a high latitude launch profile, which could in turn create concrete demand for such a launcher.
After 15 years of drift, UK launch has gone from being ahead of the curve in Europe (with UK-based companies such as Skyrora and Orbex) to falling behind France, Sweden, or Spain as possibly the first new European small satellite launch providers.
This is a basic lesson in space programme design that seems lost on generations of British policymakers, but one that established satellite launching countries have taken to heart.
Modestly sized space powers have focused on crucial long-term national capability programmes and stumped up the cash for them, such as France’s Spot or India’s Insat programme.
Such priorities are not evident in the UK across the civil and military space sectors.
As I explained to the UK House of Lords Select Committee’s UK Engagement with Space inquiry earlier this year, British space policy spreads out too little money in too many directions on small research projects rather than bold national infrastructural space programmes.
The government must also consider the security and military dimensions of space, which cannot exclude UKSA or the civil, industrial and research dimensions as they in turn provide the capability and know how to build British space systems.
The Boris Johnson government formed the National Space Council to drive and coordinate these partnerships, yet it was abolished by the Truss government and reinstated during the Sunak government.
There have been no announcements from the Starmer government yet on any meetings of the council.
This bureaucratic chaos has not helped efforts to cohere a strategic direction in space.
While the Ministry of Defence claims it wishes to invest in all manner of new space capabilities in the 2025 Strategic Defence Review , it cannot do so without a large injection of new funding, far beyond the billions already allocated for the military satellite Skynet 6 and defence satellite system ISTARI.
More than funding, a clear decision on a specific capability is needed, rather than doing a little bit of everything.
Developing one kind of new satellite constellation, such as radar imagery for military operational needs – numbering in dozens of new satellites – would be the biggest undertaking for the MoD in space since the Skynet satellite communications system.
Doing the same for other capabilities at the same time, such as optical imagery, signals intelligence, or laser communications relays, would be as big a challenge again, and perhaps too much to take on at the same time.
For space policy wonks, academic researchers and the space industry, this rearrangement will not change much in the short term – for good and bad.
UKSA was never fully independent to begin with, so the changes are likely to be more esoteric, subtle and bureaucratic.
That would require courageous policy decisions at the top of government to deliver a coherent, focused, joined-up and fully funded UK civil and defence space programmes.
This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license.
Read the original article .
More about Dr Bleddyn Bowen .
Our School of Government and International Affairs is ranked 7th in the UK in the Complete University Guide 2025.
Visit our Government and International Affairs webpages for more information on our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
Bleddyn is also a member of the Durham University Space Research Centre.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/research/current/thought-leadership/2025/08/enslaved-africans-an-uprising-and-an-ancient-farming-system-in-iraq:
Written accounts tell the story of the Zanj rebellion – a slave revolt that took place in the late 9th century in southern Iraq.
Some of the rebels were enslaved Africans working in various sectors of the local economy.
Here Honorary Fellow in Archaeology, Peter Brown sheds new light on the timelines.
Thousands of ridges and canals still stand today across a floodplain in southern Iraq.
They’ve long been believed to be the remains of a massive agricultural system built by these enslaved people.
Creating them, and farming here, could have been what drove the rebellion that’s often thought to have led to the rapid decline of the historic city of Basra and the local economy.
For the first time, our archaeological study offers a firmer timeline for when farming occurred across this landscape.
This also allows an insight into how the Zanj rebellion affected the region.
We dated four of the 7,000 abandoned ridge features which cover a large swathe of the Shatt al-Arab floodplain, attesting to a period of agricultural expansion.
Our study finds that this agricultural system was in use for far longer than was previously assumed, calling into question the impact of the rebellion on farming and the local economy.
Our findings enhance our knowledge of the landscape history of southern Iraq and draw attention to the historical significance of landscape features which have often been overlooked.
Abandoned and eroding earthworks litter the floodplain of the Shatt al-Arab – the river forming at the confluence of the Tigris and Euphrates.
This flows through southern Iraq out into the Gulf and the Indian Ocean.
Most noticeably, groups of massive, raised, linear ridge features, some of which extend for over a kilometre, are arranged in regular formations.
Among these features, the remains of dried-up canals and smaller, adjoining, secondary water channels can be traced.
Today, agriculture in the floodplain is restricted to the band roughly within 5km of the river.
But the abandoned features relate to farming in the past across a much larger area.
While we don’t know exactly what was grown, cereals like barley or wheat, dates or sugarcane are the most likely crops.
Accounts from travellers who visited the area, as well as historical maps, indicate that the modern agricultural pattern has existed, essentially unchanged, at least since the 17th century.
So, the features we see in the landscape today must have been constructed, in use, and abandoned in an earlier period.
New scientific evidence for the dating of these features helps us to understand when this occurred and the historical circumstances around this phase of agricultural expansion.
In 2022, we excavated small trenches into the top of four of the ridges.
This allowed us to extract soil samples from their cores.
Using a method called optically stimulated luminescence dating, individual grains of soil could be analysed.
This allows the length of time since these grains were exposed to sunlight to be calculated.
As our samples came from inside the ridge features, where they would have been permanently hidden from the sun, these samples should give the date when the soil was originally deposited.
Until now, no significant fieldwork had been carried out to investigate these features.
However, these traces of pre-modern farming have often been linked with one particular historical episode – but without concrete evidence.
Documents from the early Islamic period (from about the mid 7th to mid 13th century) provide a detailed account of a slave revolt in southern Iraq during the late 9th century, between 869 and 883.
The Zanj Rebellion saw large groups of slaves rebel against the forces of the Abbasid Caliphate – which ruled most of the Islamic world.
The rebellion included violent episodes, including the sacking of the nearby city of Basra and clashes with the forces of the caliph sent to suppress the revolt.
This threw southern Iraq into turmoil.
The identity of the Zanj people involved in the uprising has been a focus for debate.
“Zanj” is an Arabic term used throughout the medieval period to refer to the Swahili coast of east Africa, though it was also used to refer to Africa more generally.
As a result, the Zanj have typically been regarded collectively as enslaved people transported to southern Iraq from east Africa.
While the evidence for slaving traffic between Africa and Iraq during the early Islamic period is uncontroversial, the scale of the trade has been questioned.
Based on genetic evidence, and the logistics of shipping large numbers to the Gulf, it has been argued that the majority of African slaves at the time of the revolt came from west and western central Africa via Saharan trade routes, rather than coastal east Africa.
Importantly, the people involved in the revolt were not all African slaves – some seem to have been local farmers – so the rebels were a mixed group.
We know little about what the group known as the Zanj were doing before the 869 revolt.
Their presence in Iraq is documented for centuries beforehand – smaller scale rebellions occurred in the late 7th century but only a few details are available about the lives of the slaves before the 9th century rebellion.
Some were involved in tasks like transporting flour.
Others were dispersed in groups of 50-500 in work camps across the floodplain.
Details relating to life within these camps are unavailable yet the written sources suggest the slaves were treated poorly by the “agents” who oversaw them.
Other than for agriculture, it’s difficult to explain why such camps would have existed across this zone.
What we know about the Zanj fits closely with the scale of the landscape features visible today.
Large numbers of labourers would have been needed, both to transport the soil forming the raised ridges and to farm the areas in between.
This must have been enormously difficult work.
It’s often been assumed that the Zanj rebellion caused a significant decline in the region’s economy, including activities like farming.
Our results, however, indicate that the earthworks date to the period after the rebellion.
While some samples date to the period immediately after the rebellion, others gave dates from a century or two later, in the 11th, 12th or 13th centuries.
Rather than features created in one go, these traces in the landscape were likely added to over a longer period – perhaps as part of the annual farming cycle.
This means the samples we dated likely do not relate to the earliest farming activity but provide a “snapshot” of ongoing work.
Since some of the features date to shortly after the rebellion, the slaves discussed in the written sources were likely involved in creating these ridge features.
However, farming across this landscape certainly continued for a significant period after the revolt’s conclusion.
Be it climatic change, the impact of a pandemic, or wider economic and political shifts, exactly why such a large area of farmland was later abandoned remains an unanswered question.
One which requires further research to answer.
But, by more definitively linking these landscape features to their historical context, we are one step closer to understanding social and economic processes in southern Iraq during the medieval period.
Archaeology adds another dimension to what we know about a historical event like the Zanj rebellion.
Image caption: In southern Iraq, a massive agricultural system was likely built by enslaved Africans who ended up staging a revolt.
Courtesy the authors/Cambridge University Press

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/research/current/thought-leadership/2025/08/from-army-to-academia-history-phd-student-becomes-bbc-new-generation-thinker-:
PhD student and former soldier Ashleigh Percival-Borley is exploring the untold stories of World War II's Special Operations Executive.
She has recently been announced as a BBC New Generation Thinker for 2025.
We caught up with Ashleigh to find out more about this, her research and how being a military veteran informs her work.
It's a fantastic initiative giving early career researchers the support and platform of an international broadcaster.
We get media training, networking opportunities, and the chance to communicate our research to an international audience.
It's Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) funded, and the selection process was daunting.
I have my dad to thank for this really – he spotted the call for applicants and sent me the information.
I had to write pitches about my research, suggest radio programmes, and also pitch something completely unrelated to my work.
It is very different from the day-to-day life in academia!
Shortlisted applicants attended a workshop at AHRC headquarters in London with BBC producers.
We listened to podcasts and radio shows, delivered pitches (with ruthless feedback!), and had debates.
It was quite stressful but, being ex-Army I’m used to dealing with stressful situations!
A few days later, I received an email offering me one of only six places on the scheme – I was elated.
Each New Generation Thinker is attached to a particular BBC Radio 4 programme – mine is the ‘Free Thinking' programme.
Now I'm essentially a 'researcher in residence' with them and an expert they can call upon for discussions.
I have already been part of a programme entitled ‘Peace’.
It coincided with the anniversary of VE day in May and explored what peace has meant since 1945.
I really enjoyed it - being able to share my research and insights with a wide audience is a joy.
I have also had some great media training at the British Academy.
I‘m exploring how wartime espionage and the Special Operations Executive (SOE) has been remembered, represented and mythologised.
As part of this I'm analysing recordings (or oral histories) of SOE operatives discussing their wartime service, held in the Imperial War Museum sound archives.
Specifically, how these veterans talk about and construct wartime memories.
There is an enduring cultural fascination around the work of the SOE operatives.
But, these weren't James Bond-style spies - they were operatives with highly complex and varied roles.
They were ordinary people having extraordinary things happen due to war.
To me, their ordinariness makes them even more brave, and this is what I want to explore and champion.
I am looking at a wide range of SOE roles – everything from secretaries and cryptologists to field agents.
I want to fully understand the identity and experience of those working in the SOE.
I grew up in a forces family and have always been fascinated with military history.
About 10 years ago, while still in the Army, I caught the 1950s film ‘Odette’ – a true story about Odette Sansom, a French SOE agent living in the UK who was captured in occupied France in 1944.
I researched her connection to SOE and was hooked.
Just before I left the Army in 2021, I did a master's degree on women in F Section (or the ‘French Section’) which was the department in the SOE responsible for operations in France.
I loved it, and this marked the start of a whole new direction since leaving the forces.
Academia is the only place post-military service where I feel my experience truly adds value.
As a 13-year veteran who served in combat, I understand what it feels like to be in war - to be relied upon, shot at, and scared.
When I am listening to the oral histories for SOE operatives, I can hear bravery and fear in them where others might not.
I understand the moral difficulty of seeing someone hurt in wartime.
This gives me a unique lens to bridge the gap between spoken word and transcript.
We're at the edge of living memory of WWII, and I want to explore and tell these stories for the next generation.
I would love to be a public historian – sharing the amazing stories of our military history with the world.
My work in academia and the BBC New Generation Thinkers scheme is opening amazing new doors.
I've signed with a literary agent, given talks at NATO, and appeared on BBC Radio 4 - things that once seemed unattainable to a young combat medic on her first tour of Afghanistan!
Through my work I want to not only illuminate more of our military history but also engage with policy and help to diversify our armed forces.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/07/botanic-garden-rhs-competition:
Now in its fifth year, this annual competition aims to uncover the nation’s favourite RHS Partner Garden from across the country and the world.
Open to all garden lovers and visitors to vote, this year’s competition theme is joy and the Botanic Garden is the perfect place to be joyful.
Voting is open until Monday 29 September.
One winner will be announced in each region, with an overall UK winner announced in December.
The winning garden will receive a special plaque to display and a professional photoshoot.
The Botanic Garden is one of 231 gardens in the RHS Partner Gardens scheme.
RHS Members can visit free of charge at selected times of the year.
Beyond the UK, RHS Partner Gardens can be found in eight countries, including Barbados, Japan and South Africa.
The Botanic Garden allows visitors to experience different garden environments from around the world, from native woodland to tropical plants and desert cactus, as well as exotic animals and orchids in the Garden’s Glasshouse.
The Botanic Garden offers programme of fun, family-friendly events and activities for visitors of all ages to enjoy over the summer.
See classic MG Cars on display on Sunday 3 August, or come along to meet ‘Crazy Creatures’ when they visit the Garden on Thursday 14 August.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/green-gown-awards-2025:
Two of our initiatives have been recognised as finalists in the 2025 Green Gown Awards for UK and Ireland, building on our continued commitment to sustainability.
This shortlisting recognises the ways we are using our efforts to protect and enhance nature on our campus to benefit others.
It builds on the ambitious work that we have already undertaken through our Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan.
This is the third time that work relating to our biodiversity has been recognised in the Green Gown Awards.
We won the national ‘Nature Positive’ category in 2023, and were highly commended in the 2024 International Green Gown Awards.
Our Biodiversity initiatives have included introducing mini wetlands, attracting rare birds such as buzzards to breed in Durham City for the first time in over two centuries, embedding biodiversity study into our taught modules at undergraduate and postgraduate levels, and offering internships working on our estate, as well as projects such as the reintroduction of the most endangered native tree in Britain, the Black Poplar.
This entry focuses on some of the great work which takes place on our estate to support wider communities to engage with these initiatives and more.
It highlights how we offer outreach, including school visits to our Botanic Gardens, wellbeing and learning opportunities on our estate to vulnerable children via North East England charity, Nepacs, leading nature walks open to the public, and working with local partners such as Durham Wildlife Trust, the National Trust and the Wear Rivers Trust.
It also shines a light on other projects we are undertaking.
Such as our contribution to the Durham City Green Corridor, and our work co-leading the North East’s iNaturalist City Nature Challenge this year, where we offered walks and bioblitzes on citizen science walks this spring.
Durham’s Greenspace Movement was created in 2010 and remains at the heart of our sustainability agenda.
It brings together students, staff, external partners and the wider community to work on themes including Net Zero, Biodiversity, Waste, and Travel to support meeting our shared sustainability ambitions.
This includes initiatives like MyGreenspace App for staff and student engagement, regular Greenspace Nature Walks, the annual Greenspace Festival, and the introduction this year of a Greenspace Book Club open to all staff and students.
The Movement encourages small acts which make a big difference collectively towards our target of achieving Net Zero by 2035.
As well as leading initiatives, Greenspace actively partners with and supports those designed and championed by our community.
Our staff and students play key roles as Greenspace Student Engagement Group (GSEG) representatives, and staff Environment Champions.
Not to mention our environmental sustainability student societies, and our many working / steering groups.
While some student engagement projects are well established, such as Green Move Out (currently in its 22nd year), innovative student-led projects come forward year-on-year.
This year’s have included redesigning several college grounds for biodiversity, and founding a joint formal wear wardrobe collective between colleges.
Combining top-down and bottom-up approaches through campaigns, events, volunteering, our Greenspace calendar, policy work, projects, and our MyGreenspace app, our presence on campus has grown, as have Greenspace engagement rates.
This is the third time the Greenspace Movement becomes a finalist in the Green Gown Awards, demonstrating significant commitment to embedding sustainability at every level in the University.
Bioblitz event at the Botanic Garden Fun Day.
Our consistent performance in the Green Gown Awards goes hand-in-hand with our ranking as a sustainability leader.
We placed 22nd globally in the QS World University Rankings for Sustainability 2026, and 34th in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025.
We hold multiple sustainability awards and accreditations, including Platinum EcoCampus.
Recent initiatives and research we are involved in range from reaching 1MW solar capacity from panels installed on over 30 buildings on our campus, to collaborating on a pioneering project to create new Green Corridors in the North East of England.
The Green Gown Awards recognise Higher and Further Education Institutions for their dedication to sustainability.
They are a fantastic opportunity to recognise the projects, initiatives, and individuals that contribute positively to their institutions and communities while aligning with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
The awards ceremony will be held on Thursday 6 November at the Library of Birmingham.
We’re proud of our two finalist initiatives, regardless of the outcome of the awards, and will continue to develop them alongside other sustainability initiatives over the coming years.
Watch how we are making Durham one of the most environmentally sustainable universities in the UK:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/latest-news/2025/08/street-museum-heritage-project-expands-thanks-to-new-funding-:
A heritage project that connects local communities with our world-class museum collections is expanding thanks to funding from the Esmée Fairbairn Communities & Collections Fund.
Building on the award-winning Street Museum pilot, Street Museum 2 will see our museums and engagement teams work with three County Durham community centres to co-curate exhibitions shaped by local people.
Users of the community centres will be invited to choose artefacts from our 100,000-item collection across our Oriental, Archaeology and Durham Castle museums.
The chosen items will then be 3D printed to create high-quality replicas.
Project participants will also be invited to share their own personal objects - too precious to leave their possession - for 3D scanning and printing.
These will be combined with the replicas from our collection to create a special exhibition unique to each community centre, connecting their local and personal heritage with global history.
Street Museum 2 will also involve hands-on workshops, history days and museum visits for residents in the community centre locales which are recognised as being under-served.
The new funding will enable Street Museum 2 to run for the next 18-months.
Throughout that time, the initiative aims to break down cultural barriers, bring people together, and give communities a real sense of shared ownership over their heritage.
It builds on five years of successful collaboration through the original Street Museum project which connected the former East Durham mining village of Blackhall with our heritage collections.
The three County Durham community centres taking part in Street Museum 2 are Teesdale Community Resource Hub, Auckland Youth and Community Centre and Blackhall Community Centre.
Our Senior Manager for Cultural Engagement, Ged Matthews, is delighted that Street Museum 2 has received backing from the Esmée Fairbairn Communities & Collections Fund - one of the UK’s most sought-after cultural funding programmes.
He said: “We’re thrilled to be able to continue working with three of our amazing community centre partners, spread across County Durham.
“Street Museum is a great platform to bring together different types of expertise and knowledge; from heritage, collections, curation, technology, engagement, communication.
“Together, we should be able to blow the minds of communities living in Blackhall, Bishop Auckland and Teesdale!”

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/events/2025/09/university-college-chapel-choir-concert:
22 September 2025 - 22 September 2025
7:00PM - 9:00PM
St Bartholomew the Great,
Cloth Fair,
London,
EC1A 7JQ
Free
University College and University College Chapel Choir warmly invite you to a concert in memory of a formidable University College alumnus, David Knowles.
choir
The programme will feature a selection of music by Beech, Bairstow, Purcell and Rowath, from the Chapel Choir’s recent CD recording efforts, under the direction of our Director of Music, Barney Howard.
This occasion offers an opportunity for our supporters, alumni and friends to gather in the historic setting of St Bartholomew’s Church and share in an evening of musical reflection and celebration.
The concert will be followed by a drinks reception in the Church.
This is a free event, but as we have a limited number of spaces available, pre-booking is essential .
Date: Monday 22 September Time: 7 - 9pm Location: St Bartholomew the Great, Cloth Fair, London, EC1A 7JQ Dress code: Since the concert will be held in a church, we encourage guests to dress in a way that's appropriate for the venue - smart casual or modest clothing is appreciated.
We look forward to seeing you there!
Tickets are free but we have limited spaces available so please pre-book

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/events/2025/the-collegiate-way-conference-2025:
2 December 2025 - 5 December 2025
12:00AM - 11:59PM
Durham City, UK.
See description for pricing
‘The Collegiate Way – Living and Learning for the Future’ 
returns to Durham 2-5 Dec 2025 – book now
Together with presentations and panel discussions, there will be opportunities to meet college students and staff in the delegate's affiliated college and to experience college activities.
2 Dec – arrivals, registration, evening networking and welcome dinner
3-5 Dec – full conference days with evening events, ending with Gala dinner on 5 Dec in the medieval Great Hall at University College in Durham Castle
Opening keynote address (3 Dec): Professor David Wilkinson – astrophysicist, theologian and Principal of St John’s College, Durham 2006-2023
The programme will also include the opportunity to meet students and staff in the delegate’s affiliated college and to attend a Formal college dinner.
Other activities include the opportunity to experience the colleges’ sporting, volunteering and performing arts activities.
We are currently working on the first draft of the programme and further abstract submissions are welcomed.
Submission for proposals for contributions to the conference programme is now closed.
Contributions in the form of posters, presentations, panel discussions etc are welcome.
Themes may include any topic relevant to the collegiate way, including the value of collegiate systems in 21st century, supporting wider student development, student support and welfare, connecting and engaging alumni, freedom of speech and learning to disagree well, developing leaders and team players, meeting challenges in a fast-changing world, facilitating broad scholarship and reflective, independent thinking, developing good citizens, and more beyond.
Some suggested main themes are outline on the submission site, but all suggestions are very welcome.
Full draft programme to be published:  August 2025
Registration now open .
Registration prices include all midday and evening meals including the Gala dinner (except for students) in Great Hall, University College, Durham Castle on the final evening
Full Conference Early Bird (up to 30 Sept)  £390
Full Conference Late Bird (up to 17 Nov)  £450
Full Conference student rate excluding Gala Dinner (up to 17 Nov)  £200
Day rate for Wednesday 3 Dec or Thursday 4 Dec   £80
Day rate excluding Gala Dinner for Friday 5 Dec  £70
Gala Dinner optional extra for students, Friday day rate delegates  £45
and non-registered guests
An allocation of bedrooms have been held at the Radisson Blu hotel, Durham, at an agreed rate of £139 per night, including breakfast.
For further information and how to book: Hotel accommodation
For travel to Durham, please see information on the University website:
Visit Us – Travel to Durham University
The two local airports (Newcastle and Teesside) have internal flights to major UK airports and international flights to many destinations including Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam.
Train services also link Durham to London, Edinburgh and Manchester.
Event booking and abstract submissions
For any queries, please contact: cwi25@durham.ac.uk
For more information on Collegiate Way International and past CWI conferences, please visit the Collegiate Way International website .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/whats-on/events-calendar/2025/06/beasts-and-legends-exhibition:
14 June 2025 - 2 November 2025
10:00AM - 5:00PM
Palace Green Library, Palace Green, Durham, DH1 3RN
Free Entry
Beasts and Legends: Adventures Through North East Folklore is a free exhibition which explores the development of storytelling throughout Historic County Durham.
This family friendly exhibition features a selection of artefacts from across the Durham University collections to help tell the stories of local folktales.
For those both familiar or new to the stories of the beasts and legends on display, the exhibition poses the opportunity for visitors, especially younger people, to connect with folktales through the displays.
The exhibition also features objects on loan from Durham Cathedral, in addition to artworks created by collaborative work with local artist Ruth Flowers.
Visitors are also invited to join the selection of public activities, including story-telling workshops for younger visitors, and an afternoon lecture series to talk about themes of the exhibition in more detail.
This exhibition, including the events and resources on this webpage, has been created by MA Museum and Artefact Studies students, under the Archaeology Department, Durham University.
The exhibition is showing from 14th June – 2nd November 2025 at Palace Green Library.
Free entry

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/whats-on/events-calendar/2025/09/family-activities-mandala-making:
6 September 2025 - 6 September 2025
1:00PM - 3:00PM
Oriental Museum
Paint your own colourful Indian-style mandala onto fabric.
Child colouring in mandala pattern
Explore, learn and create with our programme of FREE family events.
Taking inspiration from objects on display across the Oriental Museum's galleries, families can get creative all season long.
Activities are generally suitable for families with children aged 5 - 11 years.
All children must be accompanied by an adult.
All activities are drop, no need to book, unless otherwise stated.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/events:
You are viewing all events Reset
Our Events will give you the opportunity to learn more about what Durham Business School has to offer for postgraduate study.
01 September 2024 - 31 December 2025
9:00 AM - 5:00 PM
Durham Business School
Tours have audio descriptions, images and videos as well as lots of information and statistics.
01 September 2024 - 31 August 2025
9:00 AM - 4:00 PM
Led by Helen Fenwick and Patrick Zuk
01 January 2025 - 01 January 2026
12:00 PM - 1:00 PM
TBC
The Center for Neurodiversity Studies (CNS) at O.P.
Jindal Global University (India) and the Centre for Neurodiversity & Development at Durham University (UK) cordially invite you to the online Neurodiversity Global Seminar Series 2025.
This year-long monthly, online seminar series aims to facilitate a global interdisciplinary dialogue on neurodiversity by bringing together researchers and practitioners from various cultural contexts.
15 January 2025 - 26 November 2025
1:00 PM - 2:00 PM
Online
The Centre for International Law at the National University of Singapore and the Centre for Sustainable Development Law and Policy Durham University, will be co-hosting a two-day conference on 28-29 August 2025 on the theme of ‘Systemic Integration of Climate Change in International Law’.
28 August 2025 - 29 August 2025
Singapore (TBC)
Please note, this webinar will take place at 4:00 - 5:00pm (CDT time).
28 August 2025
4:00 PM - 5:00 PM
20 Year Reunion
29 August 2025 - 31 August 2025
St John‘s College, 3 South Bailey, Durham, DH1 3RJ
A reunion for freshers of 1992 and friends!
A reunion for graduates of 2020 and friends!
Led by Dr Alice Nah
01 September 2025 - 31 July 2028
9:00 AM - 6:00 PM
Join Greenspace on one of our weekly nature walks and get to know our campus and wider estate.
02 September 2025
Palace Green, near Durham Cathedral
Join us online on Tuesday 2 September 6pm - 6.45pm BST for an informal Q&A with the Durham MBA (Online) Programme Director.
6:00 PM - 6:45 PM
Join Durham University Business School, in collaboration with ICAEW, for an engaging half day workshop – a free event exploring how data is transforming the accounting profession.
03 September 2025
9:30 AM - 12:30 PM
In person OR Online
Join Greenspace and the Durham Bat Group for a guided bat walk!
05 September 2025
7:00 PM - 9:00 PM
Collingwood College main reception
The aim of this network is to create new research links across the North of England, through conferences, workshops and other events.
08 September 2025
Room PO005, 48 Old Elvet, Durham DH1 3HN.
We are pleased to announce a joint workshop hosted by Durham and Loughborough law schools dedicated to exploring a research agenda for critical trusts law.
This event will bring together international scholars working in the field, and will offer new perspectives on trusts law that will be of interest to both new and established researchers.
Anne Galbraith Room, Palatine Centre, Durham University
This webinar explores the challenges psychology educators face when teaching about sex and gender.
Weekly walk, 19 August, 12:00 - 13:00, Boldon House
09 September 2025
Boldon House
Join the International Narrative Neurology Network to discuss the question 'What is narrative neurology?' in an online webinar.
2:00 PM - 4:00 PM
© ©2025 Durham University

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/human-resources/job-vacancies:
We find it easy to be proud of everyone who works at Durham.
We offer an inspirational and welcoming place to work, they achieve the outstanding.
We invite you to join us.
A globally outstanding centre of teaching and research excellence, a warm and friendly place to work, a unique and historic setting - Durham is a university like no other.
If you encounter technical difficulties when using the online application form, we prefer you send enquiries by email.
Please send your name along with a brief description of the problem you’re experiencing to e.recruitment@durham.ac.uk .
We will notify you of the status of your application at various points throughout the selection process, via automated emails from our e-recruitment system.
Please check your spam/junk folder periodically to ensure you receive all emails.
The University welcomes applications from disabled people.
We are committed to ensuring fair treatment throughout the recruitment process.
We will make adjustments to support the interview process wherever it is reasonable to do so and, where successful, adjustments will be made to support people within their role.
If you are unable to complete your application via our recruitment system, please get in touch with us at e.recruitment@durham.ac.uk .
We’ve created a flexible package of rewards, benefits and more, along with lots of ways to recognise everyone’s hard work.
We believe that what we offer is just as extraordinary as our working environment - and our people.
We want to be a place where people can be free to be themselves, no matter what their identity or background.
Together, we celebrate difference, value one another and are each responsible for creating an inclusive community that is respectful and fair for all.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/academic:
90% of our research is classed as world-leading or internationally excellent, according to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021.
Our departments offer you the chance to be part of a world top 100 university in a uniquely beautiful and historic location and stimulating environment.
At Durham University Business School, we believe that to succeed in business, you need to get closer to the realities of business.
So that’s what we do.
We connect students and alumni with global companies, and we link businesses with incisive and innovative thinking.
We nurture thoughtful, critical and engaged citizens for a rapidly changing and complex world.
We provide tools for analysis, interpretation and expression, tools to discuss and compare models of human life and flourishing, tools for imagining the future.
Our six departments and one school produce highly-ranked and influential research within and across disciplines, languages, and cultures.
Each offers undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.
The Faculty also provides Philosophy programmes, and one teaching centre, the Centre for Foreign Language Study .
The Faculty of Science is home to a diverse community of staff and students across eight academic Departments.
We are recognised for research impact that directly benefits society.
Our eight departments are responsible for undergraduate and postgraduate teaching, as well as world-leading research that seeks to empower and inspire.
We are also responsible for the broad-ranging undergraduate Natural Sciences Degree Programme , which allows students to study science alongside two or more other subjects.
A diverse community of undergraduates, postgraduates, and academic and research staff, the Faculty of Social Sciences is a world-leading leading centre for education and research in the social sciences.
Our nine departments and schools are engaged in pioneering research and innovative learning.
We are regularly ranked within the world's top 50 for the quality and significance of our research, our students enjoy an unparalleled learning experience, and our graduates are some of the most sought-after by employers.
We are also responsible for an undergraduate Combined Honours in Social Sciences programme.
We also have a number of combined and flexible programmes, where students study subjects from a number of different academic departments, and a Common Awards framework for Theology, Ministry and Mission.
Durham University's Foundation Programme has been delivering high-quality academic preparation for undergraduate study at Durham University since 1992.
The Foundation Programme supports students to develop the skills and subject knowledge required for successful study at degree level.
Achieving a minimum of 50% in all modules permits progression to the first year of your degree, without further action or application.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/ceremonies:
Your matriculation and congregation ceremonies are exciting celebrations to mark the milestones of your time at Durham.
We're here to help you celebrate and ensure these events run as smoothly as possible.
Please visit our internal webpages for further information.
Here you can find everything you need to know about Summer Congregation so you can celebrate your success alongside your loved ones.
Explore our Winter Congregation information pages and get ready to celebrate this milestone together.
Durham University Ceremonies Unit
Academic Registrar's Office
Student and Academic Services Directorate Durham University Palatine Centre Stockton Road Durham DH1 3LE
Email: congregation@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/notices:
Please visit this page regularly for the latest updates on important and current topics.
Updates on important and current topics:
Contact our Communications team with any external enquiries.
The Palatine Centre Durham DH1 3LE Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 8623

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/notices/freedom-of-speech:
It is a fundamental policy of the University, as an academic institution, that in its activities there should be freedom of speech within the law.
Our Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech is robust and sets out clear expectations and processes for activities affiliated to, funded by, or branded as Durham University.
To our knowledge, in recent years, we are not aware of a single occasion where a speaker has not been invited to speak at the University due to controversial views.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/covid-19:
We have procedures in place to assess ventilation levels in internal spaces on campus.
We have installed Air Quality Monitors (AQM) in rooms with natural ventilation to enable colleagues to monitor CO2 levels to provide suitable air quality and thermal comfort as far as is possible.
Portable AQMs have also been made available.
I f the monitor is amber, increase the ventilation (such as opening windows) and if it is red, temporarily exit the room.
We wash our hands with soap and water or use hand sanitiser regularly throughout the day.
Hand sanitisation stations are available on campus for staff, students and visitors.
Staff and students are encouraged to make sure they are up to date with their Covid-19 vaccinations.
If we are feeling unwell, we will stay at home and try to avoid contact with people.
The University welcomes the use of face coverings in shared indoor spaces on campus.
Sources for more information regarding Covid-19.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/web-accessibility:
Durham University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This accessibility statement applies to the Durham University website at durham.ac.uk.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reason(s):
(i) Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations
WCAG 1.4.10 Reflow https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/reflow.html
Reflow or ‘responsive web design’ helps visually impaired users who may need to enlarge text on a webpage and read it in a single column without scrolling in more than one direction.
It also helps users who are viewing the page on a mobile device.
All content and functions must still be fully available in the adjusted size.
Issue: Our job search page is currently non-compliant.
https://durham.taleo.net/careersection/du_ext/jobsearch.ftl?lang=en&portal=10105010224
Estimated to be resolved by: November 2025
WCAG 2.2.2 Pause, stop, hide https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/pause-stop-hide.html
Content that moves, flashes or updates automatically can be a severe distraction, making it difficult to use an app or web page.
Moving, flashing or scrolling information that starts automatically and lasts more than 5 seconds, must have a way to pause, stop or hide it.
Issue: The Discover Uni (Unistats) widget, found on all undergraduate course pages is currently non-compliant.
WCAG 2.4.4 Link purpose (in context)
https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/link-purpose-in-context.html
The purpose of each link must be clear from the link text alone or from its immediate context.
Users may tab through a set of links on a page, or may view a list of links using assistive technology.
Clear link text makes navigation easier.
Issue: Our course search results pages have links with generic text ('view course') Estimated to be resolved by: November 2025
WCAG 4.1.2 Name, role, value https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/name-role-value.html
Assistive technologies gather information about interactive elements and components from the code and share it with users.
This means they need to be able to identify the name and function of components, set states, properties and values, and notify users of changes to these.
ARIA attributes may be used on custom components to add this information.
ARIA attributes should be used correctly as errors can make accessibility worse.
Issue: Our chatbot widget (Holly) found on some of our web pages is currently non-compliant.
(ii) The content is not within the scope of the accessibility regulations
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
This statement was prepared on 2 February 2024 after an audit was carried out by the Government Digital Service, Accessibility Monitoring Team.
Last Updated: 4 August 2025
Lucian Hudson, Director of Advancement, Marketing and Communications
lucian.j.hudson@durham.ac.uk
Switchboard: +44 (0)191 334 2000
https://www.durham.ac.uk/about-us/how-to-contact-us/
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).
https://www.equalityadvisoryservice.com/

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/safeguarding:
As members of the Durham University community, we have a responsibility to safeguard the wellbeing of vulnerable adults, as well as children.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/research/facilities-and-services/facilities-and-equipment:
Our equipment and facilities are open to external organisations and include equipment in:
In some cases, you can access our facilities directly, or you can use the services of our highly skilled technicians to analyse samples for you.
The JISC Equipment Data Service holds information about research equipment at Durham over the UKRI's Terms and Conditions of grant value threshold of £138,000.
Some equipment is available to share with external users, via the JISC Equipment Data Service .
Durham University is proud to be a signatory of the Technician Commitment which recognises the invaluable role our technicians play in delivering high-quality analytical services.
If you are not sure what technique you require, email analytical.services@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/technician-commitment:
The Technician Commitment is a sector-wide, collaborative initiative led by the Science Council and supported by the Gatsby Charitable Foundation’s Technicians Make It Happen campaign.
Durham University is proud to be a signatory of the Technician Commitment.
Our technicians staff have been recognised as making outstanding contributions to the University at our annual Professional Services awards
In line with this, we aim to enhance skills and career development for technical staff, recognising their integral and invaluable role in the continued successful delivery of high-quality teaching and research on the global stage.
2022 saw the return of Durham University's diverse and growing technical workforce coming together, firmly establishing our conference as an annual event and working together to celebrate the Technicians Commitment.
All of the videos and photographs used on our Technician Commitment website are thanks to Durham University’s talented Multimedia technicians: Steven Berry, Victoria Greener, Greg Robson from the Physics Department, and Michele Allan from the Geography Department.
Have a question about the Technician Commitment or our work as technicians?
Contact us here.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/computing-information-services/support:
The IT Service Desk is here to help you get the most out of our IT services during your time at Durham University.
It is your first point of contact to raise IT requests, report IT issues and get answers to queries about University-provided IT facilities and services.
For more information, please see our Services and FAQ’s section.
There are different ways to get in touch with the IT Service Desk for assistance:
IT Service Desk Live Chat
Simply click on the "Open Live Chat" button on this page to start a live chat with one of our expert advisers online.
This is available from Monday to Friday, between 8am - 6pm.
Self Service Portal
If you already have Durham University login details, you can report a problem and view the progress of your existing calls that are under your name through the Self-Service Portal .
Book an Appointment
The IT Service Desk offer several appointments, where you can speak to a member of the team in person and virtually:
Phone

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/governance/governance-documentation/charitable-status:
The University is an educational charitable and chartered corporation, exempt from registration with the Charity Commission under the terms of the Charities Act 2011.
The University’s Royal Charter number is RC000650.
The University is registered as a Higher Education provider with the Office for Students.
The OfS supervises universities as principal regulator and has a duty to promote universities' compliance with charity legislation.
The University of Durham has identified 18 charities which represent paragraph 28 charities under Schedule 3 of the Charities Act 2011.
Consolidated information about paragraph 28 charities is available in the Financial Statements of the University .
View the University's Modern Slavery Statement
Please note that the text of the Royal Charter below is intended for information only.
For any legal reference to the text you should refer to the hardcopy available from the University Archives.
Whereas by an Act passed in the thirty-first year of the Reign of our Royal Predecessor, His Majesty King Henry the Eighth, His Majesty was empowered to establish more Bishopries and Collegial and Cathedral Churches, to the intent, among other purposes, that thereby God’s Word might be better set forth, children brought up in learning, clerks nourished in the Universities, and readers of Greek, Hebrew, and Latin might have good stipend: and His Majesty was also empowered to make Statutes for the Institutions by Letters Patent, under His Great Seal.
And whereas His said Majesty, King Henry the Eighth, by Letters Patent, under the Great Seal, dated the twelfth day of May, in the year of our Lord Christ one thousand five hundred and forty-one, after mentioning, among other inducements, “ut bonorum morum disciplina observetur, juventus in literis liberalibus instituatur, et cetera omnis generis pietatis official illinic exuberantia in omnia vicena loca longe lateque demanent, ad Dei omnipotentis gloriam, et ad subditorum nostrorum cominunem utilatatem, felicitremque”, founded a Cathedral Church at Durham, to consist of one Dean and twelve Prebendaries, and other Ministers:  and His said Majesty ordained that the said Dean and twelve Prebendaries should be one Body Corporate, and have perpetual succession under the name of “The Dean and Chapter of the Cathedral church of Durham, of Christ, and of the Blessed Mary the Virgin” and that they should be governed by certain Statutes to be afterwards given to them.
And whereas Statutes were afterwards given to the said Cathedral Church one of which is entitled “De pueris grammaticalibus et eorum informatoribus”, by which, after the preface following,  “Ut pietas et bonae literae perpetuo in dicta ecclesia suppullulescant, erescant, floreant, et suo tempore in gloriam Dei et Reipublicae commodum et ornamentum fructificent,”  It is ordained that eighteen poor boys, of good natural parts, should be for ever maintained in the said Church of Durham, but who should not be admitted before they could read, write and understand the rudiments of grammar.
And also that a Master should be chosen, learned in Latin and Greek, of good reputation, sound faith, and pious life, and skilful in the art of teaching, “qui tam octodeeim illos Ecclesiae predicate pueros, quam alios quoscenque grammaticam discendi gratia ad scholam nostrum confluentes, pietate excolat, et bonis literis exornet:”  And also that the Masters of the School should, in teaching, observe such rules, and use such authors and order of teaching, as the said Dean and Chapter, with the consent of the Bishop, should prescribe.
And whereas an Act of Parliament was, on the application of the Dean and Chapter of Durham, passed in the Third Year of our Reign, intituled “An Act to enable the Dean and Chapter of Durham to appropriate part of the property of their Church to the establishment of a University in connection therewith, for the Advancement of Learning,” whereby, after reciting that the Dean and Chapter of Durham were desirous of establishing, in connection with the said Cathedral Church, A University for the advancement of learning, to be under the government of the said Dean and Chapter of Durham, for the time being, subject to the jurisdiction of the Lord Bishop of Durham, for the time being, as Visitor thereof;  And also reciting that the said Dean and Chapter were desirous that a specific portion of the property of the said Cathedral Church should be appropriated and set apart for the purposes of such University, It was enacted that from and after the passing of the said Act, the lands, tenements, and hereditaments therein mentioned or referred to should be, and the same were, thereby vested in the said Dean and Chapter of Durham, and their successors for ever, In trust to apply the rents thereof, and the fines and other profits and proceeds arising therefrom, for the establishment and maintenance of a University for the advancement of learning, in connection with the said Cathedral Church;  such University to consist of such Warden or Principal, of such Professors and Readers, in such branches of learning and sciences, of such Tutors, Students, and other officers and persons, and generally to be established, and instituted, and continued, according to such scheme and regulations as the said Dean and Chapter of Durham, for the time being, should from time to time, by writing under their common seal, with the consent of the Lord Bishop of Durham, for the time being, order and prescribe:  And it was further enacted that the government of the said University, and the order and discipline to be observed therein, according to the scheme and regulations which the said Dean and Chapter of Durham, for the time being, with such consent as aforesaid, were there in before empowered to order and prescribe, should be, and the same were, thereby vested in the said Dean and Chapter of Durham, for the time being, and that the said University should be subject to, and under the jurisdiction of, the Lord Bishop of Durham, for the time being, as visitor thereof.
And whereas the Dean and Chapter of Durham made or passed an Act of Chapter, in writing under their Common Seal, bearing date on or about the fourth day of April, one thousand eight hundred and thirty four, in the words following, that is to say, “It was agreed that in pursuance of an Act of the second year of the reign of his present Majesty, and by and with the consent of the Bishop of Durham, the Academical Institution, or College, or University, established by Act of Chapter, of the twenty-eighth day of September, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one, be constituted a University in connection with the Cathedral Church of Durham, and under the direction and control of the Dean and Chapter of Durham, as the governors thereof, the Bishop of Durham being the Visitor thereof, and a consenting party to all Acts of the Dean and Chapter, relating to the same University; and that the University of Durham, being under the authority of the Lord Bishop of Durham, as the Visitor thereof and a consenting party to all Acts of the Dean and Chapter of Durham relating to the same and of the Dean and Chapter of Durham as Governors thereof, do consist of a Warden or Principal, a Professor Divinity and Ecclesiastical History, a Professor of Greek and classical Literature, a Professor of Mathematics, Two Censors or Proctors, and of such Readers and Teachers, the same being appointed by the Bishop of Durham and the Dean and Chapter of Durham, and of such Graduates in the several Faculties, and of such Scholars and others, as shall be, from time to time, incorporated by the said University.
Further it was agreed that the Warden, the Professor of Divinity and Ecclesiastical History, and the Professor of Greek and Classical Literature, shall be nominated and appointed, as was settled in the first scheme of the University by the Bishop of Durham, under his seal;  and that the Professor of Mathematics, and the other officers of the University, unless it shall be otherwise provided, shall be nominated by the Dean and Chapter under their seal.
And whereas it hath been represented to us that pursuant to the last recited Act of Chapter of the said Dean and Chapter of Durham, the Venerable Charles Thorp, Doctor of Divinity, now Archdeacon of Durham was appointed Warden of the said University of Durham;  the Reverend Henry Jenkyns, Master of Arts, Professor of Greek and Classical Literature;  the Reverend Temple Chevallier, Bachelor of Divinity, Professor of Mathematics;  and Charles Whitley, Master of Arts, and the Reverend Thomas Williamson Peile, Master of Arts, Proctors in the said University.
And whereas the said Dean and Chapter of Durham being desirous, as it hath been represented unto us, of confirming the said Act of Chapter, made and passed by them on the Fourth day of April, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four, and of further exercising the trusts and powers reposed in them by the said recited Act of Parliament of the third year of our Reign did by an Instrument in writing bearing date the Twentieth Day of July, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-five, under their common Seal, with the consent of the Bishop of Durham, and by virtue, and in pursuance of the trusts and powers in the said Act of Parliament, and of every other power enabling them in that behalf, and for the purpose of confirming the said Act of Chapter made and passed on the Fourth Day of April, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four, establish the College or University then existing in the City of Durham, a University for the establishment of learning in connection with the said Cathedral Church, and for ever thereafter to continue and be a University by the name of “THE UNIVERSITY OF DURHAM;” and did ordain and prescribe that the same should consist of a Warden, or Principal; a Professor of Divinity and Ecclesiastical History;  a Professor  of Greek and Classical Literature;  a Professor of Mathematics, and two Proctors;  and of such Readers and Teachers, the same being appointed by the Bishop of Durham, and the Dean and Chapter of Durham, respectively;  and of such Graduates in the several Faculties, and of such Scholars and others as should, from time to time, become Members of the said University;  and did, in all other respects, confirm the said of Act of Chapter of the Fourth Day of April, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four, and all elections and proceedings which had been made, and had pursuant thereto;  And further did ordain, order, and prescribe certain regulations for the better establishment of the said University; and amongst others, the following regulations with respect to the present and future Members of Convocation (that is to say), That the first or present Convocation shall consist of the said Charles Thorp, the Warden, and of such persons as shall have proceeded to the degree of Doctor in any of the three Faculties, or of Master of Arts in any of the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge and Dublin, and shall be Members of the University of Durham;  That the Convocation shall in future consist, besides the original Members, of all persons regularly admitted to the Degrees of Doctor of Divinity, Doctor of Civil Law, Doctor of Medicine, and Master of Arts in the University of Durham, and conforming to the regulations thereof:  and did further ordain, order, and prescribe the following regulation with respect to the admission of Members of the said University, (that is to say), - No one shall be held to be a Member of the University who has not been matriculated, that is, whose name has not been placed on the Register of the University, by the authority of the Warden.
And whereas , during the Vacancy of the See of Durham, the Right Reverend Father in God, John Banks, by Divine permission Bishop of St.
David’s, Dean, and the Chapter of Durham, of the Cathedral Church of Christ and Blessed Mary the Virgin, the Founders and Governors of the said University of Durham, and the said Charles Thorp, the Warden of the said University, have presented their petition to us, stating amongst other things, that in addition to the Endowment provided by the lastly- mentioned Act of Parliament certain scholarships have been founded in the said University, and some gifts of money and books have been made thereto;  and also that many students have resorted to the said University, and have become members thereof, and are diligently instructed in the several branches of science and literature; and also that the said Charles Thorp is the present Warden of the said University;  that the said Henry Jenkyns is the present Professor of Greek and Classical Literature;  that the said Temple Chevallier is the present Professor of Mathematics;  that the said Charles Whitley and Thomas Williamson Peile, are the present Proctors;  that the said Charles Thorp, and divers other Doctors and Masters in the several Faculties, to the number of eighty-four, are the present members of Convocation;  that Stafford Brown, Bachelor of Arts of Cambridge, Robert Warwick Furness, John Cundill, and others, to the number of seventy-one, are the present scholars;  and that great part of the said individuals are resident in the said University during the Academical Terms, and actively engaged in their respective duties;  and also that the said petitioners having regard to the Endowment provided for the University of Durham, and the wants of the surrounding district, are assured that, with the blessing of God, it will speedily fulfil the object of its institution, the advancement of learning based on sound religious principles;  but that they are advised that the said University would be better established, and its character and design more clearly and appropriately determined, if its members were incorporated by our Royal Charter;  and have humbly prayed us that we will be graciously pleased to confer upon the said Charles Thorp, and the other members of the said University of Durham, and all persons who shall hereafter be duly admitted members thereof, our Royal Charter and Letters Patent of Incorporation, so that they become and be for ever hereafter one Body Public and Corporate, - Now know ye , that we ever earnestly desiring to support every Institution for the advancement of Religion and Learning, and trusting that the said University of Durham, so established under our Royal sanction, and the authority of our Parliament, may, under the blessing of Almighty God, prove an eminent source of good to our loving subjects, especial Grace, certain knowledge, and mere motion, have granted , constituted, declared and appointed, and by these presents, for us, our heirs, and successors, do grant, constitute, declare, and appoint, that the said Charles Thorp, and all persons who now are, or who shall hereafter be duly admitted, Members of the said university, in pursuance of the before-mentioned regulation, or according to such rules and regulations as may be hereafter made and established by the said Dean and Chapter under their Common Seal, with the consent of the Lord Bishop of Durham for the time being, for the admission of Members thereof, shall be and remain for ever hereafter, one Body Politic and Corporate, under and by the name of  “The Warden, Masters and Scholars of the University of Durham,” and by that name shall and may have perpetual succession, and a Common Seal, with power to break, alter, and make anew such Seal, from time to time, at their will and pleasure; and by that name shall be governed and continued according to the provisions of the said Act of Parliament, made and passed in the third year of our reign; and by that name shall have and enjoy all the property, rights, and privileges which are assured by the said Act to the University therein contemplated and authorised; or are incident to a University established by our Royal Charter.
In Witness whereof, we have caused these our letters to be made Patent.
Witness Ourself , at our Palace at Westminister, the First Day of June in the seventh year of our Reign.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/disclaimer:
The University has taken reasonable care to ensure that the information published on this website is accurate at the time of publication or last modification.
However, the University gives no warranty or representation as to the quality, accuracy or completeness of the information.
In particular, the University is not able to guarantee that it will continue or be accurate during a time of server failure.
The website is made available for public viewing on the basis that the University excludes to the fullest extent lawfully permitted all liability whatsoever for any loss or damage howsoever arising out of the use of this website or reliance upon the content of this website.
No liability is excluded for personal injury or death resulting from the University's negligence or fraud or for any matter, which would be illegal to exclude liability or attempt to so exclude.
The University's website is intended as a general guide to the University's courses and facilities and forms no part of any contract between you and the University.
Enrolment at the University is subject to acceptance of the student enrolment conditions contained in the University's Handbook of Student Regulations.
On acceptance by an applicant of an offer of a place at the University, the relationship between the applicant and the University becomes contractual.
On entering into that contract neither the student nor the University intends that any of the terms of the contract will be enforceable by virtue of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 by any person not a party to it.
The University is not responsible for the content or availability of any external websites which may be linked from this site.
Such links are provided only for the convenience of the user and do not imply endorsement of any products or services.
The University takes no responsibility for any loss or damage suffered as a result of using the linked websites or as a result of using the information published on any of the pages of the linked websites.
Whilst every effort is made to ensure downloadable content is free from viruses, the University cannot accept any liability for damages resulting from virus infection.
You should take adequate steps to ensure your virus check regularly when using any device.
The University makes all reasonable efforts to deliver the programmes of study and research opportunities and other services and facilities in the way described on this website.
However, the University shall be entitled, if it reasonably considers it to be necessary (including in order to manage its resources and pursue its policy of continuous improvement appropriately):
Except in circumstances beyond its reasonable control, if the University discontinues or does not provide a programme of study or changes it significantly before it begins:
In the event that the relevant individual does not wish to accept the replacement programme and notifies the University in writing within a reasonable time of being informed of the change, the University will make an appropriate refund of tuition fees and deposits paid in accordance with the University's stated policy from time to time.
In the event that the University is unable to deliver programmes of study, research opportunities and other services or facilities described in this website due to any cause beyond its reasonable control which will include, but not be limited to, any governmental action, civil and/or international commotion, fire, flood, war, labour disputes or act of God, the University shall not be liable to any person for any failure or delay in performing its obligations.
The University reserves the right to change the terms, conditions and notices under which this website is offered.
These terms are governed by English law.
By using the website you consent to the jurisdiction of the English courts in all disputes arising out of or relating to the website.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/trading-name:
Durham University and the Durham University Logo are registered trademarks of the University of Durham trading as Durham University.
All rights reserved.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/cookie-notice:
The information on this page is relevant to www.durham.ac.uk and its sub-sites.
Some subdomains or web applications provided by Durham University may use other cookies.
Please see the individual site or app cookie policy for more information.
Most websites use cookies to remember information about you and your preferences, either for the duration of your visit or for repeat visits.
A cookie is a simple text file that is stored on your computer or mobile device by a website, and that website can then retrieve the contents of that cookie.
Cookies may be set by the website you are visiting ('first party cookies') or by other websites which provide content on the page you are viewing ('third party cookies').
More information on cookies can be found here at www.allaboutcookies.org .
The following is an explanation of cookie types that may be used.
These cookies are necessary for the basic operation of our website.
They help to make it usable by enabling functions like page navigation.
The website cannot function properly without these cookies.
These cookies allow us to track the performance and usage of the Durham website with anonymised "statistics".
We use cookies to track how you navigate around the website and use the statistics that these create to improve the website's performance and user experience.
We use the Uptrends Real User Monitoring (RUM) service to anonymously monitor website performance to ensure the website is loading correctly and optimised for end user experience.
We don't control the dissemination of these third-party cookies and you should check the relevant third-party's website for more information.
We don't sell the information collected by cookies, nor do we disclose the information to third parties, except where required by law.
These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation.
They may be set by us or by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages.
If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly.
These services include:
Website search: The website search facilities use a bespoke Terminalfour search engine to index web pages, and provide search results and associated sorting and filtering tools.
Holly chatbot: On certain web pages we have deployed an AI-based chatbot widget to assist with enquiries about studying at Durham.
Live chat: On certain web pages, we have deployed a live chat widget so that visitors can chat directly with a member of our Admissions Enquiries team.
Discover Uni widget: Our course pages include the Discover Uni widget which provides useful additional course data from student surveys.
Speedy Booker: If you are booking a room to stay at one of our facilities, we use the Speedy Booker service, which allows us to collect information to process your enquiry or booking.
Gecko web forms: We use the Gecko service to embed web forms on our website which allows us to process and manage your enquiry through our CRM system.
Maxmind: We use the Maxmind service to allow us to personalise some of our web content for different regions of the world.
We also embed social media and video content from third-party websites such as:
As a result, when you visit one of our pages containing such content, you may be presented with cookies from these services.
We sometimes use Google AdWords Remarketing pixels to assist with our marketing and delivery of online advertising across the Internet, in particular on the Google Display Network.
By better understanding what our audiences are interested in, we can more efficiently promote the University.
The technology to do this is made possible by cookies and as such we may place a "remarketing cookie" during your visit.
AdWords remarketing will display ads to you based on what parts of the Durham website you have viewed by placing a cookie on your web browser.
This cookie does not in any way identify you or give access to your computer or mobile device.
The cookie is used to indicate to other websites that "This person visited a particular page, so show them ads relating to that page." This way we can show you ads that are personalised to you.
If you do not wish to see personalised ads from Durham University, you can opt-out in several ways:
Opt out of Google's use of cookies by visiting Google's Ads Settings Opt out of a third-party vendor's use of cookies by visiting youradchoices opt-out .
Please note that opting out won't stop you from seeing adverts, just that they won't be tailored specifically to you.
If you don’t want websites to store cookies on your device, you can modify your browser so that it asks for your permission when a website wants to set a cookie, or you can refuse cookies altogether.
You can also delete cookies that have already been set.
If you wish to restrict or block web browser cookies on your device then you can do this through your browser settings; the Help function within your browser should tell you how.
For Google Analytics cookies, Google provides a Google Analytics opt-out tool which allows you to specify that you don't want to accept their cookies, not just for our site, but for all sites which use Google Analytics.
To find out more information and opt out of third-party cookies, please visit the relevant privacy and cookie policy pages on third-party websites.
To opt-out of the HotJar session recording service you can do so using the following instructions .
Please note you will need to opt-out on each browser that you use.
To disable personalised ads you can update your preferences by visiting Google's Ads Settings and for third-party vendor's cookies by visiting youradchoices opt-out .
Most web browsers allow some control of most cookies through the browser settings.
To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set, visit knowcookies.com .
Find out how to manage cookies on popular browsers:
Google Chrome Edge Internet Explorer Firefox Opera Safari

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/governance/information-governance/privacy-notices:
Privacy Notices inform data subjects about how the University processes their personal data.
Privacy Notices for the following categories of data subjects have been published:
Individuals have the right to be made aware of how their personal data is being used.
Timescale: This should be documented and communicated in a Privacy Notice available at the point of data collection.
Individuals have the right to access their personal data so that they are aware of and can verify the lawfulness of the data processing, as well as correcting any inaccuracies in that data.
There are some circumstances under which the University will consider a request for access to personal data on behalf of another individual, or a request for access to personal data of another individual without their consent.
For more information please refer to the Subject Access Request page.
Timescale: Respond without undue delay and information provided within one calendar month.
This may be extended by a further two months where necessary, considering the complexity of the request.
Individuals have the right to have personal data rectified where it is inaccurate or incomplete which could include but is not limited to:
Timescale: Respond without undue delay and no later than one calendar month.
Individuals have the right to request the deletion or removal of personal data where there is no compelling reason for its continued processing.
This is often called the 'right to be forgotten'.
This right is not absolute and only applies in specific circumstances:
Individuals have the right to ask us to temporarily stop processing their personal data in certain circumstances whilst such processing is reviewed:
Individuals have the right to obtain and reuse their personal data for their own purposes across different services.
It allows them to move, copy or transfer personal data easily from one IT environment to another in a safe and secure way, without hindrance to usability.
Note that this only applies:
To personal data an individual has provided to a controller, Where the processing is based on the individual’s consent or for the performance of a contract, and When processing is carried out by automated means.
Individuals have the right to object to:
Processing based on legitimate interests or the performance of a task in the public interest/exercise of official authority (including profiling) Direct marketing (including profiling) Processing for purposes of scientific/historical research and statistics.
Individuals have the right not to be subject to a decision made solely by automated means and to profiling (automated processing of personal data to evaluate certain things about an individual).
Individuals have a number of rights granted under data protection legislation, as described above.
If you would like to exercise your rights, you should refer to the relevant Privacy Notice, which will explain to you how to do so.
Direct communications from the University may also provide additional details and opportunities to exercise your rights, such as unsubscribe features within emails which support the right to object.
If you would like to make a request in relation to one of the above Individual Rights, you should then complete the Individual Rights Application form .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/governance:
Durham University is a legally independent and autonomous institution established by Act of Parliament in 1832 and Royal Charter in 1837.
It is also an educational charity.
Further information concerning how the University is governed and the senior people responsible for managing the institution.
The University Secretary's Office SharePoint site provides further information about the University's governance framework and its committees as well as templates and guidance for preparing committee papers.
Find out more about the University governance

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/governance/senior-leadership-team:
The University is led by the Vice-Chancellor and Warden, Professor Karen O’Brien.
For more information on the work of each Senior Leadership Team member, click on their profile.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/governance/chancellor:
Dr Fiona Hill was born in Bishop Auckland, County Durham.
The daughter of a coal miner and a midwife, she attended Bishop Barrington Comprehensive School, in Bishop Auckland, and showed thirst for learning from an early age.
After school Fiona pursued degree studies at St Andrew’s University, Scotland, graduating with a Master’s in Russian and Modern History.
She also holds a doctorate in History from Harvard University, USA, where she was a Frank Knox Fellow.
Dr Hill has built a career as an acclaimed foreign affairs specialist and author, as well as a presidential advisor to three US Presidents: George W.
Bush, Barack Obama and Donald Trump.
She served on the US National Intelligence Council from 2006 to 2009 and was a member of the US National Security Council from 2017 to 2019.
In July 2024 Dr Hill was appointed by UK Prime Minister, Sir Keir Starmer, to co-lead a comprehensive review into the UK armed forces .
Fiona is a widely recognised authority on Russian and European Geopolitics.
She has researched and published extensively on her specialist subjects.
She is author of “ There Is Nothing for You Here: Finding Opportunity in the 21st Century ” and co-author of “ Mr Putin: Operative in the Kremlin ”.
Dr Hill is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a non-profit public policy organisation based in Washington DC.
It conducts in-depth research that leads to new ideas for solving problems facing society at the local, national and global level.
You can read more about Fiona’s work with the Brookings Institution on the Brookings Institution website .
Fiona is passionate about social mobility, having, in her words, moved “literally from the coalhouse to the White House”.
In June 2022 she visited her former secondary school to give a talk to pupils.
She encouraged them to grasp “every educational opportunity” they are given and spoke of her desire to “give back” to the area where she grew up.
She became a US citizen in 2002 and is married with one daughter.
The Chancellor is the ceremonial head of Durham University.
It is a high-profile role which includes official, pastoral, scholarly and ambassadorial duties.
Some of the key responsibilities of the Chancellor include:
Dr Fiona Hill was officially installed as the 13 th Chancellor of Durham University in June 2023.
Find out more about the ceremony here .
Previous Chancellors include:
Malcolm MacDonald (1971 - 1980)
Dame Margot Fonteyn (1981 - 1990)
Sir Peter Ustinov (1992 - 2004)
Bill Bryson (2005 - 2011)
Sir Thomas Allen (2011 - 2022)
Dr Fiona Hill (2022 -)

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/governance/council:
Council is the governing body of the University and its Trustee Board.
Council has ultimate responsibility for the affairs of the University.
View the profiles of current Council members
Access minutes of recent Council meetings
Council is supported by a number of committees that include:
More information on the Council committees is published by the University Secretary's Office (internal only)
Council conducts a review every few years in line with the guidance in the Committee of University Chairs (CUC) Code of Governance in order to enhance its own effectiveness and ensure Council has sufficient skills, knowledge and independence to enable Council to discharge its responsibilities.
The most recent review was conducted in 2021 and the Report has been presented to Council.
The Executive Summary is available at: CER-ExecutiveSummary2021 The Governance and Nominations Committee is overseeing implementation of the action plans in relation to the recommendations included in the Report.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/governance/governance-documentation:
Durham University is a legally independent and autonomous institution, established by Act of Parliament in 1832 and Royal Charter 1837.
The Univesity is also an educational charity.
Access our governance documentation.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/governance/information-governance:
Contact the Information Governance Unit.
University Secretary’s Office

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/governance/terms-and-conditions:
We are delighted to be welcoming you to the Durham University community, either as a new student or if you are returning to the University to continue your studies.
Successful study at university stems from a partnership between students and staff, and the University is committed to providing you with a learning environment and student services which can help you to fulfil your potential.
Underpinning this relationship, the University has a set of Student Regulations, Policies and Codes of Practice.
The Student Regulations, Policies and Codes of Practice, together with the Terms and Conditions of Admissions, form the legal relationship or “contract” between you and the University concerning your studies at Durham University.
Industrial action
Please see the Student Guide to Industrial Action which has been published by the Office for Students.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services:
We provide a wide range of support services to the university.
Browse our range of support on offer to both students and staff.
Find out more about our Support Services .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/computing-information-services:
Computing and Information Services (CIS) is responsible for providing and maintaining Durham University's information technology services to support teaching, learning, research, and administrative activities.
Learn more about our current and recent projects.
CIS is an ambitious and forward-thinking team, supporting Durham's strategic objectives through world-leading IT services and support.
Find out how to contact Computing and Information Services.
Bill Bryson Library
DH1 3LY
Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 1515
Looking for information about specific services for staff or students?
Head over to our CIS Intranet, where you can find out about all of our services, how to access them and where to get help and support.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/university-nursery:
Durham University Day Nursery is an outstanding nursery provider and a diverse community open to all.
Our nursery staff pride themselves on being caring, extremely motivated, highly experienced, and fully qualified professionals who work in partnership with parents to provide and carers on providing a safe, nurturing and stimulating environment for babies aged from six weeks old through to providing activities to develop the school-age children in our care.
Haworth Building, Leazes Road, Durham, DH1 1TA
Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 8153
Email: day.nursery@durham.ac.uk
Prospectus: New Prospectus

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/equality-diversity-inclusion:
Durham University seeks to provide a respectful and inclusive environment where all staff and students can thrive.
At Durham, our people are our most important asset.
We believe that our success is tied to being able to attract, retain and develop outstanding staff and students from all backgrounds and identities.
We are committed to creating a welcoming and inclusive environment where our people feel supported and valued, enabling them to not only succeed, but thrive.
We strongly believe that people are happier, enjoy their work more and perform better in a place where:
Making Durham a truly inclusive place requires ongoing commitment from all members of our University community.
Our team works with all Departments across the University to embed equality and diversity in everything we do, as we work towards our goal of making Durham a welcoming and inclusive place for everyone.
Explore our latest news.
Explore our upcoming events.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/finance-service:
Visit our dedicated sites for current staff and students.
The Finance Service is committed to responsible and sustainable financial planning and performance, supporting the University’s strategic and operational plans within a changing funding landscape and wider financial environment.
The Finance Service plays an essential role in supporting all Academic Departments, Colleges and other Professional Services areas across the University.
We provide analysis and advice to assist with decision making that impacts the University's financial sustainability, whilst ensuring value for money and supporting the wider University Strategy.
Find out more about our wide range of support services.
1.
Debit/Credit Card Payment
If you wish to make a card payment visit https://pay.durham.ac.uk/invoice-payments
This system will allow you to select your invoice and make payment of the full instalment value.
You will receive an automated receipt on successful payment.
If your invoice is not displaying or you are having any difficulties using this facility please contact us on Accounts.Receivable@durham.ac.uk
2.
International Bank Transfer or International Card for Overseas Students - Flywire
· Visit dur.flywire.com and choose your country and the amounts you are paying in GBP
· Choose your payment method and make your payment to Flywire
· Enter your details and those of the student you are paying for · Track and confirm your payment by email, SMS or by logging into dur.flywire.com
· Pay in over 70 currencies
· Pay by bank transfer or international credit / debit card (Alipay and Wechatpay are available)
· Eliminate bank fees and enjoy excellent exchange rates
· Track your payment from start to finish
· Pay from any country and any bank
· Feel safe, with 24/7 dedicated multilingual customer support.
3.
International Payment via EasyTransfer
International students from China, Hong Kong, India, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan, Malaysia, Pakistan, Nigeria, and 170+ countries and regions can pay with EasyTransfer.
This quick, safe and secure service allows you to make payments in your local currency and local payment methods easily with low fees and transparent exchange rates.
Pay like a local with EasyTransfer!
Popular local options from your home country are supported, such as WeChat Pay, UPI, PromptPay, e-Wallets, and International Cards.
EasyTransfer’s team of payment specialists will guide you step by step and give you peace of mind that your full payment is delivered to the university.
From checking their live rates, submitting your order to completing your payment, you will be taken care of during the entire journey by a dedicated human customer support staff over the instant messaging platform of your preference.
To get started, please click the link to access EasyTransfer's payment portal.
You can make the following payments with EasyTransfer:
4.
Recurring Card Arrangement by Debit/Credit Card
Please contact the team on the telephone number below if you wish to set up a recurring card arrangement to schedule collection of your termly or monthly instalments, or alternatively contact us on email credit.control@durham.ac.uk
Please do not use this number for one off payments.
01782 697671
Once an arrangement has been set up you will receive an email showing the schedule of payments.
You will receive an email after each attempt to collect a payment to advise if it was successful or unsuccessful.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/health-and-safety:
The Health and Safety Service is committed to its primary role of providing competent advice, guidance and coaching to improve outcomes and deliver on its responsibilities as the independent adviser, auditor and prime mover in the Health and Safety Management system.
The strategic themes, listed below, align to those of the HSE and support continual improvement:
For further information or guidance please email: health.safety@durham.ac.uk or contact the Business Support team on (0191 33) 46453.
All accidents and incidents, including injury, fire, dangerous occurrences and near misses, must be reported to us so we can ensure incidents are investigated appropriately and lessons learnt to prevent a similar incident occurring.
Wheatlands Way
Pity Me
DH1 5FA
Email: health.safety@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/human-resources:
Shortcuts to a selection of the services we provide.
Please contact us via the relevant support section from the Contact Us link below.
Boldon House Wheatlands Way Pity Me Durham DH1 5FA

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/procurement-services:
Our Procurement Service is strategically led by the Director of Procurement and provides a comprehensive procurement advisory service covering all aspects of supply chain management to Departments and Colleges.
Durham University has reviewed its governance arrangements and income as stated in its audited financial statements.
For the financial year ending 31 July 2024, we have concluded that it is not a contracting authority for the purposes of the Public Contracts Regulations 2015 (as amended).
The University’s contracting status will be assessed annually.
Contact us to find out more.
Durham University Procurement Service Hawthorn Wing Mountjoy Centre Stockton Road Durham DH1 3LE

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/academic-appeals-misconduct:
The Academic Quality Service Team (formerly CLAS) administers University-level appeals, and institutional disciplinary processes resulting from academic misconduct (e.g.
plagiarism, examination irregularities).
Follow the links below for details, or for further information contact Student Appeals .
Further information on Academic Appeals
Further information on Academic Misconduct
We are committed to dealing with complainants fairly and impartially and to providing a high quality service when investigating appeals and complaints.
However we do not expect Durham University staff to tolerate unacceptable behaviour.
Therefore this Code of practice sets out the University’s approach to the relatively few complainants or appellants whose actions or behaviour we consider to be unacceptable.
Consequently, this code of practice should be read in conjunction with the University’s General Regulation VII Academic Appeals and the University’s Complaints Procedure for Students.
The Full Code of Practice .
Durham University aims to provide a high standard and quality of service for applicants and to deliver an admissions process that is consistent, fair and professional, but recognises that occasionally things may go wrong.
As part of its commitment to enhancing the applicant experience, we have established a procedure to deal with complaints from applicants in a fair and transparent manner.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/security-at-durham:
SafeZone is a free to download safety app available to all Durham University staff and students, which connects you directly to the University security team should you require assistance.
To report a incident of bullying, harassment or sexual misconduct use our Report and Support Tool.
We take the safety and wellbeing of our community seriously and work closely with a range of external partners in matters of health and safety.
Durham University enjoys a productive and positive working relationship with Durham Constabulary and in particular the City team.
Whilst the University will do all that it can to ensure you are safe and secure on campus, try to make sure you do all you can to remain safe and secure too.
We have developed a statement to provide information about the approach we take to international security - our policies, staff commitment, and technical and procedural controls.
You can read the full international security statement .
Further resources for security information and staying safe at Durham.
Find out how to contact us.
+44 (0)191 334 2222
or
+44 (0)191 334 3333

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/energy-and-sustainability:
Our project entitled 'Enhancing Biodiversity at Durham' has been Highly Commended for the Nature Positive category in the International Green Gown Awards 2024.
By inspiring a shared culture with our communities, we can preserve our beautiful environment for future generations to enjoy.
EcoCampus is the environmental management scheme for higher and further education.
The EcoCampus Scheme develops, implements and maintains our environmental management system in line with the international management system standard, ISO14001.
We achieved the Platinum Eco Campus Award in 2020.
Couldn't find what you were looking for?
Please contact us via email in the link below, we will do our best to answer any of your questions.
Holly Wing
First Floor
Mountjoy Centre

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/operations-directorate:
As a key part of the Durham University Wider Student Experience, the Operations Directorate ensures that all undergraduate students have the opportunity to spend part of their time at university in residence at one of our seventeen Colleges.
We consider it of particular importance for new undergraduate first year students to live, work, eat, and socialise together as part of a community of learning.
The Operations Directorate includes University Catering and College Operations.
The Catering team, of over 500 people, provide fresh and exciting catering throughout Durham University.
Our menus include college dining halls, college bars & cafes, branded retail catering outlets and visitor attractions created to meet the diverse needs of our University Community including students, staff, and visitors alike.
The Operations team, of over 200 people, provide College services including Residential Services such as Security, Reception, Housekeeping and Cleaning, and professional advice on bar management.
In addition to these services, they support student-led events and manage non-student events for internal and external users of the Colleges.
All these teams seamlessly support the consistent day-to-day running of student experience within wider College life.
Discover our delicious catering options, vibrant retail shop, food allergens policy and much more - click the links below to find out more!

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/university-strategy:
Our purpose is to enrich lives and change the world through the advancement of learning – virtually unchanged from when we were founded in 1832.
Our core goals are to deliver:
Our University Strategy is made up of 13 strategic areas and is our roadmap up until 2027.
It includes three academic core strategies, four transversal strategies and six enabling strategies.
Since the launch of our Strategy, there has been significant change in the external environment.
Reaching the midway point provided us with an opportunity to review our progress, celebrate our achievements and refresh our priorities.
Our Graduate Attributes are meaningful and relevant to our diverse and global University community.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/our-values:
As part of the refresh of our Strategy, we have developed a new set of core lived values which set out the principles by which we will act across everything we do.
We enrich lives and change the world through the advancement of learning.
We achieve this by:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/graduate-attributes:
At Durham we want our students to leave with more than a degree; we want them to graduate ready to make a difference in the world.
We are committed to supporting our students to develop the knowledge, skills, and values needed to succeed in an ever-evolving global society.
We developed our Graduate Attributes in consultation with students, alumni and staff.
They are woven into university life, including our wider student experience, academic programmes, college activities and Careers and Employability Centre.
Each attribute is underpinned by an array of specialist and transferable skills.
When you join us, you are encouraged to track your growth of these Attributes by using a range of self-reflection techniques.
Our Graduate Attributes serve as a cornerstone to the Durham student experience, embedded across both academic and co-curricular activities.
Through this holistic approach, we provide our students opportunities to develop the confidence and competencies needed to thrive long after they leave university.
Throughout their degree programmes, students have access to a diverse range of development opportunities that encourage them to reflect on their experiences, gain a deeper understanding of themselves, and allow them to develop the skills required to make a lasting impact in their future careers

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-social-and-economic-sustainability:
We’ve been recognised as one of the top universities in the world for taking action to address the most pressing Environment, Social and Governance challenges facing society today.
We are making a major commitment to Sustainability research through Durham's Strategic Research Fund (SRF).
The SRF aims to stimulate significant growth in research income for the University through substantial investments in our research capability, community, and infrastructure.
By signing the Concordat, we have committed to action to reduce the environmental impact and emissions produced by our research and to promote sustainable practices.
Our educational programmes on sustainability help make a positive long-term difference.
We offer a wide range of Undergraduate and Postgraduate programmes, covering many subject areas to help our students become global leaders of change.
We also offer free online courses and videos.
As a global population, we continue to see a range of global challenges brought about by issues that we need to tackle together.
We have a dedicated Energy and Sustainability Team, which coordinates environmental initiatives across the University with the help of environmental champions and student representatives.
At Durham, our people are our most important asset.
Below some examples of our collaborative work through our Institutes and Centres that contributes to environmental and societal changes.
Working with a range of partners and stakeholders, we are actively contributing to the economy, culture, society and reputation of Durham’s city and region.
Our work with regional schools aims to raise aspirations and extend educational opportunities to all.
Durham University has many initiatives designed to strengthen our position as a globally recognised leader in scientific research and education.
As part of the University Strategy Refresh, we have developed a revised statement of institutional purpose which will guide the choices that we make and the communications that we issue about the revised Strategy.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/finance-service/about-us/financial-reports:
The Annual Report provides an outline of the current state of the institution, highlights progress made over the year in relation to our Strategy, and includes the Financial Statements.
*Please note: To view the PDF in its accessible format, please download the file and open it in Adobe Acrobat.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/schools/access-engagement/access-and-participation-plans:
Our Access and Participation Plan 2025/26 to 2028/29 has been approved by the Office for Students.
This will take effect on 1 September 2025 , though a great deal of activity was delivered from 2024 onward.
Students are covered by the plan in place at the time they started their studies.
That plan applies throughout their studies, even if we have introduced new plans in later years.
The most recent plans are known as ‘access and participation plans’ or ‘APPs’.
These plans have been approved by the Office for Students.
Before this, universities instead had “Access Agreements”.
Those agreements were approved by the Office for Fair Access (OFFA).
You can see Durham’s current and previous APPs and Access Agreements below.
You can also read more about our support for students and a summary of our latest APP here: Access and Participation - Durham University
2025-26 to 2028-29 Access and Participation Plan
Student Fees 2024 -25 Summary
2020-21 to 2024-25 Access and Participation Plan Durham University
2020-21 to 2024-25 Latest Durham APP Summary
2019-2020 Durham University APP
2019-20 APP Impact Report
2018-19 Access Agreement
2017-18 Access Agreement
2016-17 Access Agreement
2015-16 Access Agreement
2014-15 Access Agreement
2013-14 Access Agreement
2012-13 Access Agreement
2010-11 and 2011-12 Access Agreement
2009-2010 Access Agreement
2008-2009 Access Agreement
2006-07 and 2007-08 Access Agreement

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/estate-development:
More information

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/connect:
We are here to support you throughout your life with a range of dedicated alumni services.
Keep your contact details up to date and we can keep you informed of things happening locally to you as well as all things Durham.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/connect/alumni-benefits:
We are here to support you throughout your life with a range of dedicated alumni services for you to take advantage of.
Register now for the exclusive opportunities open to you - whether that is building up your personal and professional networks, continuing your learning or managing your career and professional development.
Dunelm , annual magazine for alumni.
Newsletters and alumni communications, from the University, your College and academic department with event invitations, magazines and news.
Alumni events , attend either local, national.
international, in-person or virtually.
Postgraduate study , we have a wide range of options for you to continue your education with Durham.
Alumni Fee S cholarship , e njoy a discount on our postgraduate courses.
Durham Public Lectures , engage in further learning through public lectures hosted across the University.
Library access, on campus access for all alumni.
JSTOR , free lifetime access to JSTOR electronic journals.
EBSCO , Business School graduates can access EBSCO online research platform.
Your Global Durham Community , connect with one of your Durham alumni chapters around the world.
Email for life , create your own @dunelm.org.uk email address.
Make the most of your alumni network on LinkedIn .
Career Development , lifelong support from our Careers Service.
Enjoy discounts and offers in and around historic Durham.
Durham Stash , m emories of Durham from our online shop.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/connect/ways-to-connect:
Fill in your latest details and start receiving news events and updates tailored to you.
Connect with us on your social platform of choice.
We're on Instagram , LinkedIn , Twitter , Facebook and YouTube
Alumni profiles help to inspire current and prospective students as well as celebrate your successes with your peers.
Share your story with us .
Alumni groups have formed worldwide - see if there's one near you we can connect to, or even set up your own.
Find out more about Chapters .
Volunteer your time or expertise to support students through their journey.
See some of the projects that Durham alumni and other friends have supported with gifts and volunteering.
We have a full programme of events .
You can access most of them online wherever you are.
See if there's one for you.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/connect/our-colleges:
Our colleges have always provided a source of support and guidance for our students long after graduation.
It is here that friendships and networks develop that will last a lifetime.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/alumni-and-friends:
In September the School opened the doors to Waterside.
The new building is in Durham City Centre and has won an award for sustainability.
Find out more and view the 2-minute walkthrough video.
School alumni can get actively involved in a number of ways and mentoring is just one way to make a difference to current students on our programmes.
Read more.
Whether you graduated 5 days ago or 5 decades ago, you will always be welcome at Durham University Business School.
Please login or sign-up now for full member access to a range of alumni benefits and services including:
- EBSCO
- Email for life
- Careers Gateway
- Alumni Events

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved:
Your relationship with Durham doesn't end at Congregation.
For over 150 years you have been generously volunteering your time and expertise to support our students, the wider alumni community and enhance the reputation of the University globally.
The advice and support within the community is invaluable at any stage in the individual journeys of our graduates - and one of the foremost reasons in the choice to study at Durham.
We thank you for your generosity, you are making a difference.
We are excited to announce that Dunelm Days will be renamed Durham Days and the next celebration will take place during Durham Global Week from Saturday 1 March – Sunday 9 March 2025.
This is just a small snapshot of the range of activities our alumni volunteers have supported us with this year.
If you're feeling inspired, view our current alumni volunteering opportunities or get in touch .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved/ways-to-get-involved:
There are lots of ways to get involved with the University, either in Durham or as part of one of our networking groups internationally.
It’s a great feeling to have helped others by sharing your experiences or expertise and a great excuse to have some fun along the way.
Become an alumni ambassador and give others the gift of your;
Share your experiences, insights and memories at one of our in-person or virtual events.
You can help us welcome our graduates to the global alumni community by hosting or helping at events or chapter gatherings.
Or you could join us as a mentor.
We always welcome expertise at our careers and employability events, so this is an opportunity for you to join us as a speaker or facilitator.
We also run faculty and alumni events which could benefit from your knowledge, experience and skill sets.
You can also submit an article or interview that we can use as content to showcase a new business start-up, help understand your area of expertise and its opportunities, or assist others to make informed choices about their future within your sector.
Your stories are an important part of our community.
Whether you're working in the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, like Melissa Dawson (pictured above), or creating a new business from home, every aspect of your journey can inspire others.
We also love to see your photos from alumni meet-ups, Dunelm Days, business networking events, new product launches, or simply the fantastic view from your new office.
The most important thing is to keep in touch.
If your employer or your own business can offer a current student work experience, placement or internship opportunities, get in touch with our team.
You'll know first-hand the importance of that first career step and getting connected in your industry or sector.
We'd also welcome the offer of a venue for alumni and student events, either in the UK or internationally.
This is a great opportunity to involve others in your place of work, business or social network.
Some of our alumni enjoy joining or leading an International Alumni Group.
This allows you to network in a wider sense, across disciplines and industries.
Plus you get to enjoy the company of other Durham graduates who have shared a similar experience to you.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved/dunelmensis-awards:
The Dunelmensis Award is given by the University’s Senate to a Durham alumnus or alumna for meritorious and exceptional service in support of the University, particularly for our institutional advancement and for enhancing the University’s reputation, nationally and internationally.
Congratulations to our Dunelmensis Award winners 2024:
As a dedicated and committed alumna of Durham University and Collingwood College, Kate has contributed to a range of activities.
However, it is not simply the commission of these activities that makes her contribution so notable; it is her devotion to her university and her college, underpinned by an affection that is manifested by huge levels of enthusiasm and positivity.
In addition to generous philanthropic giving which spans decades, Kate has committed membership of Collingwood’s College Advisory Board since its inception.
This involves attendance at termly meetings but, equally importantly, ready accessibility and availability for consultation and advice.
Kate also regularly participates in College and University events held in London and Durham and supports Collingwood and other Durham University students through mentoring.
With a particular area of expertise and interest in the Arts, Kate has guided and supported several leading music and theatre students.
Kate is an exceptional role model for her college and the wider university community, and we congratulate her on her award.
For more than a decade, Hatfield, History and Business School alumnus, Ralph Grayson, has been extremely active across College, Department and University levels in supporting strategically valuable areas of the University’s portfolio.
Ralph has married his support of Durham University as a whole with his attachment to Hatfield College and his passion for widening participation, by offering a range of opportunities for First Generation Scholars (FGS) at Hatfield.
For several years, he has provided individual mentoring and introductions for FGS students interested in potential careers in the City.
Ralph has further given generously of his time and expertise leading workshops for FGS students at Hatfield, together with junior colleagues from his firm of FGS background, on networking, the graduate job market, personal branding and imposter syndrome.
Several students have also undertaken practice interviews with Ralph and his colleagues at the leading City head hunting firm he co-founded.
This programme of support led to eight Hatfield FGS students undertaking salaried internships with the firm, generating introductions to leading Durham graduates in the City and enabling them to compete on a level playing field as they enter the graduate job market.
Through great personal interest and mentoring from Ralph, the students gained excellent insight into a busy City Office, and strongly confidence-enhancing experiences.
As a proud postgraduate alumnus of the Business School, Ralph has recently been a regular contributor to Board Room Exercises for the Business School’s MBA programme.
Having been a leading recruiter and head-hunter in the City for Executive roles for more than three decades, Ralph brings an extraordinary depth and breadth of professional experience to inform his guidance for current students.
Ralph’s dedication to Durham over the past 10 years or so has been exceptional.
He has proved to be an invaluable, dedicated and dependable friend of the University and to Hatfield.
Previous Dunelmensis Recipients

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved/current-opportunities:
There are lots of occasions throughout the year where our alumni are invaluable to support and welcome members of the community.
We are always so grateful for the time and effort that you give.
Keep an eye on this page to discover new and exciting volunteering opportunities for alumni and get in touch if you'd like to discuss something specific.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved/durham-days:
Formerly Dunelm Days, this week-long celebration was a series of events hosted by alumni, for alumni.
It's been ten years since the first event; the programme has gone from strength to strength.
Whether big or small, the events are characterised by one thing - a sense of pride in being part of Durham's global family.
Durham Days took place during Durham Global Week from Saturday 1 March – Sunday 9 March 2025 with alumni getting together in 41 cities across the world.
Durham Days provided a great opportunity to catch up with old friends, make new connections and re-live your time at Durham.
Huge thanks to all of our alumni volunteers for making Durham Days 2025 a success!
Durham Days (previously Dunelm Days) took place during Global Week in March 2025 and was a week-long celebration featuring a series of events hosted by alumni, for alumni.
Durham Days is a fantastic way to reconnect with old friends, build new relationships with alumni, take a trip down memory lane and renew your Durham pride.
It is always a global celebration, and this year was no exception.
A total of 41 events took place across 23 countries.
Huge thanks goes to our amazing alumni volunteers.
These events are only made possible thanks to their incredible support and dedication.
Our global community reaches far and wide and they are key to keeping it connected to Durham.
The theme for Global Week was ‘Culture – Connect – Community’ and our event hosts  organised a variety of activities for alumni to take part in including afternoon tea, film screenings, panel events and guest speaker sessions.
Highlights include a special film screening of ‘To be Continued’ and post film Q&A in Hong Kong and a guest speaker event in Oslo featuring John Tørres Thuv, CEO of Gyldendal Agency, who delivered a talk on Reading in a digital world , followed by a guided tour of the Gyldendal building, an architectural masterpiece designed by Sverre Fehn, winner of the Pritzker Architecture Prize, Prins Eugen-medaljen, and Jacobprisen.
“The event was a very nice experience and reminded me of the warm and welcoming atmosphere that Durham brings (even abroad!) The movie that they showed was very nice and thought provoking.
Also, the fact that they try to build a community even outside these events which takes place once a year is just fantastic.
A big thank you to the organiser, Nikos.” (Brussels Durham Days attendee)
“Every year, this special day reminds us why Durham holds such a cherished place in our hearts.
It was wonderful to reconnect with alumni, hear their incredible stories, and see how their journeys have evolved over time.
There’s something so special about reminiscing over shared experiences, reliving old memories, and creating new ones together.
The energy, warmth, and nostalgia in the air were truly unforgettable” (Lahore Durham Days host)
Toronto
Vienna
New York
Hong Kong
Barbados
Shenzhen
Islamabad
A short history of Dunelm - and now Durham - Days!

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved/2025-alumni-survey:
As a valued member of our alumni community, this summer, we invited you to have your say by completing our Global Alumni Survey.
Over the past decade, the world has changed dramatically, and we’ve faced many challenges together.
One of the biggest was the global pandemic, which reshaped how university communities connect.
Lockdowns disrupted the in-person events and shared moments that once brought us together, both in the UK and around the world.
But through it all, we adapted, grew, and learnt a great deal about ourselves and our communities.
Now, we’re looking ahead, and we asked for your help in shaping the next chapter of our alumni community.
By sharing your views, you’re helping us build a future that reflects what matters most to you.
You told us about your own Durham experience and how you’d like to engage with us in the years to come, and your insights will guide how we support your professional development and lifelong connection with Durham.
Your feedback will help Durham University better understand its alumni community and contribute to how the University plans and shapes future engagement with alumni.
Your survey responses are strictly confidential and will only be reported in the aggregate, unless you gave permission otherwise at the end of the survey.
Thank you to everyone who took part in the 2025 Alumni Survey.
With your support, we can continue to strengthen the Durham community for generations to come.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/giving:
Your support helps Durham to inspire the great minds and leaders of tomorrow.
By giving to Durham, your gift could fund new research or support students in their studies.
You could help refurbish some of our most well-known and unique heritage sites or build brand-new state-of-the-art facilities.
As a University, we are grateful for every donation we receive at any level.
Our Donor Impact Report has been created for donors and supporters of Durham University to celebrate their collective impact in the academic year 2023/24.
It showcases some of the exciting projects and programmes that have been made possible thanks to the generosity of our donor community.
This Policy covers the acceptance, recording, oversight, and reporting requirements related to all gifts received by the University.
This policy is a guide to prospective benefactors and members of the University community.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/giving/summer-appeal-2025:
Every student deserves the chance to thrive at university, not just survive.
Financial hardship should never hold back talent.
Right now, many face tough choices between essentials and education.
Your gift can ease that burden and help students focus on their studies.
Through alumni funded scholarships, your support provides more than money, it offers stability, dignity, and the chance to succeed.
Together, we can ensure every bright student has the opportunity to thrive at Durham.
Make a one-time gift today and help a student overcome financial barriers to succeed at Durham.
Monthly support creates lasting change, empowering students to succeed every step of the way.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/giving/make-a-gift:
At Durham, we believe that our students can change the world.
That’s why we’re committed to ensuring all students can fulfil their potential, regardless of their background.
By providing scholarships, grants and bursaries we can remove financial barriers and allow all students to benefit from everything Durham offers.
When you make a gift, you’ll help to support the brightest talents – no matter what challenges they face.
Your donation could help to:
You can choose to make a gift to a cause you care about below.
Or if you're happy for your gift to be used wherever it will make the most difference, you can give where the need is greatest .
We are so grateful for the gifts that we receive from our alumni and supporters.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/giving/legacies:
Making a will is a time for reflection about your personal legacy.
Including a gift to Durham in your will is a celebration of an institution you treasure and the people you have encountered here.
From scholarships to sports teams, your gift will mean a lot to the next generation.
Learn about the impact gifts in wills have on our students, our research, and much more.
Choose what to donate, the types of legacy gifts you can leave and the tax benefits of giving.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/giving/philanthropy:
Many of our transformative scholarships, ground-breaking research projects and estate improvements have been enabled by the generous support of our alumni and community of supporters.
The University is grateful for every donation, regardless of shape and size, but transformational gifts can make an even bigger impact on our students, research and community.
Whether you are looking to support scholarships, a specific area of research, your old college or department or something else, we would love to hear from you to discuss how you can make a difference at Durham.
If you are considering making a philanthropic gift to the University or would like to learn more, please speak to a member of our team.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/giving/campaign-board:
Under the leadership of Hild-Bede alumnus Guy Weldon, Durham University’s Campaign Board supports and encourages impactful philanthropic engagement with the University.
Guy Weldon was appointed Chair of the Campaign Board in 2022.
He read History at Durham and graduated from Hild Bede in 1989.
For more information on the work of each Campaign Board member, click on their profile.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/giving/telephone-appeal:
Our annual telephone appeal will run from 4 – 24 November for the Durham Future Fund.
The campaign calls are also a fantastic opportunity for our student callers to gain valuable advice and inspiration for the future.
The insight and career advice our alumni can offer students is greatly appreciated.
The Durham Future Fund provides bursaries and employability grants for students needing financial support.
Thanks to the generosity of our alumni and friends we can ensure that all students, irrespective of background or circumstances, can realise their potential.
Keep your eye out for a call from a phone number with an 0191 area code.
Our team of student callers will ring on weeknights between 6.30 pm and 9.30 pm, on Saturday between 10.00 am and 5.00 pm, and on Sunday between 2 pm and 8 pm.
If you’d like to request a call with one of our student callers, please email the Individual Giving team at annual.fund@durham.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/community:
The day you bag your Durham degree is a proud one, marking the culmination of your studies.
But your bond with Durham doesn't end there; you are now a valued member of our alumni community and as such, you will support and be supported by your fellow members - you are are a true advocate for student success.
Not only does it give you the opportunity to stay engaged, but it also allows you to help new and potential students.
With more than 200,000 alumni and supporters in our community, we are represented in more than thirty countries globally.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/community/a-global-community:
Chapters are at the heart of the global Durham network.
They are led by dedicated volunteers who give their time, expertise and resources to create an active global community and support the advancement of the University.
Chapters help you stay connected to Durham no matter where you are in the world.
Through events and activities held throughout the year, Chapters not only provide opportunities for you to meet and network with fellow alumni, but also support your lifelong learning and development.
Chapters are a welcoming group of alumni and supporters who share a passion for Durham and other areas of interests.
This can range from geographic location, industry, academic or other area of interest.
Whether you have recently moved to a new country and want practical advice on living there or want to network with like-minded people who work in the same job sector as you, our friendly network of Chapters will always be happy to hear from you!
If you want to connect with your local chapter, or are interested in setting up a Chapter, we’d love to hear from you.
Get in touch at alumni.volunteer@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/community/welcome-new-alumni:
You did it!
You are graduating from Durham.
You've worked so hard for this moment...
so what now?
The good news is that your journey with Durham isn't over.
Every student who graduates then becomes a member of our global alumni community.
The community is made up of over 230,000 Durham graduates, just like you – friends and colleagues with a common bond and shared Durham experience who meet, socialise, network, and support each other in their lives and careers, wherever they may be in the world.
Whether you finished your time at Durham 5 days ago or 5 decades ago, you will always be welcomed as part of our alumni community.
Keep up to date with alumni news.
There are lots of ways you can keep in touch and get involved with us now you are alumni
What's your favourite memory of congregation?
Read and watch some fond memories from other alumni.
We ask graduates to write and pin their favourite memory from their time at Durham at congregation and this forms our digital memory book - can you spot yours?

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/community/class-notes:
We continue to be inspired by our alumni.
Each month, we highlight a selection of your achievements to share with our community.
Explore by month:
Back to top
Rebecca Daniel (Biological Sciences, St Mary’s College, 2014-2017) has been selected as one of only five people to join a unique marine research expedition in Tonga, led by Arksen charity '10% for the Ocean'.
Rebecca has spent the last 8 years working toward a sustainable future for the ocean through The Marine Diaries, the charity that she co-founded in 2017, so this expedition is a dream come true for her - a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to bring together her scientific knowledge and storytelling skills – and to contribute to vital marine research, connect with local ocean communities and inspire action.
Read more Tim Atkin (French, University College, 1980-1984) has been featured in an article in Wine Industry Advisor , where he mentions that his career began when his potential employer recognised the value of his journalism work at University alongside his French degree.
Jonathan Berry, 5th Viscount Camrose (French and German, St Cuthbert's Society, 1989-1993) , Shadow Minister for AI and Intellectual Property in the House of Lords, has been appointed as an Adviser to ConquerAI .
Professor Sue Black OBE from our Department of Computer Science has been named on the top 50 shortlist for Computer Weekly’s Most Influential Person in UK technology 2025.
Hendrik Dey (Classics, Graduate Society, 1999-2000) has received the prestigious Premio Daria Borghese for 'The Making of Medieval Rome: A New Profile of the City, 400 - 1420'.
The award is given annually to the best book on Rome written by a non-Italian.
Lucy Foley (English Literature, Grey College, 2005-2008) has released her latest Sunday Times Bestseller, ‘ The Midnight Feast ’ .
The murder mystery thriller is her sixth novel and has been described as ‘ Agatha Christie meets The White Lotus ’.
Glyn Gowans (Law, Hatfield College, 1972-1975) has had a busy summer, releasing his second and third of three satirical novels in July.
' Infernal Paradise ' is set a few years in the future in Mallorca.
His third publication, 'Cut From The Same Cloth', came out in August and focuses on wine fraud in Bordeaux.
Sophie Jones-Tinsley (MA in Education, University College, 2017-2018) has published her first children's book, ' Gugglewump: A day in the life of an archaeologist' .
which explores archaeology as a career, and the words associated with it.
Sophie plans to release further books in the series on different career pathways.
Emily Kilner (Modern Languages, University College 2016-2020) has been featured in The Padel Paper following her select ion as one of two winners of the BBC Sport New Voices competition .
She has since been heard commentating on major sporting events like Wimbledon .
Her experience is in commentating on popular new sport, padel, and her goal is to cover sport on radio station 5 Live.
Toby Martinez las Rivas (Archaeology & History, Grey College, 1996-1999) was highlighted in Faber's Poem of the Week in May.
The publishing house featured 'Night' from his poetry collection 'Floodmeadow'.
Peter Massam (French and Russian, College of St Hild and St Bede, 1976-1980) has penned a series of three books entitled ' Letters from Gilgil '.
The trilogy reconstructs airmail letters back home from abroad and track a two year journey of living, working, and being immersed in Kenya.
All proceeds from sales of the three books go to Kenyan charity, Restart Africa, which helps disadvantaged children.
Peter has authored a total of nine books.
Stephen Murphy (Inst.
of European Studies, University College, 1975-1976) has released his latest legal thriller ‘Beneath the Gavel’ , a tale of mystery about loyalty, legacy, and the impossible choices we make when the law hits home.
Stephen is a judge in the San Francisco Superior Court and an accomplished author known for gripping legal thrillers.
Dr Jerome Ng (MBA, Hatfield College, MBA, 2019–2021) has been announced as a 2025 Fulbright New Zealand Scholar .
He will research how health systems achieve and deliver high quality healthcare and outcomes at Harvard Medical School.
He is currently Clinical Director: Clinical Governance at Health New Zealand | Te Whatu Ora - Counties Manukau and Honorary Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland.
Maxine Roper (Sociology, College of St Hild and St Bede, 2003-2006) published ' No Heels, No Problem: A Neurodivergent Survival Guide to Adult Life When You are Dyspraxic or ADHD ' in August.
Maxine draws on personal experiences to help support those on their own neurodiversity journeys.
Lindsay de Sausmarez (English Literature, St Aidan’s College, 1996-1999) has been appointed Guernsey’s first female Chief Minister as she became President of the Policy and Resources Committee.
James Stewart (Theology, St John's College, Cranmer Hall, 1996-1999) performed in Jean Anouilh's 'Antigone' in the 2025 Edinburgh Fringe with group Mythography.
He also runs walking tours in Edinburgh, blending history, architecture, spirituality, and darker stories.
Hannah Brennan (English Literature, College of St Hild and St Bede, 2011-2014) has published the first in a series of three novels, No Safe Place , with Avon HarperCollins.
The book is influenced by a play I wrote while studying at Durham, which was performed at The Assembly Rooms.
Humphrey Dobson (Music, Grey College, 1997-2000) has published his first book: Music to the Glory of God .
Caroline Harvey (Psychology, St Mary’s College, 2004-2007) has recently written and published a devotional book designed to encourage and equip people to be the person they were created to be and living fully in their destiny.
It is called 'Walk with God and Hear His Voice Every Day'
Matt Jaworski (Van Mildert College, Law 2017–2020) and Katherine Keddie (Grey College, Politics 2017–2020) have had their Durham-founded climate-tech marketing agency, Adopter, recognised three awards at the 2025 Student Employee of the Year (SEOTY) Awards, including Employer of the Year.
Marcus Paul (Combined Arts, St John’s College, 1970-1973) will be releasing his fourth book in August.
He has edited and contributed to a collection of essays by international scholars, with a Preface by Sir Niall Ferguson, entitled John Buchan Reconsidered: Thirty-Nine Years of War and Peace 1901-1940
Sijie Tan (Finance, College of St.
Hild and St.
Bede, 2019-2022) has been awarded a Royal Geographical Society (with IBG) Postgraduate Research Award in recognition of Sijie’s ongoing research.
Sarah Elliott (Combined Social Sciences, St Chad's College, 2000-2003) , has been appointed new Chief Executive of housing and homelessness charity Shelter.
She will take up her post in September 2025.
Dr Paul Hawkins OBE (BSc in Natural Sciences, 1993-1996; PhD in Computer Science, 1996-2000, Grey College) , inventor of 'HawkEye' technology widely used in cricket, tennis, football and many other sports, talks to the Sporting Witness podcast from the BBC.
He discusses the origins of his idea, the technology and more.
Nish Kumar (English & History, Grey College, 2004-2007) is interviewed about his career path into comedy , drawing on his experiences at Durham and the opportunites that provided to go to the Edinburgh Fringe.
Debtanu Das (Finance and Investment, Ustinov College, 2022-2023) and Trang Phan (Finance and Investment, Ustinov College, 2022-2023) have co-founded web3-based fantasy sports platform Twelvth.
UK business news site BusinessLive has conducted an interview with Debtanu to profile the company.
Twelvth allows users to build virtual sports teams and trade player stocks to build a virtual portfolio.
Its goal is to bring new dimensions to fantasy sports by blending gaming with decentralised finance.
It was launched by Debtanu and co-founder Trang Phan in the North East of England in 2024.
"My focus in on launching and growing Twelvth, turning it into a market leader.
The challenge of building a business, bringing people together, and seeing an idea come to life is what excites me the most." (Debtanu Das)
Image: Debtanu Das (left) with co-founder Trang Phan
Claire Bacon née Simpson (Management, Spanish and French, St Aidan's College, 2002-2006 ) has taken up the position of Chief Transformation Office at Alliance Pharmaceuticals.
She was previously Head of Reckitt's Group Transformation Office, where she governed the company's transformation investment programme.
Prof Dr Hamit Ersoy (PhD in Middle East Studies, Graduate Society, 1990-1994) continues in his position as Ambassador in the Embassy of Turkey in Brunei Darusssalam.
He also lectures on International Relations, Turkish Foreign Policy, Human Rights and Democracy and other subjects at Istanbul Sabahattin Zaim University.
Oliver Knowles (Politics, University College, 1995-1998) has released new book ' Led By Donkeys: Adventures in Art, Activism and Accountability ', which looks back at the past six years of the project of the same name that Oliver founded in 2019 with four friends.
Hannah Thomas (History and Arabic, University College, 2011-2015 ) is the recipient of a Christopher Award for her book 'Tears of Gold: Portraits of Yazidi, Rohingya, and Nigerian Women'.
The Awards celebrate authors, illustrators, writers, producers, and directors whose work affirms the highest values of the human spirit.
Hannah's book presents portrait paintings of Yazidi women who escaped ISIS captivity, Rohingya women who fled violence in Myanmar, and Nigerian women who survived Boko Haram violence, alongside their own words, stories, and self-portraits.
Watch a video of Hannah discussing 'Tears of Gold' on our YouTube channel.
Congratulations to Egypt-based alumna Ahella El Saban (MA in Marketing, 2010-2012) , who has featured in Forbes Middle East's 100 Most Powerful Businesswomen 2025 with company Exits MENA.
Ahella cofounded boutique investment advisory firm Exits MENA in 2022 and currently serves as its Vice Executive Chairman.
The company specialises in transactional advisory, management, and financial consultancy, working closely with startups and SMEs across the Middle East and North Africa region, guiding them through mergers and acquisitions, fundraising, and strategic growth.
The company focuses closely on investment readiness, designing and delivering structured programmes to help businesses become investor-ready, enhance their financial positioning, and open new opportunities.
In September 2024, Exits MENA launched the NAQLA programme, an Arabic-language self-study course on investment language, in partnership with Google MENA and EYouth.
In the same month, Ahella was elected a Women Techmakers Ambassador, and she is also the founder of Lumas, a market research and training company.
"It is an honour to be part of the list that holds such accomplished and inspirational females."
-Ahella El Saban
Melissa Bryant (Politics, Ustinov College, 2013-2014) has taken up a prestigious role with World Bank Group.
She becomes Communications Lead for the Bank's Environment Global Department and will help to shape global discourse on environmental sustainability.
Dr Helen Frisby (Theology, St Mary's College, 1997-2000) has co-edited new book ' Death and Institutions: Processes, Places and the Past ' in her capacity as a Visiting Research Fellow at the Centre for Death & Society.
This collection combines chapters on process, place and teh past to examine the relationships within and between institutions, institutionalisation and death in international contexts.
Dr Michael Garbutt (English Language and Literature, Hatfield College, 1973-1976) has published his latest book, ' The Nomadic Image: Explorations at the intersections of art, science, and culture ', which brings together papers originally presented at The Nomadic Image, the seventh edition of the Transdisciplinary Imaging Conference series, held at the University of Central Asia’s Naryn campus.
Michael is also founder and co-chair of one of Central Asia’s most important film and cultural festivals, Nomad 24: The Infinite Sky , held in Kyrgyzstan.
Glyn Gowans (Law, Hatfield College, 1972-1975) is in the process of releasing three satirical novels.
The first, ' Gloria!
Gloria!
' is an Anglo-American satire in which corporate warfare brings two billionaires and their dysfunctional adolescent children to the Mediterranean island of Formentera, where dramatic events transform their lives.
One of the key characters, Caroline Weetwood, is a Durham History undergraduate with a boyfriend at Hatfield College.
Rupert Hague-Holmes (Law & Politics, University College, 1984-1987) has recently published biography ' The Soldiers' General '.
It focuses on Lieutenant General Sir George Lea, who played a significant role in the Malayan Emergency in the mid-1950s in World War II.
Dr Asha Hornsby (MA in English Literary Studies, St John's College, 2014-2015) has penned her first monograph, ' Vivisection and Late-Victorian Literary Culture ' with Cambridge University Press.
Representing the first interdisciplinary literary-critical study of vivisection, this publication reveals how animal experimentation intrigued diverse writers, raised major representational issues, and seeped into the heart of nineteenth-century culture.
Richard Ovenden OBE FRSA (Economic/Modern History, St Chad's College, 1982-1985) has seen Oxford's Bodleian Libraries endowment triple during his time at the head of the institution.
A recent endowment in March also secures his tenure as the most senior role at the Bodleian, with a title change to 'Bodley's Librarian and the Helen Hamlyn Director of the University Libraries'.
Kiran Ruparelia (Accounting & Finance, John Snow College, 2014-2018) has been awarded the TPE 1st Prize for his exam performance in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland's Test of Professional Expertise exam.
He will be recognised for his outstanding achievement at a dinner in Edinburgh.
The Durham Alumni chess team scored a convincing win against Birmingham University at the start of March with a 6-2 scoreline, to reach the top 10 in the World Chess League.
After winning the game, the team are positioned in joint 6th with a good chance of qualifying for playoffs to determine the championships over the summer.
The team featured: National Master Sam Walker (History, University College, 2013-17), Phil Purcell (Natural Sciences, St Cuthbert's Society, 2013-16), Will Taylor (Natural Sciences, College of St Hild & St Bede, 2008-12), Phil Manning (Sociology, Van Mildert College, 1982-84), and team captain Peter Hornsby (BA in Combined Social Sciences, 2013-16; MSc in Management Studies, 2016-18, St Cuthbert's Society).
Our Durham alumni community spans all four corners of the globe, so chances are that you won't be too far away from another Durham graduate!
This is something that alumna Sophie Harper experienced recently in South America:
" On an adventure ship going around Cape Horn, we found out that six out of around ten Brits on the boat were Durham graduates!
An adventurous spirit had drawn us all there and we shared memories of Durham, as well as zodiac trips to see penguins and to experience the privilege of standing at the end of the world."
Pictured (left-right):
- Charlie Ralli - Electronic & Electrical Engineering, Van Mildert College, 2017-2021
- Rev'd James Lawrence - Theology, St John's College, 1982-1985
- Sophie Harper - Anthropology & Psychology, St John's College, 1982-1985
- Cathryn Arnold née Lilley - Natural Sciences, Van Mildert College, 1984-1987
- Ken Arnold - MBA, Graduate Society, 1994-1995
- Ellie Revill - Anthropology, Van Mildert College, 2016-2019
James Davis (MBA, 2004-2007) releases ' The Midlife Male Handbook: A Man's Guide to Thriving Through Andropause ', on Wednesday 12 March to demystify and tackle the stigma around men's health at midlife.
Since he graduated, James has enjoyed a varied career across media brands before moving into coaching psychology and founding The Midlife Mentors .
Daniel Fitzpatrick (BA in Theology & Ministry, 2005-09; MA in Theology & Ministry, 2010-2012, Ushaw College) has penned new book ' Infinite Education: The Four-Step Strategy for Leading Change in the Age of Artificial Intelligence ', which explores the seismic shifts transforming education in the era of AI.
Dr Michele Fontefrancesco (PhD in Anthropology, Ustinov College, 2008-2012) has penned new volume, ' Rural Effective Economies '.
The work investigates the precarious socio-economic condition of rural communities in Europe (specifically Italy), and the role traditional products ( specifically food products), have in recreating the sense of community and place and paving the way for future local development.
Ben Robbins (English Literature, Hatfield College, 2002-2005) has written ' Faulkner's Hollywood Novels: Women Between Page and Screen ' with the University of Virginia Press.
He examines Hollywood screenwriter William Faulkner's influence on his literary craft and depictions of women, revealing a dialogue between the author's fiction and screenwriting over two decades.
Awais Khan (Management Studies, 2010-2013) has featured in an interview with Forbes magazine following the publication of his fourth novel.
'In the Shadows of Love' was released in the UK to critical acclaim with a launch party at the Islington branch of nationwide UK book retailer Waterstones.
Dr Victoria Walsh née Battell (BA in Sociology, St Aidan's College, 1997-2000; MA in Criminal Justice Studies, Graduate Society, 2000-2001) has taken up the position of Provost and Senior Vice President of Academic and Student Affairs at Columbia-Greene College, New York.
The Rt Hon Sir Edward Leigh MP (History, University College, 1972-1983) , pictured left, won the Parliament Lifetime Achievement Award :
“This is a delightful honour.
I am very touched and it’s always nice to be appreciated.
But there is still more to be done so we’d better keep going!”
Peter Hornsby (BA in Combined Social Sciences, 2013-2016; MSc in Management Studies, 2016-2018, St Cuthbert's Society), pictured right, was also awarded the Parliamentary Staffer of the Year Award.
“It was an immense honour to have been nominated for this award, let alone being the winning recipient.
Parliamentary staffers work extremely hard, so it is great that their efforts are recognized."
Peter also captains the Durham Alumni chess team, who were joint top of the World Chess League in January.
The club meets for in-person tournaments and events and are always ready to welcome new members.
If you are interested, please contact Peter .
Staycie Domzalski (Education, University College, 2017-2018) has received the Asia Europe Foundation (ASEF) Pearl Award alongside her team, the AI-Teach-nicians.
This award recognises outstanding Innovative Teaching Practice in a pan-Asian-European school collaboration.
Staycie and team were presented the award for a project focusing on creating an easily scalable open resource for school pupils to learn with and about AI using Problem-Based Learning to address global challenges and equip students with future-ready skills.
Dr Ian Robert Gomersall (Physics, Van Mildert College, 1969-1972) has written his first book - ' Worthwhile Wealth: an entrepreneur's guide to success that satisfies ', focusing on entrepreneurs who wish to create worthwhile lives as well as profitable businesses.
Since his time at Durham, Bob has created multiple education and healthcare technology companies, including Surpass Assessment , which is celebrating its 40th anniversary next year.
Patricia McGarrahan (MA in Archaeology, Ustinov College, 2013-2015) has published her debut fiction thiller novel ' Saint of Lost Souls ' as a paperback and e-book.
The story follows protagonist Kate Barrow, as she pursues the truth following a colleague's death.
Antonios Tsalikis (MA in International Relations (Middle East), Ustinov College, 2019-2020) co-authored an article entitled ' Debating the Yemen Conflict: Toward a Synthesis of Debates and Diverse Perspectives on Causes and Actors ', which has been published in the Digest of Middle East Studies.
Dr Anthony Wells (BA in Modern European History, 1962-1965; MA in History, 1965-1969, St Cuthbert’s Society) has published two new books - ' Never Too Late: A Story for Every Family and Young Person ' and ' The Pursuit of Peace and Freedom 1939-2025 '.
Dr Nussaibah Younis (MSc in Arab World Studies, 2008-2011; PhD in Government & International Affairs, 2011-2014, Ustinov College) releases her debut novel this month.
' Fundamentally ' is a dark comedy about a heartbroken academic who accepts a UN job in Baghdad, where she is tasked with deradicalising ISIS brides.
The TV rights have also been purchased by Boffola Pictures.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/community/online-community-platform:
We’ve upgraded our online alumni platform to offer a smoother, more modern experience.
Updating your details and accessing your exclusive alumni benefits is now easier and more convenient than ever.
An invitation to access the portal will be sent to your email shortly.
Even more features will be added over time, so stay connected!
If you have any questions or need help, please don't hesitate to contact us .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/thank-you:
It showcases some of the exciting projects and programmes that have been made possible due to your generosity.
Your gifts have transformed buildings, supported world-leading research and enabled students to discover their full potential.
Read more about donor-funded projects by clicking below.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/thank-you/supporting-our-students:
At Durham University, we believe that every student deserves the opportunity to succeed, regardless of their background.
Your generosity helps us make that vision a reality.
With your help, we can support students from underrepresented backgrounds through scholarships and bursaries.
This support is often life-changing, enabling talented individuals to pursue their studies and make the most of all that a Durham education has to offer.
By supporting our students, you are not only investing in their future, but you are also helping to shape a more inclusive and empowered academic community.
Thanks to the generosity of our global community of donors, we are able to provide transformative scholarships to exceptional students who might otherwise be unable to pursue their dreams of a Durham education due to reasons out of their control.
Our donor-funded scholarships open doors for talented students from low-income households and under-represented backgrounds, while also celebrating excellence in music, theatre, sport.
We also offer scholarships to those who exhibit global achievement through a range of international awards, thanks to donor funding.
Our scholars are at the heart of our vibrant University community — they lead, create, inspire, and enrich every corner of collegiate life.
Your support doesn’t just fund education; it empowers the next generation to rise, thrive, and give back with purpose and pride.
Your contributions go far beyond tuition fees.
They open doors to leadership programmes, research opportunities, mentorship, and community outreach initiatives.
Scholarships make Durham not just accessible but exceptional for those who receive them.
In a world that needs compassionate leaders and creative problem-solvers more than ever, investing in scholarships is an investment in all our futures.
Together, we can do more.
With your help, we can ensure that more students can unlock their potential.
When you make a gift to support Durham students, you’ll help to enable our students, no matter their circumstances, to realise their potential.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/thank-you/advancing-ground-breaking-research:
At Durham University, research isn’t just about discovery, it’s about making a difference.
From improving global health and shaping public policy, to transforming business practices and reviving lost cultural heritage, our research is having a tangible impact on lives and communities around the world.
This vital work is made possible, in part, by the generosity of our alumni and supporters.
Philanthropic funding helps us attract world-leading researchers, invest in cutting-edge facilities, and support the next generation of academic talent.
It fuels ambitious projects that tackle society’s greatest challenges and empowers us to explore new frontiers of knowledge.
Whether it’s uncovering hidden histories through ancient manuscripts, driving innovation in renewable energy, or helping rewrite laws to protect the vulnerable, your support is a catalyst for meaningful change.
Together, we are shaping a better, fairer, and more informed world.
Philanthropic gifts have been instrumental in founding the Institute of Hazard, Risk and Resilience (IHRR).
The institute conducts interdisciplinary research to mitigate the effects of natural disasters, enhancing community resilience globally.
Donations have bolstered research at the Durham Energy Institute, focusing on sustainable energy solutions.
Projects include developing renewable energy technologies and improving energy access, contributing to global efforts against climate change.
Read more about the global impact of research at Durham University
Your gifts have supported world-leading research, created inspiring environments and enabled students to reach their potential.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/thank-you/celebrating-your-giving:
Thank you to all our kind donors who have given to the University.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/thank-you/enriching-the-student-experience:
At Durham University, the student experience is shaped not only by our distinctive collegiate system and our world-class facilities, but also by the generosity and commitment of our alumni and supporters.
Thanks to you, students continue to benefit from a rich and diverse array of opportunities beyond the classroom.
From college life to university-wide societies, volunteering projects, music, theatre and sport, there’s something for every interest, and every student is encouraged to get involved, grow, and make their mark.
Your support helps provide world-class facilities, nurture talent, and ensure every student can participate fully, regardless of background.
It funds bursaries that enable international volunteering, refurbishes essential equipment for student clubs and societies, and sustains the vibrant, welcoming community that makes Durham so special.
Many of our alumni look back on their own Durham experience with great fondness.
By giving back, you’re helping today’s students create memories just as meaningful and futures just as bright.
Thank you for enriching the Durham journey for generations to come.
Click here to learn about how legacy giving has helped unlock the potential of Durham University Sailing Club.
Donor funding has made possible the redevelopment of the Fellows’ Garden at University College.
Learn more about this space.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events:
Our global community often hit the headlines.
Check out in-person events local to you - or have a browse through our online events, there's something for everyone.
We look forward to catching up with you soon.
Read the latest issues of the Durham University alumni magazine online.
The magazine is published annually.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/events:
Join us in Shanghai to celebrate 60 years of Durham University Business School
7:00 PM - 9:30 PM
The Westin Hotel
Bund Center
88 Henan Central Road
Shanghai
China
200002
Join us in Shenzhen to celebrate 60 years of Durham University Business School.
11 September 2025
6:30 PM - 9:00 PM
Four Seasons Hotel
138 Fuhua Third Road
Futian District
Shenzhen
Guangdong 518048 
China
All Hatfielders are warmly invited to return to their beloved College for a weekend of celebration.
12 September 2025 - 14 September 2025
2:00 PM - 10:00 AM
Hatfield College
Join us to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Department of Engineering.
13 September 2025
2:00 PM - 9:00 PM
Department of Engineering, 
South Road, 
Durham,
DH1 3LE
Join us in Beijing to celebrate 60 years of Durham University Business School
Four Seasons Hotel
48 Liang Ma Qiao Road
100125 
Chaoyang District
Beijing
China
Join us in Durham for the annual MBA conference 2025
22 September 2025
10:00 AM - 6:00 PM
Durham University Business School
The Waterside Building
Riverside Place
Durham
DH1 1SL
Join us in Victoria, London at the offices of our friends at Qube-RT for an evening of networking, meeting old friends and new, as part of our vibrant community uniting all those with a passion for innovation and enterprise.
25 September 2025
6:30 PM - 9:30 PM
Qube Research & Technologies, 9 Bressenden Place, London, SW1E 5BY, UK
Durham University alumni and friends are warmly invited to join the Ottawa Alumni Chapter for an informal gathering in Montreal.
11 October 2025
8:00 PM - 10:00 PM
BreWskey Taproom, 385 Rue de la Commune E, Montreal, QC H2Y 1H2
***SOLD OUT*** The Dunelm Society invites you to attend their annual dinner in London.
15 October 2025
7:00 PM - 11:00 PM
The Athenaeum Club, 107 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ER

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/dunelm-magazine:
Issue 10 - 2024
Research with a lasting impact Improving our understanding and transforming lives
A network for life Building a community of scholars
A second chance- or good business sense?
A fresh approach to prison reform
Static pdf
Issue 09 - 2023
Welcome to our new Chancellor, Dr Fiona Hill Acclaimed foreign affairs specialist and authority on Russia and European geopolitics, has been installed as our new Chancellor
Research to empower and inspire We conduct innovative and impactful research to transform lives and make a difference, globally and locally.
A look at our positively thriving environment!
Our resident animals and global commitment
Issue 08-2022
Inspiring the Great Journalistic Minds & Leaders of Tomorrow The Sir Harry Evans Memorial Fund.
Celebrating County Durham’s Cultural Heritage Forging strong relationships through our support of the bid for the City of Culture 2025.
Celebrating the Return of Congregation Ceremonies Congratulations to all our graduating students in the first ceremony for over two years.
Issue 07-2021
Astronomy and Cosmology - Improving Life on Earth Celebrating the success of Durham University in Astronomy and Cosmology.
Durham’s Olympic Successes A record-breaking eight Durham University students welcomed home.
Ruth First in the North The 40th anniversary of the assassination of Ruth First, the anti-apartheid activist and Durham University lecturer.
Issue 06 - 2020
Covid-19 Detection Dogs Trial Durham’s research on specially-trained bio-detections dogs.
Durham’s Olympic Hopefuls & Supporting Women in Sport New dates for the Tokyo Olympic Games.
How training at Durham helped a pioneer in women’s sport.
Supporting Local Students Bringing Durham’s education within reach.
South African Scholars Ruth First Scholarship.
Issue 05 - 2019
Ocean Wang and Smiti Kumar Meet two of our star ambassadors.
Sue Flood and Pat Morton Stories from two of our alumnae.
Inspiring the Extraordinary Looking forward to our newest sports facilities and continued success.
Action on Natural Disasters Appeal How your support has made a difference.
Issue 04 - 2018
Coach Annie Breaks Football Glass Ceiling Interview with alumna Annie Zaidi.
Women in Tech The Anne-Marie Imafidon Scholarships for Women in Technology.
Smiti Brings Her Marketing Flair to Dunelm USA Interview with alumna and President of Dunelm USA, Smiti Kumar.
Australian of the Year Durham alumna, Professor Michelle Simmons, making it big Down Under.
Issue 03 - 2017
Survey Feedback What you said in our 150 Alumni Survey last year.
150th Anniversary Celebrations Report What happened in the 150th year of alumni support in 2016.
University Strategy 2017-27 The start of a 10-year plan for Durham.
Saving Primates Durham research on helping endangered animals.
Issue 02 - 2016
Bodies Found Under Palace Green Durham’s Archaeological Dig.
What To Do If You’re Hearing Voices Three Myths Busted.
Big Events for the Anniversary How To Join In.
New Leadership for the University What It Means For The Future of Durham.
Issue 01 -  2016
The First Woman Bishop in the Church of England A Durham Alumna.
What the Colleges Mean To Me Chair of Council Reflects.
Professor Joe Elliott On the Dyslexia Debate.
Top 100 in the Times Higher Education World Reputation Review rankings 2015.
The Times and The Sunday Times Sports University of the Year 2015.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/newswire:
Read the latest issues of Newswire, our alumni newsletter.
Sent most months of the year, Newswire provides a round-up of articles to keep readers up-to-date with the latest Durham happenings, celebrate alumni achievements and share highlights from Colleges, Departments and Societies.
Use the links below to jump straight to specific editions or explore older issues in our archive:
World top 100 every year since 2010
His Majesty The King's Birthday Honours list 2025
Our Chancellor discusses US global leadership
>> Read the July 2025 issue
Alumni return to help our Rugby Club mark 150 years
On the historic appointment of Pope Leo XIV
UK Prime Minister leads tributes to Durham alumnus
>> Read the June 2025 issue
King and Queen attend historic Royal Maundy Service in Durham
The new home of our Business School officially opens
Discover the secrets of the stolen Shakespeare First Folio
>> Read the May 2025 issue
Engaging students as drivers of change
Northern Lights A Cappella hat-trick at UK ICCA
Uniting Durham alumni around the world
>> Read the April 2025 issue
Chancellor launches scholarship to widen access to a Durham education
Our ambitious plan for a more inclusive Durham
A spotlight on our innovative Transformative Humanities programme
>> Read the March 2025 issue
His Majesty The King’s New Year Honours
Honorary Graduates at Congregation
Alumni superteam triumph in University Challenge
>> Read the February 2025 issue

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/the-hub:
Take a look at The Hub, our home for articles, profiles and stories about our amazing alumni community.
Choose one of the topics below:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/the-hub/my-durham-story:
Read our alumni stories from reminiscing about college life, to where they are now.
Back to the Hub
If you would like to share your own story, please fill this form .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/the-hub/professional-development:
Expand your professional horizon through experiences or advice from our community.
Back to The Hub

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/the-hub/scholarships:
Scholarships and bursaries help students from all backgrounds to fully experience what Durham has to offer, and this is made possible in part by our alumni community.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/the-hub/entrepreneurship:
Meet some of our inspirational alumni who are creating innovative and ambitious startups that positively impact the world.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/the-hub/sport:
Keep up to date with all things Team Durham and celebrate the success of our alumni athletes Back to The Hub

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/the-hub/community:
Your bond with Durham doesn't end when you graduate, you are now a valued member of our alumni community.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-services:
Please select one of alumni services below:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/careers-employability-enterprise/after-graduation:
Find out how Careers & Enterprise supports graduates and how you can engage with our current students.
Durham University PhD and MRes graduates can access resources and support from Careers & Enterprise.
Please register as a graduate on CareersConnect using your personal, rather than University email address.
To book a 1:1 appointment with our Postgraduate Research Careers Adviser, please contact us to arrange.
To access our support and resources, you'll need to register as a graduate user.
You can do this through CareersConnect .
Please register with your personal, rather than University email address.
If you have any problems with your registration, please contact us .
We offer in-person and online appointments with our Careers Advisers where you can discuss your career plans, get feedback on applications and CVs, assessment centre and interview support, or discuss any other careers related questions you have.
If you would like to make an appointment, please contact us to check availability.
If you're interested in setting up your own business or being self-employed, you can access our specialist start-up support services .
This includes start-up coaching sessions, workshops, funding opportunities, competitions, and networking events.
Our Durham Venture School programme offers stipends, investment opportunities and mentoring.
As a graduate, you can still attend our programme of on-campus and virtual careers and employer events.
You can search and sign up for events on CareersConnect .
Our online resources and digital learning tools provide comprehensive information and e-learning activities to support your career planning and applications, as well as access to vacancies and events.
Through CareersConnect you can:
Other resources:
Researching the career destinations of recent graduates can be useful for current, and prospective students, helping them make informed choices about what they can do with their degree.
Six months after graduation you'll be contacted by the Careers & Enterprise Centre to complete the Durham Institutional Destination Survey.
Fifteen months after graduation you will be contacted by HESA to ask you to complete the Graduate Outcomes Survey .
This is a national survey capturing the perspectives and current status of graduates.
Please complete these surveys, to help support current and future students.
If you would like to share your experience and an insight into your career with current students, we welcome offers from alumni wishing to take part in careers events.
If your employer would like to recruit Durham students and graduates for work experience, placements, or graduate roles, please get in touch with our Employer Services Team.
If you live in the UK, you can also access careers advice, guidance and information from the following organisations:
You can also try contacting your local university careers service to see if you are able to access their events and recruitment fairs.
Our DU Regional Information Guides have information on regional resources and networks.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-services/diploma-supplement:
The University has adopted a credit framework for its taught programmes in line with its own mission and definition of standards and taking into account as points of reference the QAA Framework for Higher Education Qualifications and the Credit Guidelines issued by the Credit Consortia.
The Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education.
The University publishes module learning outcomes on its website.
Modular learning outcomes can be accessed from the module outlines found in the Undergraduate Faculty Handbook and Postgraduate Modules webpages .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-services/official-documents:
If you are a current or former student needing your student status/qualification verified, we offer the following services.
A transcript is an official hard copy of your academic record.
It is prepared on bespoke transcript paper and is issued by the University of Durham.
If you attended prior to 2005, your records will be collated manually.
Although we always endeavour to locate all information required for a transcript, it is not always possible.
Student Registry will contact you in this instance.
We can provide a PDF transcript which is an official copy of your academic record.
This is a digital document which is sent by email.
For further support, email transcripts.parchments@durham.ac.uk
If your parchment is lost, stolen or damaged, you can order a replacement.
Parchment is the word which the University uses to mean your certificate.
Your parchment is an official document which proves that you have a University of Durham qualification which includes: undergraduate degrees, postgraduate degrees, certificates and diplomas of higher education.
Only one copy of your parchment may be in existence at any one time.
If you require further assistance, contact transcripts.parchments@durham.ac.uk .
A Confirmation of award letter will confirm the successful completion of your course, dates of attendance and qualification obtained.
If you are 'awaiting graduation', the letter will also include a statement of when you will receive your award.
For any support, contact student.registry@durham.ac.uk .
If you need your degree parchment officially certified, you can upload a photocopy or scan of your degree parchment, and we will stamp and verify it as a true copy of the original.
This service is also available for transcripts.
All official documents provided will be signed and stamped with the official university stamp and can be posted or collected from the Student Services desk in the Palatine Centre.
For additional guidance on this process, contact transcripts.parchments@durham.ac.uk.
If you require an official document to be sent to WES (World Education Services) please include your WES reference number in your order.
Documents will be sent digitally via their secure portal.
For any additional support, contact student.registry@durham.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-services/verification-request:
Need help with a verification request?
All former student verifications are undertaken by the Higher Education Degree Datacheck (HEDD) online verification service for employers and agencies to verify University of Durham awards.
Please note that this service is only for third parties.
The online candidate verification service allows registered enquirers to input data provided by applicants (name, date of birth, institution, year of graduation, qualification classification etc).
To make an enquiry you need to register with HEDD .
Select ‘University of Durham’ from the list of UK higher education institutions and choose the option to 'verify a degree award'.
There is a charge of £14 per enquiry.
If you require further assistance, please email HEDD .
You will also be required to upload a consent form.
You’ll need the individual’s name, date of birth, course and qualification.
For graduates you'll also need their year of graduation and degree result.
If you require dates of attendance, please request this at the time of making the enquiry.
We recommend that you ask to see the degree certificate if there is one, and use that as the basis of your verification enquiry, or ask individuals to give you their data as they believe it’s recorded in the student records system.
If the information submitted is an exact match to the information held within the student record, your request will be verified more quickly.
If the information does not match all fields, then the enquiry will go to the team at Durham for manual verification, with an eight working-day turnaround time.
Student Registry are able to provide verifications for current students.
This may be required, for example, by a prospective employer or another academic institution.
The request must be made in writing and must include the signed consent from the student enabling us to release this information to your organisation or it will not be processed.
We aim to provide a response to correctly submitted requests within 10 working days.
Requests must include the below information, which can be copied and pasted.
Alternatively, the below form can be completed and submitted.
Requests can be sent to: verification.requests@durham.ac.uk
Please ensure signed consent is attached to the request or it cannot be processed.
Family Name (Surname Name): First names: Date of Birth: Qualification student is studying towards: Subject Studying:
The data will be processed by the Student Services Team of Durham University and used for the verification of degrees and dates of attendance/award.
The content of the submitted data is deleted after one year and non personal data is used for statistical purposes.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-services/frequently-asked-questions:
The Diploma Supplement is a document which describes your qualification in a standard format that is designed to be easily understood and straightforward to compare.
It contains information on the level, context, content and status of the studies that were successfully undertaken.
This is a generic document which normally accompanies your transcript.
We can send documents by courier, the following charges apply:
If these are your original degree documents, to be despatched following the ceremonies, please follow the link given in the Ceremonies Unit emails.
Your transcript will show details of:
Electronic transcripts cost £7.50 per qualification.
Hard copy transcripts prices:
You can order and pay for a transcript via our Online Document Store .
Yes, you can provide multiple delivery addresses for your transcripts when ordering.
We are now able to offer a pdf of your transcript, via email, which will include a stamp and signature, through our Online Document Store .
You must allow up to 10 working days for us to produce your order.
At certain times of the year (i.e.
after congregation) the volume of requests can mean that this may be slightly longer than usual.
If you studied with us before 1999 this may also take longer to produce.
The transcript is an official document, we are unable to add or remove modules from transcripts.
When placing your order there is an opportunity to upload a form to accompany your transcript.
You can also hand the form in at the Student Services desk in the Palatine Centre and the team will ensure this accompanies your transcript(s).
Yes, please order via our Online Document Store.
It is possible to select to collect your ordered documents or you can arrange for a friend to collect your order documents on your behalf.
You should include the name of your friend when placing an order.
Yes, there is an option to select separate Durham University named envelopes for each transcript which we stamp with the University shield across each seal and tape.
There is a charge of £1 per envelope.
Once a reasonable period of time has lapsed, we will re-issue your documents without charge.
No.
The University does not operate a GPA ranking and does not have an agreed GPA scale.
The University’s classification arrangements are designed to be consistent with the QAA Framework for Higher Education Qualifications (England, Wales and Northern Ireland).
We can provide a letter to confirm that a GPA is not available.
You can order a Confirmation of Award letter (Graduates) via our Online Document Store .
This will confirm your qualification.
A parchment is the word which the University uses to mean your certificate.
Your parchment is an official document which proves that you have a University of Durham qualification which includes:
You can order a Replacement Parchment via our Online Document Store .
The original must be lost, damaged or stolen.
We are unable to replace degree parchments whilst they are still in transit.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-services/academic-awards-and-prizes:
Each year the University presents a range of undergraduate scholarships, prizes, bursaries and awards and postgraduate prizes.
These prizes are awarded by the Board of Examiners and will appear on the student’s transcript.
For any further guidance or information on this, contact transcripts.parchment@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/about-us:
to your Durham University alumni community
Stay in touch with Durham by checking out our latest series of events, or browse our range of stationery, clothing and gifts.
You can also find gift collections from your college.
Take a look at some of the memories of Durham that our wonderful graduates shared with us in the marquee at Congregation.
From our student blog, many of our past graduates share their distinct memories and how they keep in touch with friends throughout the years.
Find out who the Senior Leadership Team are in the Development & Alumni Relations Office and how you can contact us.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/about-us/dursa:
The Durham University Retired Staff Association (DURSA) connects and engages with former Durham University members of staff.
The Association maintains a vital connection between the University, its intellectual and social networks and our valued community of retired staff and is led by a committee elected at the Annual General Meeting (AGM).
The current committee members are:
Retired staff can enjoy the benefits of a campus card, library access and a University email address, as well as University alumni mailings with news and updates from across the University community.
DURSA activities are planned carefully to reflect the interests of its members, there are regular, well-attended events, hosted by the Association.
New members and new ideas are always encouraged and welcomed.
Events are publicised through the regular Events Bulletins sent out from our Development and Alumni Engagement team.
Membership is be open to all staff who have retired from Durham University and from the Recognised Colleges, and also the spouses or partners of deceased retired staff.
We are keen to extend the invitation to any former staff who may have retired some time ago, so would be grateful for your support to spread the word.
For questions about the Committee and DURSA activities, please contact dursa@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/team-durham:
Experience our new gym for yourself with brand new, state of the art equipment, bespoke personal training and a fantastic exercise class timetable!
Our new facilities will allow us to compete sustainably at the highest levels of British University Sport whilst supporting increasing levels of student, staff and local community participation.
Following alumna Lauren Irwin’s selection as part of the Team GB rowing squad, she has been training intensively for the 2024 Paris Olympics.
All things Team Durham sport written by former director of sport Peter Warburton.
Contact us via the relevant email button below

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/professional-services/ceremonies/congregation:
In a Congregation ceremony, degrees are formally conferred upon candidates.
Congregation is a term that means gathering together.
This ceremony can also be called Graduation.
Congregation ceremonies are live-streamed for those who aren't in Durham Cathedral, so you can be a part of this exciting occasion.
For pass lists published in the months immediately after our Summer or Winter ceremonies, graduands may be eligible to have their degrees awarded in absentia at a Spring or Autumn conferral.
This is in order for us to dispatch degree documents (certificates) at the earliest possible opportunity.
Students do not attend this conferral but are invited to attend the next set of ceremonies (i.e.
Summer or Winter depending on the time of year).
Students eligible for this will receive an email to the address logged on their Banner record and will be given the opportunity to confirm their delivery address and contact details via Banner Self Service.
Graduating?
Congratulations!
Check out our information for graduands page to find out more about what happens during your ceremony.
Attending Congregation?
Learn more about what happens on the day.
In the event of postponement or cancellation of Congregation ceremonies, the University will endeavour to communicate this on the website and by contacting the attending students.
Under no circumstances shall the University be liable for any actual or alleged loss by the graduand or guests arising from the cancellation or postponement of the event.
Read our terms and conditions to learn more.
Your journey with Durham isn't over - find out how to stay connected with the Durham alumni community after Congregation and access career support, alumni events and more.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/about-us/contact-us:
Find out who the senior leadership team are in the Development & Alumni relations office.
Email: alumni.office@durham.ac.uk
Address: Development and Alumni Relations Office, The Palatine Centre, Stockton Road, Durham DH1 3LE
If you need to make a verifications request, please get in touch with the Verifications Team here.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/about-us/contact-us/meet-the-team:
Find out who the Senior Leadership Team are in the Development & Alumni Relations Office.
As Director of Advancement and Communications, Lucian is responsible for leading Durham University’s advancement activities, bringing together marketing, communications and development to support the enhancement of the University’s global reputation and influence.
Lucian is responsible for the Development and Alumni Relations Office and the Marketing and Communications Office.
Glen leads on activity across the Development and Alumni Relations Office.
He is responsible for overall strategic oversight and delivery of all fundraising, global alumni engagement, volunteering and communications, and advancement operations for the University.
He will lead our continued drive to engage global alumni audiences and secure philanthropic commitment in support of the University’s strategic aims.
His focus will be to establish a comprehensive campaign linked to Durham’s bicentenary in 2032.
Direct telephone: +44 (0) 7557 182 049
Email: glen.whitehead@durham.ac.uk
As a member of the Senior Management Team, Katie leads on philanthropic and operational activity undertaken by the Development and Alumni Relations Office, covering major and principal gifts from individuals and organisations alongside donor relations.
She also works directly with alumni and philanthropic partners to secure support for the University’s strategic priorities.
Direct telephone: +44 (0)7385 426700 Email: katie.harland-edminson@durham.ac.uk
Tristan is responsible for the Alumni Engagement and Regular Giving team.
Responsibilities include having strategic and operational oversight of alumni and supporter: events; communications; volunteering and giving, targeting a global community of over 200,000 members worldwide.
The Alumni and Supporter Engagement Team works closely with the University’s Colleges, Faculties, Departments, Institutes and beyond to coordinate effective member engagement strategies and plans.
Direct telephone: +44 (0)7341 780025 Email: tristan.alltimes@durham.ac.uk
Stuart leads the Advancement Services team at Durham University.
His portfolio comprises data and information management, data governance and compliance, alumni and stakeholder systems, reporting and analytics, training and user support, prospect research, gift processing, and stewardship.
Stuart has developed many new systems and processes, to improve and expand the Development and Alumni Relations functions at Durham including the development of an Alumni Engagement Pyramid.
Direct telephone: +44 (0)191 334 4551 Email: stuart.thompson@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/08/rebecca-daniel---tonga-trip:
The trip is the culmination of Rebecca’s work as Director of The Marine Diaries, a marine biologist, and a passionate science communicator.
Rebecca has spent the last 8 years working toward a sustainable future for the ocean through The Marine Diaries, so this expedition is a dream come true for her.
It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to bring together her scientific knowledge and storytelling skills and to contribute to vital marine research, connect with local ocean communities and inspire action to protect these gentle giants.
The trip is partly subsidised by 10% for the Ocean, but Rebecca is fundraising to cover the remaining costs.
“Cutting edge eDNA technology is revolutionising how we study marine life.
Every creature leaves tiny traces of DNA in the water.
Using simple techniques to collect and analyse this, we can tell which species are present even without seeing them!
This research will get a snapshot of all species present, but will focus on whales, dolphins, and porpoises (cetaceans), revealing not just their presence around the island, but also their genetic diversity, which is a vital marker of their long-term survival and resilience to threats like climate change.
This is one of the first studies to explore the genetic diversity of cetaceans in the Pacific, and the data collected will help guide conservation efforts in Tonga and across the region.
By empowering local communities and citizen scientists to take part, we'll ensure data collection continues into the future.”
Durham University takes pride in the achievements and contributions of its 230,000 alumni and supporters.
Stories that cite views, talks and published work reflect the individual's contribution in their personal or professional capacity and do not represent the University's position or endorsement .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/06/study-finds-women-politicians-are-judged-more-harshly-than-men:
Women politicians in the United States who deviate from party expectations or views are judged more harshly than men by voters.
That is according to the findings of a new study led by academics from our School of Government and International Affairs.
The study, led by Dr Tessa Ditonto, created a fictional congressional campaign and election.
Participants were asked to learn about two made-up candidates, one Democrat and one Republican, and then ‘vote’ for the candidate of their choice.
The researchers switched up candidate gender and added fake scandals to test if voters would still back their preferred party’s candidate.
When candidates’ policies aligned with those of their party, and the fake scandal was the only transgression, it had minimal impact on voting choices.
However, when the fictious candidate’s policy positions deviated from party expectations, striking differences emerged.
Women candidates saw a sharp drop in voter preference, whilst male candidates did not.
The study also found that at the start of an election campaign, voters have more uncertainty about women candidates than men.
Women candidates are therefore subject to greater scrutiny from voters and must work harder to prove their ability to represent voters effectively.
The team also found a ‘tipping point’ for partisan voters – whereby too much negative information about a candidate could lead them to disengage or even flip their vote.
This tipping point arrived more quickly for women politicians.
The research team argue their findings show an ongoing gender bias in US politics, with women politicians held to narrower and higher standards than men.
Whilst for men a deviation from party position could be seen as bold leadership, for women it was considered disloyal.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/06/summer-congregation-2025:
We have been celebrating the achievements of our students in the summer sunshine in 23 Congregation ceremonies.
Almost 15,000 guests, relatives, and supporters joined 5,000 graduating students from all over the world as they graduated in Durham Cathedral, which is part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Students enjoyed processing to the Cathedral from Durham Castle in their graduation robes, posing for photos with friends, and reflecting on their achievements at Durham.
As graduates, they join a thriving, 230,000-strong alumni community worldwide, who inspire and, in many cases, support our current students.
The ceremonies were presided over by our Vice-Chancellor and Warden, Professor Karen O’Brien, and our Chancellor and renowned foreign affairs expert, Dr Fiona Hill, alongside senior University colleagues.
We also awarded honorary degrees to seven leaders in their field, all of whom offer an inspiring example to our students.
They were Sherlock writer and actor Mark Gatiss, Notting Hill and Bodyguard actress Gina McKee and BBC broadcasters David Shukman and Lorraine Heggessey.
Also receiving awards were internationally renowned Malaysian law expert Dato’ Faiz Azmi, world-renowned academic and lawyer, Dapo Akande, and domestic abuse campaigner Becky Rogerson.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/06/partnership-with-securities-commission-malaysia:
We are working with the Securities Commission Malaysia to develop the financiers and regulators of the future.
Two joint initiatives were announced as we awarded an honorary degree in Civil Law to Dato’ Mohammad Faiz Azmi, a Durham graduate who is now Chairman of the Securities Commission Malaysia.
The Commission is responsible for the development and regulation of Malaysia’s capital markets.
The Young Regulators Development Programme will be a two-week capacity building programme for early career securities regulators.
It will be held annually from 2025 to 2027 in Kuala Lumpur, for regulators with three to five years’ experience from ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and IOSCO (International Organisation of Securities Commissions) member regulators.
In the first week, the programme will cover core foundations in capital market development, regulation, and supervision.
Week two will cover advanced and cutting-edge themes and trends including digital assets, fintech, cybersecurity, sustainability and environmental, social and governance, and Islamic finance.
We also offer an ASEAN Financial Regulators Scholarship, to support ASEAN financial regulators pursuing and MSc in Law and Finance with us.
Separately, we have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Securities Commission Malaysia to strengthen joint work in Islamic finance and Islamic capital market.
One of the joint initiatives is the Islamic Capital Market summer school, involving our Centre for Islamic Economics and Finance.
The school equips professionals with strategic leadership skills, technical knowledge, and understanding of Maqasid al-Sariah practices in Islamic capital markets.
It will run annually from 2025 to 2027.
Professor Mehmet Asutay, Durham University Business School; Professor Claire O'Malley, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global); Professor Kieran Fernandes, Durham University Business School; Dato' Mohammad Faiz Azmi; Professor Shaun Pattinson, Durham Law School; and Professor Federico Lupo Pasini, Durham Law School.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/06/national-student-survey-high-and-improving-satisfaction-from-our-students-:
Our students are very satisfied with their University experience at Durham, according to the National Student Survey 2025, where we achieved our strongest recent performance.
The National Student Survey (NSS), an independent annual survey, evaluates how satisfied students in the UK are with the quality of their experience at university.
The NSS considers the following seven areas: teaching on their course; learning opportunities; assessment and feedback; academic support; organisation and management; learning resources; and student voice.
Durham students are among the most satisfied in the country regarding their teaching, academic support and organisation and management, with Durham ranking in the top 10 across all of these measures.
Students were particularly positive about the ability of our staff to explain things and make subjects engaging, the fairness of the assessment process, and the level of intellectual stimulation provided by our courses.
Students also scored the University 4 th in the UK for giving them the opportunity to explore ideas and concepts in depth, demonstrating the quality of the research-led education on offer at Durham.
Durham also ranked in the top 10 for academic support, and saw significant improvements in assessment and feedback and learning opportunities.
We were particularly pleased to see, for the second year running, big increases in student satisfaction in relation to Student Voice.
We will continue to work with our students, and the Students’ Union, on this priority.
Geography, Biosciences, Accounting, Music and Theology and Religion were rated particularly highly by students, when asked about the teaching on their course.
Our results confirm our continued upward trajectory in this survey.
- Interested in studying at Durham?
Explore our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
- Explore what makes the Durham student experience so special.
- Find out more about how we rank against other universities.
- Explore the NSS results in more detail.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/06/working-to-answer-the-ultimate-question--are-we-alone-in-the-universe:
Dr Cyril Bourgenot from our Centre for Advanced Instrumentation is part of a team developing cutting-edge technology to enable astronomers to look deeper into the Universe.
He is presenting this work as part of the Royal Astronomical Society’s National Astronomy Meeting 2025, which is being hosted by Durham University this week.
Here, Cyril tells us about his work and how it could help answer the ultimate astronomical question – is there life elsewhere.
Q.
Cyril, tell us about your work to discover more about the diversity of planets in the Universe.
A.
I am part of a team working on a new spectrograph which will enable astronomers to discover more about the diversity of planets beyond our solar system.
Spectrographs are a fundamental tool in astronomy.
They allow scientists to probe the light from distant stars and learn more about what their composition and the elements the light has travelled through.
Existing spectrographs analyse visible/near infrared range.
But, in the hunt for exoplanets (a planet outside our solar system), this only allows us to see larger or hotter ones.
The new spectrograph we are working on will operate in the longer infrared waves.
This means it will be able to detect colder, fainter and smaller planets, that current instruments cannot.
This new technology will also be able to see forming planets that are still embedded in disks of gas and dust around young stars – so we can see how they are accreting.
We will also be able to carry out detailed studies of known exoplanets to reveal things like temperature, atmospheric composition, clouds and more.
The project is being led by the University of California Santa Cruz and Durham’s Centre for Advanced Instrumentation is leading on the design and manufacturing of some key parts of the equipment.
What is Durham’s role in this search for exoplanets?
We're building the technology that will pick up light from the distant exoplanets and analyse it to understand the gases in an exoplanet’s atmosphere.
The new system is called SCALES , which stands for Slicer Combined with an Array of Lenslets for Exoplanet Spectroscopy.
Durham’s Centre for Advanced Instrumentation is a world-leader in the development of ‘slicer’ components for spectrographs.
We have also designed, manufactured, tested and assembled ‘slicers’ for the James Webb Space Telescope and the European Extremely Large Telescope.
Slicers are monolithic components made of tens of little mirrors which “slice” the image and reformat it into a 1-dimensional slit, which then fed a spectrograph.
However, with SCALES, we are combining this ‘slicer’ with the ‘Array of Lenslets’ for the first time.
This combination will enable us to isolate exoplanet light in space, even that of colder exoplanets, and analyse this to understand its make up.
It is a new design concept that has never been done before, so it is truly at the forefront of astronomical technology.
SCALES will be installed in the Keck Observatory telescope in Hawaii later this year, meaning it will be online much earlier than other new astronomical instrument being built, such as the European Extremely Large Telescope.
What makes this technology so exciting?
SCALES will allow for far more detailed mapping of the Universe – helping us to understand the diversity of exoplanets and how they differ from those in our own solar system.
It will also help us to understand how planetary systems are created at the birth of a star.
If offers the ability to identify the chemistry of exoplanets, and in doing so, to potentially identify those with a similar atmosphere to Earth.
It also opens up the possibility of mapping all the exoplanets, to create a database of them and their atmospheric chemistry, to understand whether they may have water or clouds for example.
For any scientist, contributing to work to understand more about space is an amazing thing to be part of.
At is heart, technology like this feeds into one of the great questions in physics – are we alone in the Universe?
What other projects has the Centre for Advanced Instrumentation been involved in?
Durham’s Centre for Advanced Instrumentation develops cutting-edge technology for space, astronomy, biophysics, remote sensing and more.
We have developed specialised processes and technology for the James Webb Space Telescope and the European Very and Extremely Large Telescopes.
We have also recently completed work for the refurbishment of the GNIRS multifunction spectrograph within the Gemini observatory in Hawaii.
Our work also goes beyond astronomy.
We have worked with the Space Research Centre on optical payloads and satellites to support the space industry.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/06/tributes-for-former-vice-chancellor-sir-kenneth-calman:
Sir Kenneth, who was the UK Government’s Chief Medical Officer before taking up his appointment as Vice-Chancellor and Warden, held office at the University for nearly 10 years from 1998 to 2007.
His retirement coincided with celebrations for the University’s 175 th anniversary, in which he played a key part.
He was responsible for a significant number of important developments including leading the development of a long-term strategy for the University; helping Durham to become firmly established as a top ten British university and playing a key role in the establishment of three of our research institutes (Wolfson Research Institute for Health and Wellbeing, Durham Energy Institute and the Institute for Advanced Study).
Two new colleges were established under his leadership: Ustinov (formerly the Graduate Society, which achieved full college status in 2003) and Josephine Butler (opened in 2006) as well as other new buildings.
He oversaw the installation of the acclaimed author, Bill Bryson, as University Chancellor in 2005.
He later gave his name to the University’s Calman Learning Centre.
Sir Kenneth’s motto was “Through learning I help others”.
This, he said, summed up the important things he did in his life.
Thanks to a scholarship, he entered the University of Glasgow to study medicine, where he held the roles of student, lecturer, professor, Dean and Chancellor over more than six decades.
He was Chief Medical Officer in Scotland and then held the same role in England during the BSE public health crisis and the MMR vaccine debate.
He was a chair of the World Health Organisation Executive Committee and chaired the Commission on Scottish Devolution from 2008 to 2009, among other prominent leadership positions.
He was also the author of numerous books on medicine, a volume of poetry and an autobiography.
Professor Karen O’Brien, Vice-Chancellor and Warden , said: “Our University community is deeply saddened by the death of Sir Kenneth Calman, who steered the University into an even stronger position through the developments he oversaw during an almost 10-year tenure.
“He left a tremendous legacy.
Our thoughts and condolences are with all his family and friends."
Former Durham University Chancellor (2005-2011), Bill Bryson , said: “Kenneth Calman was a consummate Vice-Chancellor, indeed a consummate human being - wise, thoughtful, irrepressibly good-natured, deeply devoted to Durham and greatly admired by students and staff alike.
“Working beside him was an inspiration and a pleasure.
I will miss him very much."
Anne Galbraith, former Chair of University Council , said: “I knew Ken slightly when he was Chief Medical Officer, so it was a great pleasure to get to know him better when I joined the Council of the University.
“His tenure included some major developments in the University, not least teaching medicine.
“Ken was always such good company, with an impish smile.
He wore his learning and achievements lightly, and, for myself, he will always be remembered for his charm and unfailing good nature.”
Professor Ray Hudson, former Acting Vice-Chancellor (2014-2015) and former Deputy Vice-Chancellor , said: “It was with great sadness that I learned of Ken’s death.
He understood the importance of intellectual advance across, as well as within, disciplinary boundaries and the ways in which this could contribute to tackling pressing local and global problems.
“He was instrumental in the establishment of the Wolfson Research Institute for Health and Wellbeing, the Durham Energy Institute, and the pan-university Institute for Advanced Study, all of which continue to flourish as part of his legacy to the university."
The University of Glasgow: University of Glasgow - University news - Sir Kenneth Calman
BBC News: Academic and devolution reformer Sir Kenneth Calman dies aged 83 - BBC News
The Times: Kenneth Calman obituary: former chief medical officer for Scotland
Lucian Hudson, Executive Director, Communications & External Relations communications.team@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/06/reflections-from-joe-docherty-our-outgoing-chair-of-council-:
Following 16 years as a member of our University Council, including seven as Chair, Joe Docherty, is stepping down from his voluntary role at the end of this month.
As he prepares to hand over the role of Chair, Joe reflects on some of the highlights of his role, in conversation with Lucian Hudson, Executive Director, Communications and External Relations.
I think the memory that most sticks with me is of the telephone conversation I had with the then Vice-Chancellor at the point that COVID had emerged.
It was a sunny day in London, and I remember vividly that I was walking from the British Museum down to Embankment when he called me.
In that half hour conversation, he told me that he wanted to lock down the University.
Our statisticians were doing their own research into the virus and the data showed how virulent the virus was and that every day mattered.
When he called me, there was not even a hint that the country would go into lockdown.
Whilst it wasn't a Council decision, he wanted my support, which I gave.
We thought there may have been repercussions at the time, that the decision was not in the corporate interests of the University, but the paramount concern was the welfare of our students and staff.
48 hours after the University, the whole country went into lockdown.
That was a very memorable phone call.
I do enjoy the role, but that’s not why I do it.
I see it as being a public service.
The achievements of the University are the achievements of the people who work there.
You can take a reflected joy in times of success, but it’s not your success, it’s a shared success.
What gives me joy, and has always been a feature of my career, is when I have been involved in recruiting people who have gone on to excel and grow in their roles.
The University has a strong leadership team, and that is going to be key in navigating through the next few years.
Whilst in the role of Chair, I've worked directly with two Vice-Chancellors and had excellent working relationships with them both.
I’ve enjoyed the open, trust-based conversations we’ve had.
I think it can be a very lonely job being a Vice-Chancellor, so as Chair you need to be a safe space – someone for others to bounce ideas off.
Without doubt I would say the biggest challenge is the financial crisis facing the higher education sector which has emerged in the last few years.
This will be the primary focus of all governing bodies over the next five years.
We are a very popular university with a great brand and reputation, but we are not immune to the challenges.
Members of University Council will need to ensure that the executive is supported and has the right balance of skills, experience and capacity to deliver the change that’s needed.
There have been times when Durham has perhaps not engaged to the same extent regionally as it does now but has focused more on being an international player.
That is now changing, with the Vice-Chancellor and senior leadership team very much focused on widening access and participation and on being a global university in the North East of England.
They are engaging very carefully with the Mayor and the local community to leverage the impact of our activities.
The vision is to embed the University in the region without losing sight of that international focus.
These are not in conflict.
We have some way to go to achieve this, but I think we are already making ground.
My only regret is to not have seen our students and staff in action more.
Joe’s last Council meeting is on Tuesday 15 July.
We would like to thank him for all his work, dedication and enthusiasm throughout his time as a member and then as Chair of Council.
We wish him all the best for the future.
Caroline Johnstone has been appointed as our new Chair of Council and will take up the role in August.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/latest-news/2025/05/northern-lights-a-cappella-third-in-the-world:
The sky’s the limit as reigning UK champions Northern Lights A Cappella place third at the world finals of the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella in America.
There is no stopping our Northern Lights A Cappella vocal group.
They recently returned to the UK after a triumphant performance at the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella (the ICCA) finals on Broadway, NYC.
The 15-strong ensemble were the only UK representatives in the finals and faced competition from nine other top A Cappella groups from across Canada and the USA.
This is the first time a mixed UK A Cappella group has ever placed on the podium at these internationally recognised awards.
The group were praised for their tight vocals and impressive choreography.
Their set, which was arranged entirely in-house by the group’s Musical Director, Aman Krishna, included performances of ‘Somewhere Over the Rainbow’ from ‘The Wizard of Oz’, ‘Dream On’ by Aerosmith, ‘Golden Slumbers’ by the Beatles, and an electric closer with ‘Night Fever’ by the Bee Gees.
Multi-award winning Northern Lights A Cappella is in its 12 th year as a student-led, North East of England based mixed vocal ensemble.
Fourteen singers and a beatboxer perform a wide range of genres from mainstream pop to musical theatre ballads, weaving their unique musical arrangements and choreography into each song.
Their singing takes them around the world, from headlining sell-out shows at Durham’s Gala Theatre, to the world-famous Edinburgh Fringe, and New York.
The group arrange all their own music in close collaboration with previous alumni generations, many of whom provide regular mentorship and support their performances in the UK and the USA.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/events/2025/09/dubs-60th-celebration-in-shanghai:
9 September 2025 - 9 September 2025
7:00PM - 9:30PM
Shanghai skyline
Durham University alumni, friends and supporters are invited to join us in Shanghai to celebrate 60 years of Durham University Business School.
Join Durham University staff, including Professor Julian Williams to hear the latest news from Durham.
The event will also serve as an opportunity to meet fellow alumni and socialise with your local alumni Chapter.
Light refreshments will be served at this informal reunion.
Please email business.alumni@durham.ac.uk with any questions.
We greatly look forward to welcoming you to the evening.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/events/2025/09/dubs-60th-celebration-in-shenzhen:
11 September 2025 - 11 September 2025
6:30PM - 9:00PM
Shenzhen skyline
Durham University alumni, friends and supporters are invited to join us in Shenzhen to celebrate 60 years of Durham University Business School.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/events/2025/09/hatfield-college-alumni-weekend-:
2:00PM - 10:00AM
Various
The weekend will include an opportunity to catch up with fellow Hatfielders in the Hatfield Bar (Friday evening) with optional curry; a variety of sporting and musical events - enjoy a game of croquet or get back on the river; and an evening dinner on Saturday in the College Dining Hall.
There is the opportunity to stay in College again - perhaps in your old room - with rooms at special alumni rates for bed & breakfast.
Please click here for further details and how to book.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-events/events/2025/09/department-of-engineering-60th-anniversary-alumni-celebration:
13 September 2025 - 13 September 2025
2:00PM - 9:00PM
£55
Engineering students
As part of the event, there will be many opportunities to meet friends old and new.
There will be a drinks reception upon arrival, followed by hearing from some of the Department’s current staff and students about their recent successes (likely to include solar cars and rockets) and a few stories from our long history.
Prepare to be split into small groups for hands-on practical activities with support from our demonstrators to help rekindle your memories of afternoon lab sessions.
There will be tours and you will see our new Design Studio space, which was opened this year to give our students the opportunity to convert their designs into prototypes.
You will also see the replacement for our long serving Denison Tensile tester which undoubtedly caused many alumni and visitors to jump with surprise due to the thud of breaking rebar.
After this, we will move on to Grey College to enjoy a three-course dinner and to share memories and stories from the past sixty years.
The event is open to all Engineering alumni and guests are welcome to join.
We welcome you to join for either or both parts of the event.
The ticket options will allow you to select which part of the event to attend.
Tickets cost £55 per person and include a three-course dinner.
If you can only attend part of the day, please select this when you book your tickets (£10 tour only, £45 dinner only).

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/our-prospectus:
For UK and International applicants.
All about undergraduate study and student life in Durham, tailored to you.
All about postgraduate life at Durham, with information on taught & research degrees, tailored to you.
Colleges are so much more than just the place where you will live.
Learn all about our 17 colleges and our unique collegiate system.
Read what our 17 colleges offer for PG students.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/location/queens-campus-location:
Queen's Campus, Stockton is linked by the A66 to the A1(M) and the A19.
From A19 South to Queen's Campus
Join the slip road for the A66 signpost Stockton/Darlington.
Keep on the slip road and follow the signs for the Barrage as described above.
East Coast Main Line operate high-speed services from London, York and Edinburgh to Darlington, with a connection to Thornaby Railway Station.
The Transpennine Express provides a direct approximately hourly service from Manchester Airport, Manchester, Leeds and York to Thornaby.
Northern Rail operates a regular service from Saltburn to Newcastle and Bishop Aukland that stops at Thornaby and Durham.
Teesside International Airport is just 8 miles from Stockton and Newcastle International Airport is 50 minutes drive.
Durham University International Study Centre is based at Queen’s Campus in the town of Stockton-on-Tees (also called ‘Stockton’) provides international students with International Foundation Year and Pre-Masters study opportunities.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/about-us/how-to-contact-us/emergency-contacts:
Your call should be answered within ten seconds.
A trained staff member will ask you to describe what has happened and where you are, so that you can receive help quickly.
Please keep calm, and be prepared to give a brief, clear and precise explanation of the problem.
As well as obtaining immediate help, your information could be used to prevent other crimes and help keep other people safe.
Once you have phoned the emergency services, you should alert the University's Security Hub to the incident.
You can reach them on 0191 334 2222 or via the SafeZone App .
Calls to this number and alerts via the SafeZone App are answered 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by a trained Security Operator.
University Security have access to a list of emergency contact telephone numbers of university staff who can offer support and guidance.
Security will also ensure that any emergency services attending the incident can get access to where they need to be on site quickly.
If you want to report a non-emergency situation, such as theft or damage, you should either call 101 to speak to the local police, or go to your nearest police station to report the situation (in Durham City, the local police station is on New Elvet).
Again, information you provide can also help prevent other crimes and keep other people safe.
Finally, as above, you should also contact the University Security hub on 0191 334 2222 or via the SafeZone App to make them aware of the issue.
If you need to contact your college about a student support matter, or other serious situation, you can use the below phone numbers 24 hours a day:
College of St Hild and St Bede
07526 169136
Collingwood College
0191 334 5000 / 07979 753662
Grey College
0191 334 5900 / 07715 771447
0191 33 4 2619 / 07884 386709
John Snow College
07912 746027
Josephine Butler College
0191 334 7270 / 07894 073322
South College
07921 897781
St Aidan's College
0191 334 5769 / 07741 237973
St Chad's College
0191 334 3358 / 07968 690830
St Cuthbert's Society
0191 334 3470 / 07776 681409
St John's College
08000 988084
St Mary's College
0191 334 5719 / 07793 268608
Stephenson College
0191 334 0545 / 07787 892048
Trevelyan College
0191 334 7000 / 07871 965526
University College
0191 334 3800 / 07880 442209
Ustinov College
0191 334 5470 / 07824 131678
Van Mildert College
0191 334 7100 / 07717 360985
In the event of an emergency or other serious situation, you can find a list of useful contact information on the reverse of your campus card.
As well as the contacts above, the University provides a number of other sources of help and support.
There is a dedicated student support team within each College who are able to offer confidential and practical support on a range of issues.
There are also many University, student-run and external services that are able to provide specialist help.
These services provide a growing range of online guides, tools and other useful information.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments:
At Durham University we are extremely proud of our staff and students.
Prepare to be inspired.
Prepare to achieve something extraordinary.
Our academic staff are so much more than lecturers.
They carry out ground-breaking research that shapes our departments, inspires our courses, and directly informs our teaching.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/go-to:
We’ve re-focused our website to make it easier for you to find electronic resources and support.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/support-information/research-support:
Use the options below to explore the support available to research staff and students at Durham University.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/museums-and-galleries:
The Museums, Galleries and Exhibitions team within University Library and Collections care for more than 100,000 objects spread across the Oriental Museum, Museum of Archaeology and Durham Castle Museum, as well as the University Art Collection and parts of the University Biosciences Collection.
These collections range in date from 250,000 years ago to the present day and come from more than 60 different countries worldwide.
In addition to our public galleries, and ambitious exhibition and events programmes, we also contribute to a wide range of teaching and research activity within the University.
Our curators provide support and guidance to students and academics at Durham University and from around the globe, enabling them to work with our collections both physically and online in support of teaching, research, outreach and impact.
Explore our collections online, refine your search results or get in touch for more support.
Find out more about the range and depth of each of our collections.
From making an appointment to research the collections to obtaining permission to publish.
Find out how our expert staff can support your teaching, research and impact activities.
Learn more about our range of research-led international projects and partnerships.
Our case studies provide some examples of different ways we can work with you.
We have a number of sites across University Library and Collections, including fantastic libraries, research rooms, museums and galleries.
Visit our guide for opening times and further information, or use our online enquiry form.
Sitting at the heart of Durham's World Heritage Site, Durham Castle is now home to the students of University College, as well as our museum and collections.
For opening times, visit our website.
Durham Castle Palace Green Durham DH1 3RW
The Museum of Archaeology's collections range from the prehistoric to the post-medieval.
Our gallery charting the story of Durham is housed within Palace Green Library.
Museum of Archaeology Palace Green Library Palace Green Durham DH1 3RN
From Ancient Egypt to modern China, our Oriental Museum is the only museum in the North of England devoted entirely to the art and archaeology of the great cultures of Northern Africa and Asia.
Oriental Museum Elvet Hill Durham DH1 3TH United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/museums-and-galleries/about-our-collections:
Durham University is home to internationally important collections of art, archaeology, anthropology, geology, social history and natural history from across history and around the globe.
Some of these collections are managed by academic departments such as Anthropology and Earth Sciences.
University Library and Collections care for more than 100,000 objects and artworks spread across three museums and two collections.
We make these collections accessible to all university staff and students as well as the tens of thousands of members of our local community, tourists, UK and international researchers who use our museums, visit our exhibitions or take part in our events programme each year.
Look at the information on academic support to find out how our curators work to make all of our collections accessible to academics and students for teaching and research.
Our Collections Outreach Team are dedicated to sharing our collections with non-academic visitors and users of all kinds.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/museums-and-galleries/search-our-collections:
You can use Discover to search all of Durham University’s libraries, museums, archives and special collections.
For more information, visit our website.
If you wish to narrow your search to the museum collections only, put in your search term and make your search.
When your results appear look for the second drop-down box marked 'Museums and collections' to the right of the first in the search box.
Click here and select 'Durham museums' and your results will be narrowed to exclude archives and departmental collections.
Alternatively use the 'Refine my results' box on the right to select 'objects' or, if you are searching for photographs or other visual works, select 'images'.
More than 60,000 object records from across the Oriental Museum, Museum of Archaeology, Durham Castle and the University Art Collection are included in the database.
Just over 40,000 of these objects have been photographed.
If you wish to refine your search to only select those objects with photographs, use the 'Refine my Results' section on the right-hand side of the results page and under 'Availability' select 'Full text online'.
This will narrow your results to only those objects with images.
This is a working database and not a finished catalogue.
We are constantly working to improve our database and new records and images are added regularly.
Existing records are also constantly being revised to add new research.
However, this also means that not all entries are complete, and some may contain errors ranging from typing mistakes to misidentifications.
We make our collections accessible to all for the purposes of academic and community research and provide access to our database online.
In accordance with standard professional practice, our database entries will reflect the language of the collection and of its original creators; additionally, the individual records may have been written many years ago when the collection was first received by the university.
Voices, objects and images from the past can display attitudes, opinions and relate to events which may be viewed as biased and offensive in today’s society.
Other voices are not always present.
We are committed to listening to all communities and welcome your engagement.
If you wish to contact us about any language used in our online database or about any particular item in our collections, please make a note of the reference number and email us at collections.assistant@durham.ac.uk
Find out more about booking an appointment to study objects in the collection.
We have partnered with a range of UK and international organisations to share our collections more widely.
Why not explore?

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/museums-and-galleries/using-our-collections:
Find information and guides on Using Our Collections.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/partners-and-projects:
Our Libraries and Collections include library, archives, special collections, museums and galleries.
We support learning, teaching and research across the University and worldwide.
We work with many people and organisations on a wide spectrum of projects.
We are partnered with several local libraries, to facilitate access to and support of their collections.
Explore the breadth of projects we are leading or actively involved with and find out more about our partner libraries.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/museums-and-galleries/academic-support:
Members of the museum's team are happy to provide support and guidance to students and academics seeking to work with our collections in either the physical or digital realms whether for teaching or research.
If you are looking for dissertation topics or seeking to develop a new course or module, we are happy to talk to you about how our collections and expertise might enhance your teaching activities.
More than 100,000 objects and artworks from around the globe and across history offer the potential for a huge range of object-based research across disciplines, supported by the experience and expertise of our team of curators.
We can advise you on how to use our collections and spaces in ways that maximise the potential to demonstrate research impact.
Learn more about our research-led projects and partnerships .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/museums-and-galleries/student-art-prize:
Durham University’s annual Student Art Prize was launched in October 2019 to expand opportunities around the visual arts within the University and to develop a new permanent student art collection.
Although Durham does not formally teach fine art, almost every University college has its own active art society or art group.
Within these groups, students take part in workshops, meet artists, and develop their artistic skills through collaborative creativity.
The Student Art Prize launches in November each year, with the deadline for submissions in February the following year.
Each year, a new prize theme is chosen to allow a wide range of exploration and conceptualisation, and offers students a professional platform in which to develop and exhibit their practice.
The prize additionally offers the opportunity for student artwork to be accessioned into the university art collection, where it will be used for research, teaching and display, both within the university and externally, in perpetuity.
Prizes for the Student Art Prize include cash awards and art supplies gift vouchers.
Accompanying the Student Art Prize is the ‘Art School Art School’; a programme offering opportunities for student artists to engage with the theme, expand their practice and support their development as artists.
As part of the Art School, we have commissioned and collaborated with regional artists, practitioners and arts educators to create a programme of freely accessible talks, workshops and downloadable resources for both students and the wider public to engage with.
Explore more about this year's prize, how to apply, and previous prizes.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us:
Palace Green Library exterior.
January 1833 saw the establishment of Durham University Library on Palace Green with a foundation collection of 160 volumes donated by William Van Mildert, the last Prince Bishop of Durham and the founder of the University itself.
Now University Library and Collections offer spaces, collections, expertise and services supporting education, research, the wider student experience and cultural and educational outreach.
Collections and services operate from libraries, museums, galleries and exhibition spaces, including the UNESCO World Heritage Site on Palace Green and our nationally and internationally recognised collections span early books and manuscripts, museum objects, art, and printed materials.
Today you can access our services and collections without leaving home, using the extensive range of electronic journals and textbooks, available through our library catalogue, Discover .
Our repository gives access to a growing body of rich object, manuscript and archives collections made available through our ongoing digitisation programme, alongside academic research outputs and research data.
Our collections are always growing and developing to support intellectual curiosity and scholarship, and we are fortunate to receive significant donations which enhance our offer.
In August 2019 we acquired the archive of “Radical Jack”, Lord Lambton and 1 st Earl of Durham, a key player in the development of the Great Reform Act of 1832 which transformed the British Electoral System.
Every year University Library and Collections welcomes students, scholars and members of the public from across the globe.
Our experienced and knowledgeable staff are here to help whatever your query and you can reach us by telephone, email, and online chat and of course we are always pleased to meet you in person during our opening hours.
Whether you are a member of the University, an alumnus or a visitor we hope you will enjoy working with us and will find your experience enriched by the expertise of our staff and the breadth and depth of our collections.
Winter 2017 Between Worlds, and Dante exhibitions in Palace Green
A 17th-century painting of Durham featuring the Cathedral and Castle.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/museums-and-galleries/visit-us:
Find information and guides on visiting us.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/news-and-events:
Keep up to date with all the latest updates, and any upcoming events.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/learn:
Explore more about what the Learning and Engagement Team offer for primary and secondary school, sixth-form, college and home learning groups.
Sessions are available across the Bill Bryson Library , Oriental Museum , Museum of Archaeology , Durham Castle , Art , Botanic Garden , Archives and Historic Libraries Collections and venues.
Discover our collections in our immersive, sensory and accessible events, workshops and sessions suitable for all ages and abilities with our families and lifelong learning programme.
There are a range of projects you can get involved with.
Explore our past projects working with community groups, families, schools, university students and partnered organisations.
Explore our digital content and resources to support your visit to our museums.
Designed for learners of all ages.
All the information you need to bring your group on site with us.
Learn c/o Oriental Museum Elvet Hill Durham DH1 3TH

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/archives-and-special-collections:
Durham University's archives and special collections include over 70,000 books published before 1850, medieval manuscripts, maps, prints and photographs.
The development of manuscript and book collections at Durham University began in its earliest days.
William Van Mildert, Bishop of Durham, who was instrumental in founding the University, presented a foundation collection in January 1833.
The University also took custody of Bishop John Cosin's Library, still housed in its original building on Palace Green.
Further gifts of rare books and manuscript collections were received, and the University Library expanded to occupy rooms in the 15th century Exchequer building next to Cosin's Library.
All these collections are now housed at Palace Green Library, along with the archives of the University itself, dating back to 1832.
They represent a rich resource for learning, teaching and research, and are available for anyone to consult.
They also form part of the cultural heritage of Durham and in particular, its World Heritage Site.
Explore our collections online, refine your search results or get in touch for more support.
Find out more about the range and depth of each of our collections.
From making an appointment to research the collections to obtaining permission to publish.
Find out more about our conservation work to ensure the long-term preservation of the unique objects within our collections.
Artwork exhibition at Palace Green Library.
DLI regimental parade on Palace Green.
Local and family history.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/archives-and-special-collections/about:
Durham University provides research access to over 8 miles of archives, manuscripts and special book collections.
There are some subjects, time periods and geographic areas where the University has particular collection strengths and holds world-renowned resources.
The nature of archives and library collections means that there is also a very wide range of other subjects and themes for which there will be at least some material.
Our Collections Outreach Team are dedicated to sharing our collections with non-academic visitors and users of all kinds.
The links below will take you to more information on the major collections and subjects, and also to collections that have been digitised and can be accessed online.
There is also a link to information about other collections and subjects, including a list of all the collections that we hold.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/archives-and-special-collections/search:
Use Discover to search all the books, archives and other resources available within Durham University Library and Collections.
The Archives and Special Collections are catalogued at two different levels of detail.
The collection guides can be searched using Discover .
The catalogues can be searched in different ways according to their format.
We make our collections accessible to all for the purposes of academic and community research, and provide catalogues to them online.
In accordance with standard professional practice our catalogues will reflect the language of the collection and of its original creators; additionally, the catalogues may have been written many years ago when the collection was first received by the university.
Other voices are not present.
If you wish to contact us about any language used in our catalogues or about any particular item in our collections please make a note of that item's reference number or shelf-mark and contact us .
If you need help interpreting our catalogues or looking for information within the collections, you can contact us through our enquiry form .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/archives-and-special-collections/using:
Our collections contain material of immense cultural value to communities in the north east, the United Kingdom and the world.
These treasures are your heritage, telling stories of our shared past that can be inspiring and challenging, and challenged too.
We curate them for you and for future generations, making them freely accessible to all.
Whether you're an academic researcher or if you want to find out more about your local area or your family's history, we're here to help you make the most of what we have, so please get in touch if you need to.
Make a start by searching our online catalogues to find what interests you.
You are very welcome to make an enquiry and to visit us .
From illuminated manuscripts to digital files we must look after all of our collections carefully so that they are still there for researchers long into the future.
You will therefore be asked to register when you first visit us, and then to follow rules when handling items .
Please explore our online guides , which contain a wealth of information about our collections and how you may access them.
If you have further questions, our knowledgeable staff will be pleased to hear from you and offer their help.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/archives-and-special-collections/conservation:
Durham University is committed to caring for its collections, ensuring the long-term preservation of these unique objects whilst making them accessible for students, researchers and visitors.
Palace Green Library is home to the Conservation Unit where archives and special collections items receive attention from professionally trained Conservators.
The materials that archival documents and printed books are made from are at risk of deteriorating as they age and are vulnerable to damage if not stored and handled carefully.
Conservators use a combination of preservation measures to slow deterioration and interventive repair to stabilise fragile items.
Our collection care activities include:
The Conservation Unit does not undertake work for external clients but the team are happy to provide advice on collections care.
Conservation Studio at Palace Green Library
Cleaning a broken wax seal prior to repair
Paper document during conservation

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/archives-and-special-collections/academic-support:
Knowing where to start researching or teaching with archives and special collections can be daunting, particularly if you are unfamiliar with the breadth and depth of our collections.
You may be a student looking for a dissertation topic, a family or local historian, or an academic curious to know if and how our collections can support your research and teaching.
If you are a school teacher wishing to arrange a school visit, please visit our learning pages .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/support-information/your-faculty-librarians:
Your Faculty Librarian can help you get the most out of our libraries and collections, supporting your learning and teaching and helping you to develop your skills.
They can help you to keep up to date with the latest developments and act as a key contact for feedback, comments or questions.
Your Faculty Librarian can:
You can use our Subject Guides to find out more.
We can:
Find out more about working with your Faculty Librarians on the information for academic staff page.
Find out more about how your Faculty Librarian can support your research from the Information for researchers page.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/support-information/develop-your-skills:
Our suite of tutorials, videos, webinars and guides will help you to get the most out of our resources and develop the skills you need to research your assignments and dissertation effectively.
Getting started will help you to :
Finding information will help you with :
Managing information looks at topics such as:
Dissertation support is a suite of six tutorials designed specific ally for taught students about to undertake their first large, independent research project.
It takes you through the skills you need to find and manage resources appropriately.
If you want specific help for your subject, you can also use the subject guides or contact your Faculty Librarian .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/support-information/open-research:
As a leading research institution, Durham University is committed to sharing its knowledge and expertise as widely as possible.
The online services below provide Open Access to Durham University's published research output, data and higher theses.
Access our Open Research Guide for further information on:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/support-information/academic-staff:
We work closely with our academic colleagues to support your teaching and research.
Here are some of the ways we can work together.
Manage, create and update your reading list using Talis Aspire to:
Our team of Faculty Librarians can work with you to identify alternative material so that all Essential reading is available electronically.
A guide to Talis Aspire is available to help you get started.
Our team of Faculty Librarians can help you:
Our Museums and Archives and Special Collections specialists can help you explore our outstanding special collections and integrate them into your teaching.
Tell us about any books (other than reading list items) you’d like to add to our collections by making a request .
Your students can use this to recommend items too, so please encourage them to use it.
Requests for items on reading lists should be added to Talis Aspire .
We offer a range of research skills training to help you and your students get the most from our resources.
Contact your Faculty Librarian to arrange a research skills training session.
Don’t forget to encourage your students to:
See our Information for Researchers pages for advice on wider research issues, including:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/support-information/sixth-form-colleges:
The University Library has extensive resources including books, growing numbers of eBooks and ePrints, thousands of journal titles available in print and online, and access to many specialist databases.
To help sixth form students access these resources, and learn how to carry out effective research, we offer a physical session on research skills in the main University Library.
Alternatively, we can deliver a digital session via your chosen platform.
Book your session now
This session focuses on the research skills sixth form students will need for their studies and any potential entry into higher education.
A mini-lecture highlighting research strategy, referencing and accessing online material, including academic journals, is followed by a tour around Durham University’s main library, learning how to find and use educational material.
For more information on how your students can access the library, see below.
Accessing the Library
This 40-minute lecture will focus on how to access research material online.
This includes tools to help your students to carry out more effective online searches and introducing students to Open Access material, which will enable them to access research for free.
Students will also learn how to analyse online sources and be introduced to referencing.
Please note, this session does not serve as an induction to the Bill Bryson Library for independent access.
To aid your students in this session, please find links to notes for the lecture below.
Online Research Skills PDF
More resources for students on research skills can be found on our webpages .
We also run sessions for classes of A-Level students wishing to explore primary source material from Palace Green Library, the Oriental Museum, the Museum of Archaeology collections and the Art collection.
We can offer a variety of sessions exploring a range of topics.
For more information on these, see below.
Post 16 Art sessions
Post 16 History sessions

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/support-information/help-and-information:
We don’t expect you to know everything about the Library and there are no silly questions – we want to hear from you so we can help you in any way that we can.
You can also search our FAQs for answers to your questions.
You can contact us online through our 24/7 live chat service with any queries about University Library and Collections and our services.
Between 9am-5pm Monday to Friday, our live chat is run by Durham University Library staff.
Outside these hours, the service is run by staff from libraries around the world so you can ask a question at any time of day or night.
They won’t have access to your library account, but any queries they can’t answer will be referred to our staff so we can get back to you the following day.
You can email library@durham.ac.uk with any queries you have.
We monitor and respond to email queries Monday to Friday between 9am-5pm.
Bill Bryson Library (Monday to Sunday)
9am-6pm You will always find a member of library staff at the Help and Information Desk who can help you find your way around the building, use equipment and provide support with borrowing and returning items.
9:30am-5pm A full enquiry and information service is available at our Help and Information Desk.
We’re here to answer questions about all our services, provide support on accessing physical and electronic resources and check details on your Library account.
ISC Library (Monday to Friday) 9am-5pm Our Help and Information Desk at ISC Library provides a full enquiry and information service.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/using/borrow-from-us:
From borrowing to returning, loan periods to details of charges for late returns - click the links below to find out more about borrowing from us.
For information on borrowing from ISC Library, please visit our dedicated guide .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/using/electronic-resources:
Electronic resources (or eResources) are materials provided in a digital format and accessed via a computer network.
At Durham University, we provide access to a wide range of electronic resources to support learning, teaching and research activities.
Use the links below to find relevant information and get help with technical issues.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/using/it-and-equipment:
At Bill Bryson Library, there are PCs available for use on all floors.
Some are available to pre-book through our Space Bookings system.
Laptop docking stations are also available throughout the Library, allowing you to connect your laptop to an external display, keyboard and mouse.
They are available in the following areas (docking stations in bookable areas can be booked through our Space Bookings system ):
Laptops can be borrowed via the self-service laptop safe on Level 2 for use within the Library.
Laptops are issued without power packs and cannot be renewed online, but may be swapped for another if there are other laptops still available in the safe.
The following software is currently available on laptops:
Laptops are available on a first-come, first-served basis.
There are MFDs (multi-function devices) available across Bill Bryson Library, on which you can print, (from Library PCs or from your own device) scan and photocopy.
We also have two large-scale printers, suitable for printing up to A0 in size.
Full information about how to print can be found on the My Digital Durham SharePoint site, including how to print from your own device using PaperCut.
The following equipment is available to borrow from the Help and Information Desk on Level 2 of Bill Bryson Library:
Details of equipment available to support accessibility needs can be found on our Accessibility guide.
All DS study rooms are equipped with:
Details of additional equipment in each room can be found on our Accessibility guide.
We have a microform reader on Level 1, on which you can read microfiche, microfilm and microform.
Please ask a member of staff on the Help and Information Desk if you need assistance.
For information on IT and equipment available at ISC Library, please visit our dedicated guide .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/using/visitors:
Our libraries and collections are provided to support the research , teaching and learning of the Durham University community.
We are also pleased to welcome external students, researchers and visitors, aged 18 years and above, to Bill Bryson Library.
If you wish to access our Archives and Special Collections , visit our webpages for more information.
To access Bill Bryson Library:
General Information for visitors
Visitors studying or working at another academic institution
Visitors associated with Durham University
Individual External Visitors
If you need additional information, you can contact us through our live chat service or by emailing library@durham.ac.uk
General information
If you studying or working at another academic or partner institution
If you are associated with Durham University
Individual external visitors

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/using/other-libraries-collections:
Find out more about our Partner Libraries and the SCONUL Access scheme.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/visit-us:
Explore our libraries, study spaces, museums, and galleries.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/partners-and-projects/partner-libraries:
Durham Cathedral Library is administered by Durham Cathedral staff and comprises:
The modern collections are accessed via the Monks’ Dormitory, the first room of the Museum off the Cathedral Cloister.
Special Collections appointments are made by emailing Library@durhamcathedral.co.uk .
The medieval manuscripts and incunabula (15th-century printed books) are currently accessed at the University's Palace Green Library.
For more information, including catalogue information on all the collections, please visit our Durham Cathedral Collections guide .
Further information on access, contact details and procedures for booking appointments can be found at Durham Cathedral Library .
The search room at Ushaw is now op en by appointment every Thursday and Friday .
Please contact us on our enquiry form to ask about booking.
To keep services running smoothly, we need 3 weeks' advance notice and a full list of references of the items you wish to consult.
Your requested items will be out ready for you when you arrive.
Home to the internationally significant archive and rare book collections managed by Durham University and owned by the Trustees of Ushaw Historic House, Chapels and Gardens, Ushaw was a Roman Catholic seminary that trained young men for the priesthood from 1808 until its closure in 2011.
The library encompasses 30,000 early printed books, incunabula, pamphlet material and printed ephemera, from the fifteenth to the twenty-first century.
These include approximately 3,000 British sixteenth and seventeenth century items, a substantial amount of continental printing from across Europe, plus several Chinese, Turkish and Arabic texts.
The library is particularly rich in theological subjects, including:
In addition, there are large numbers of books on other subjects, such as Art, Mathematics, Medicine and Natural history, reflecting the college tradition of educating seminarians in the sacred and the secular.
The library at Ushaw holds significant archive collections, specialising in early modern Catholicism and the revival of the Catholic Church in Britain during the nineteenth century.
These collections include letters, diaries and other manuscripts from some of the most important figures in the English Catholic Church, including St John Henry Newman, Cardinal Nicholas Wiseman, and Rev John Lingard.
The college’s institutional archive also offers a unique insight into the spiritual, social and cultural life of a 200-year-old Catholic seminary.
Ushaw's own collections are complemented by other collections deposited with the college.
These include:
You can search the catalogue here: Library and archive collections catalogue.
To search specifically for Ushaw material in the catalogue, please use the advanced search function to restrict material to 'Special Collections', then restrict the search profile to 'Ushaw Library'.
Information about Ushaw Historic House, Chapels and Gardens.
For further enquiries on the collections or to book an appointment, please complet e our enquiry form .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/our-collections:
We are custodians of internationally recognised cultural collections, housed and displayed at Palace Green Library, the Oriental Museum, Durham Castle and across our campus.
These include important collections of European, Asian and African art and archaeology; social history and anthropological collections; biological specimens; archives; manuscripts; and early printed books from around the world.
Four of our cultural collections have been granted elite “Designated Collection” status by Arts Council England in recognition of their global significance.
Our extensive and wide-ranging collections and are used by members of the university, the wider academic community, schools and members of the public, for learning, teaching, research and enjoyment.
They include print books and journals, ebooks and ejournals, articles, reports, theses dissertations, databases, datasets and other research sources, images, recordings, news and open access resources.
If you wish to contact us about any language used in our catalogues or about any particular item in our collections please make a note of the reference number and contact us .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/case-studies:
Durham University’s Libraries and Collections include library, archives, special collections, museums and galleries.
Our collections and staff support a variety of teaching and research activities across the University and worldwide.
Explore the overviews below, and if you would like to find out more or are interested in using our collections to support your learning, teaching or research please contact us .
Coffeehouse politics in early 20th century Egypt
Creating wealth by recycling waste
Early Buddhism in Nepal
Preserving Pakistan’s Archaeological Heritage
Re-creating a 20th century philosopher’s messy desk
Using 18th century maps to establish 21st century rights
Alon Tam, with support from the University of Pennsylvania, used intelligence reports within the papers of Abbas Hilmi II, the last Khedive of Egypt, to trace the use of Cairo's coffeehouses in organizing nationalist and anti-government politics.
Part of a forthcoming book project on the social and political history of Cairo's coffeehouses, Tam used these reports, alongside later British military intelligence reports from The National Archives, to illuminate how coffeehouses increasingly became an urban space for popular politics during the first decades of the 20th century.
See article on The National Archives blog for more detail on this research.
In 2018, Dr Anna Reynolds used the Bamburgh Library collection to study the use of waste paper and parchment within early modern bindings.
Early modern bindings often made use of earlier printed works, manuscripts or administrative documents to provide pastedowns and packaging within the binding.
Speaking about the project, Anna (now at University of St Andrew’s) said,
“To fully understand the material make up of early modern books, one needs to sit in a rare book library and examine the obscure corners and edges of the book - elements rarely digitised and available online.”
Fragment of music for a motet in honour of St Peter, late 13th century (Add.MS.1950/Z/B5).
Members of the Oriental Museum team regularly collaborate with Durham University’s UNESCO Chair Archaeological Ethics and Practice in Cultural Heritage and Nepali colleagues on research-led projects focussed upon early Buddhist archaeology and the development of sustainable pilgrimage tourism in the Terai region of Nepal.
In 2019, team members worked with Nepali colleagues to co-curate the inaugural galleries for a new museum at Tilaurakot/Kapilavastu (adjacent to the remains of the city where Buddha spent his early years).
It is planned that this new attraction will help to underpin the developing tourism economy of the Terai and bring much-needed revenue into the region.
Later the same year, the team co-delivered an exhibition intended to increase international awareness of Nepal’s Buddhist archaeological heritage at the world-famous in Shwedagon Pagoda in Yangon, Myanmar.
The exhibition, which featured many images from the Oriental Museum’s collection, was formally opened by HE the President of Nepal.
Installing the exhibition at the Shwedagon Pagoda, Myanmar.
Local residents crowd into the newly opened Kapilavastu Museum.
The Oriental Museum is host to the Marshall Collection of early photographic images of the archaeology and historic sites of South Asia.
These rare images are crucial to the understanding of South Asia’s archaeological heritage and members of the museum team have been working with Durham University’s UNESCO Chair Archaeological Ethics and Practice in Cultural Heritage and academic and government partners in India and Pakistan to make these available as guides to the conservation and preservation of the region’s built heritage.
A current project that has grown from this is a joint exhibition with the Pakistan Government.
The bilingual exhibition, which will be hosted in Durham, Pakistan and online in 2021, will showcase how Durham University’s collections are being used to guide the preservation of the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Taxila.
Dharmarajika stupa, Taxila in 1915-16.
As well as being a novelist and philosopher, Iris Murdoch was one of the twentieth century's most dedicated letter-writers, spending up to 3 hours daily penning missives to friends.
One among them was her lifelong friend Mary Midgley.
Together with Philippa Foot and Elizabeth Anscombe, the two women are credited with revolutionizing moral philosophy in the 20th Century.
A recreation of Murdoch's desk featured unpublished correspondence between the two women held at Palace Green Library, and formed part of the British Academy Summer Showcase in June 2019 .
Iris Murdoch’s writing desk, an exhibit at British Academy summer showcase 2019.
Community researchers on behalf of the British Horse Society have been using maps generated by the enclosure of common land in the 18 th century to locate unregistered rights of way.
A legislative change in 2000 requires these footpaths and bridleways to be formally registered by 2025 or lost to public use forever.
In March 2021, the Northern Echo reported that the County Council Highways Committee has decided to upgrade Watergate Lane near Crook to bridleway status, subject to government approval.
This was partly on the strength of wording within a 1761 Enclosure Award held at Palace Green Library.
Extract from Enclosure map for Wolsingham Common, 1767 (DHC6/III/10).

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/donations:
We are custodians of internationally recognised collections of manuscripts, early and rare printed books, archives, archaeological artefacts, museum objects and artworks from around the globe, as well as modern print and digital resources.
Four of our collections are designated as being of international importance by Arts Council England.
Our staff use their expertise and enthusiasm to ensure our collections are discoverable and accessible, through research services and collaborations; academic teaching; school engagement; community and outreach programmes; exhibitions and displays; national and international loans; and, increasingly, through digital engagement.
These collections are used by university staff, academic and independent researchers from across the UK and the world, students in higher education from Durham and other universities, school pupils and teachers, local residents and tourists.
We are continually developing our collections to support our teaching and engagement, address gaps and add breadth and depth to our areas of specialism.
Our Collections Development Policy sets out the boundaries of our collecting activity within our cultural collections and proposals for acquisition are reviewed by a panel.
If you have items or collections which may be of interest to us, please get in touch.
E-mail Judy Burg , Head of Collections, or Craig Barclay , Head of Museums, Galleries & Exhibitions.
We accept donations to our modern collections, with decisions based on managing space and cataloguing resources.
For more information please see Library Gifts Policy .
We are also always pleased to receive donations to support our work - you can help us build our unique collections across museums and special collections, support placements and internships; contribute to our widening participation and community outreach programme; and enable other development and innovation.
You can donate online at Library, Archives, Museums and Galleries Donations or please contact Jessica Smith to discuss your wishes.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/get-involved:
Across Durham University Library and Collections, there are many ways you can get involved with many of the activities we have happening in many of our venues and visitor attractions .
We offer a range of volunteering opportunities across our visitor attractions with our skilled Archives and Special Collections team, Museums, Galleries and Exhibitions Team and our Learning and Engagement Team.
For post-16 and university students, we can support you with a range of work experience and placement opportunities.
If you wish to contribute to our collections, you can donate an object or make a donation .
Become a friend of our Visitor Attractions below:
For more information on any of the above, please get in touch .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/committees:
Library matters are discussed, and policy is formulated and ratified, via various committees.
The University Library and Collections Committee draws its membership across senior members of the university and includes representation from Durham Students’ Union.
It meets at least quarterly and has delegated authority from the University Executive Council (UEC) to provide direct oversight of Durham University (University) libraries and collections which include Oriental Museum, Art Collection, Museum of Archaeology, Durham Castle Museum, Archives and Special Collections, and the Institutional Archive.
Chair Executive Dean (Arts & Humanities)
Members
Secretary University Secretary's Office
The Library Users' Committee meets once a term.
It runs the same meeting twice each term, to enable maximum attendance.
It provides a strong point of communication between Faculty Library representatives and ULC, and opportunities to seek opinions and feedback from the Library representatives.
It reports into University Library and Collections Committee.
There is more information about the committee structure of the University as a whole on the web page for University Committees .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/policies:
Acceptable Use of E-Resources
Access Policy: University Library and Collections
Access Policy: ULC Museums, Exhibitions and Galleries
Campus Card Policy
Child Safeguarding Policy
Collections and Censorship
Collections Development Policy
Content Management Policy
Data Protection Policy
Food and Drink Policy
Greenspace Policies
Human Remains Policy
Learning and Engagement Policy
Library Gifts Policy
Preservations Policy
Privacy Notice
Privacy and Cookies Policy
Public Sector Information (PSI) Policy
Request for the Return of Cultural Items - Policy and Procedure
Social Media Community Guidelines
Users Accompanied By Children Policy

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/charters-and-regulations:
The Library and Collections department provides support to all members of Durham University.
Our collections, services and expertise are available to assist with education and research.
These are also available to the wider community and are a real asset to the University and the city of Durham.
Our Charter sets out what you can expect from us and what we expect from you.
Please also refer to the University Library R egu l ations (Regulation XII) and IT Facilities Regu l at i ons (Regulation XI).
For more information, see our Library and Collections Charter and Code of Conduct.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/our-staff:
For contact information for each of our sites, please see our Contact Us page.
For general enquiries, you can contact us through our live chat service or by emailing library@durham.ac.uk
Name
Title
Ext.
Email
Stuart Hunt
Director of University Library and Collections, University Librarian
stuart.w.hunt@durham.ac.uk
Dr Helen Ross
Assistant Director, University Library and Collections
helen.ross@durham.ac.uk
Dr Craig Barclay
Head of Museums, Galleries and Exhibitions
45690
c.p.barclay@durham.ac.uk
Judy Burg
Head of Collections
42965
07833 403803
judy.burg@durham.ac.uk
Maria Carnegie
Head of Customer Service
maria.a.carnegie@durham.ac.uk
Matthew Phillips
Head of Research and Systems
42941
m.e.phillips@durham.ac.uk
Simon Speight
Head of Education, Learning and Engagement
42981
s.g.speight@durham.ac.uk
Email: library.acquisitions@durham.ac.uk
Neil Davies
Senior Manager:  Content Acquisitions
Email: library.admin@durham.ac.uk
Email: library.digi@durham.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 2934
Email: library.disabilitysupport@durham.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 2934
Ben Taylorson
Faculty
Librarian
(Business)
benjamin.taylorson@durham.ac.uk
Colin Theakston
(Science)
colin.theakston@durham.ac.uk
Richard Holmes
Faculty Librarian
(Social Sciences)
richard.holmes@durham.ac.uk
Dr Richard Pears
(Arts)
richard.pears@durham.ac.uk
Email: Library.finance@durham.ac.uk
Email: interlibrary.loans@durham.ac.uk
Email Open Access: openaccess.publishing@durham.ac.uk Email Durham Research Online: dro.admin@durham.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 1586
Phone No.
James Bisset
Senior Manager: Library Research Services
0191 334 1589
james.bisset@durham.ac.uk
Nick Syrotiuk
Research Data Manager
nicholas.syrotiuk@durham.ac.uk
Email: Oriental.museum@durham.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 5691
Rachel Barclay
Senior Curator (Oriental Museum)
45693
rachel.barclay@durham.ac.uk
Qin Cao
Curator (Oriental Museum)
43417
qin.cao@durham.ac.uk
Gillian Ramsey
Assistant Curator (Oriental Museum)
45886
gillian.ramsay@durham.ac.uk
Email: archaeology.museum@durham.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 2932
Gemma Lewis
Curator (Archaeology and Bio Sciences)
44139
Email Collections: castle.collections@durham.ac.uk Email Tours: Castle.tours@durham.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 2932
Gillian Rennie
Curator (Castle and Colleges)
Email: Artcollection@durham.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 5670
Alix Collingwood
Curator (Contemporary Art)
45670
Email: Pg.library@durham.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 191 334 2972
Matthew McMurray
Senior Manager, Archives and Special Collections
42964
matthew.mcmurray@durham.ac.uk
Andrew Gray
Archivist
41210/ 41219
a.j.gray@durham.ac.uk
Francis Gotto
41218
francis.gotto@durham.ac.uk
Dr Jonathan Bush
University Archivist
41219
Jonathan.bush@durham.ac.uk
Dr Danielle Westerhof
Rare Books Curator
42926
Danielle.m.westerhof@durham.ac.uk
Dr Richard Higgins
Collections Discovery Librarian
42935
r.i.higgins@durham.ac.uk
Email: ulc-conservation@durham.ac.uk
Tony King
Senior Collections Care and Conservation Manager
42931
Ged Matthews
Cultural Engagement Manager
Email: 4schools@durham.ac.uk
Ross Wilkinson
Learning and Engagement Manager

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/contact-us:
For staff or specific department contact details , please see Our Staff page.
Tel : +44 (0)191 334 3042
Email: library@durham.ac.uk
Library Facebook
Library Bluesky
Library Instagram
Library Blog
Tel : +44 (0)191 334 2932
Archives and Special Collections Enquiry Form
Email: pg.library@durham.ac.uk
Durham University Collections Bluesky
Durham University Collections Instagram
Tel : +44 (0)191 334 1586
Durham Research Online email: dro.admin@durham.ac.uk
Open Access Funding and Publishing Options email: openaccess.publishing@durham.ac.uk
Durham Research Online Bluesky
Tel : +44 (0)191 334 0270
Email: isc.library@durham.ac.uk
Tel : +44 (0)191 334 5213
Tel : +44 (0)191 334 5670
Email: artcollection@durham.ac.uk
Durham University Arts Facebook
Durham University Arts Instagram
Tel : +44 (0)191 334 2932
Tour Information: castle.tours@durham.ac.uk
Collection Enquiries: castle.collections@durham.ac.uk
Email: archaeology.museum@durham.ac.uk
Tel : +44 (0)191 334 5691
Email: oriental.museum@durham.ac.uk
Email: visitor.centre@durham.ac.uk
Durham World Heritage Site Facebook
Durham World Heritage Site Twitter
Durham World Heritage Site Instagram
Tel : +44 (0)191 334 2993

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/news-and-events/events:
There are currently no events for this period.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/programmes:
Our programmes combine academic excellence and outstanding research with global business connections.
Add to that, exceptional skills and career development opportunities, you will find a learning experience which equips you for success in your chosen career.
86% in work and/or further study
£33,000 median salary of graduates in full-time employment
95% in work and/or further study
£33,325 median salary of graduates in full-time employment
100% in work and/or further study
£60,022 median salary of graduates in full-time employment
Data is taken from the national Graduate Outcomes Survey.
Respondents are from 2020/21 leavers, destination data is collected 15 months post-graduation.
Choose one of the following options to take your next step:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/programmes/mba:
Our MBA programmes are designed to provide you with everything you need for success in the business world: agile analytical thinking, global awareness and strong communication skills.
With close connections to many leading organisations, we are both informed by and immersed in the dynamic commercial landscape.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/programmes/masters:
Our Masters programmes consistently appear in top independent rankings for both quality and reputation.
Taught by a world-class faculty and supported by international-quality research, these intensive one-year, full-time programmes help you develop the analytical and practical skills that employers value.
Are you a Durham University UG student wondering what to do next?
We’ll be hosting a series of informative talks on essential PG topics such as careers, funding and student life.
Meet directly with a member of the Admissions Team and you could receive an offer on the day.
A series of podcasts hosted by Chris Roberts, Engagement Manager with the School’s International, Engagement and Careers team.
Listen to career insights from a range of inspirational speakers.
Discover what International Opportunities are on offer when you study a Masters with us.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/programmes/dba:
The part-time Durham DBA will e xpand your strategic business knowledge.
Y ou will learn from world-class academics and conduct meaningful research you can apply directly to your role/business.
The Global DBA Durham-emlyon (GDBA), is an executive doctoral programme delivered by Durham University Business School and emlyon Business School across global locations.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/programmes/phd:
The PhD is the highest academic degree and as such Durham graduates are in demand for:
Whatever your goals, the Durham PhD gives you the opportunity to combine rigorous academic theory with research to influence the world of business and make a unique contribution to your field of study.
It attracts exceptional students of the highest calibre, and in conjunction with scholars internationally-renowned for their research and thought leadership, the PhD programme at Durham University Business School is both challenging and stimulating.
The Durham PhD is for applicants who normally already hold a Masters qualification (or international equivalent) with a significant research element.
This usually means that your first degree will have included a thesis or dissertation at the final stage and some taught research methods.
Find out more about our programmes, facilities and support for our PhD students and the global reputation of the Business School.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/programmes/undergraduate:
With our rigorous curriculum and exceptional teaching, you’ll build world-class foundations for graduate employment or further study.
You’ll also get a taste of real business – learning from expert faculty members and guest speakers, as well as through hands-on work placements and international study opportunities.
With our flexible programmes, you’re in control – choosing a route that suits your own interests and career aspirations.
We are a triple accredited business school.
Founded in 1965, making us one of the UK's longest established business schools and we are proud to be integral to Durham University.
Durham University is in the World Top, QS World University Rankings 2023.
Study with us and prepare to stand out from the crowd.
Scholarships and bursaries are either funded by the University, through partnerships with external organisations or through generous donations from alumni and friends of the University.
Apply for your chosen course.
The UCAS site is packed with tools, including a handy personal statement builder.
For Durham University choose D86.
The fastest way to get an answer to your enquiry is to search our online FAQs.
If you can't find an answer, send your enquiry to us by completing our webform.
Our colleges are at the heart of life at Durham.
From day-to-day activities to special events, there are so many ways to make friends and have fun, while increasing your skills and experience.
Find out about our teaching excellence, explore our award-winning facilities, and experience our distinctive college communities.
Whatever new experiences you’re looking for, you’ll find your place within the evocative and historic surroundings of the city, county and community that is Durham.
Find your extraordinary
Find out more about life as a Durham University student blog.
You can filter by subject or read their profiles to find out what college they are a member of.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/for-business/executive-education:
Shaped from over 50 years’ experience working with regional, national and international private and public sector clients, our progressive executive education delivers immediate results for individuals and organisations.
Flexible and consistent in quality, you’ll find a course to suit your needs, whatever your sector or location.
If you can’t see exactly what you’re looking for, contact us so we can create a bespoke course to reflect your requirements.
Delivered fully online, in a part-time study format, our new MSc in Accounting Analytics and Sustainability (MAAS) is an executive-level programme delivered in three phases over 48 months.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about:
Educating business executives since 1965, Durham University Business School is in the heart of the historic city of Durham, on the banks of the River Wear.
Our academic excellence and meaningful impact are consistently reflected in our accreditations and global rankings.
At Durham University Business School, we drive excellence in research, education, and industry engagement.
From pioneering research and transformative teaching to strong regional impact and a global network, we shape the future of business and society.
Our vision is to lead and inform business thought and practice to enhance equity, prosperity, and well-being.
Our mission is to develop and enthuse leaders and entrepreneurs who create, share and use knowledge to deliver equitable and sustainable futures around the world Professor Kieran Fernandes, Executive Dean of School expands on this, our strengths and our ambitions in his introductory video
Our mission is to develop and enthuse leaders and entrepreneurs who create, share and use knowledge to deliver equitable and sustainable futures around the world
Professor Kieran Fernandes, Executive Dean of School expands on this, our strengths and our ambitions in his introductory video
In the next 6 decades, we aim to attain a Top 50 global business school ranking by enhancing research and teaching excellence and graduate employability.
We will continue to meet the challenges and demands of the ever-changing global business education landscape and take forward our learnings by integrating cutting-edge technology, contemporary business practices, and leading research into our programmes.
Collaboration will remain at the head of our approach to education.
We will continue to seek opportunities to develop partnerships with overseas education providers while we continue to expand our executive education and global thought leadership.
Business and industry engagement is a fundamental pillar of our strategic vision, underpinning research impact, teaching relevance, and global influence.
We will evolve our stakeholder engagement strategy in response to technological advancements, shifting industry needs, and global market dynamics.
The expansion of our executive education and professional development programmes - including micro-credentials, degree apprenticeships, and CPD tailored to regional business needs - will position us as the leading business school for regional economic development, sustainability, and entrepreneurship.
Guided by the philosophy of “local to global” we aspire to remain at the forefront of global business education and research while honouring our rich heritage.
Through a steadfast commitment to quality, innovation, and transformation, we will continue to inspire the next generation of leaders, shaping industries and societies worldwide.
We will do this by strengthening our global strategic partnerships.
In enterprise and innovation, we will strive to think globally and act locally.
Our contributions to the space industry through our European Space Laboratory status will provide new opportunities for innovation and knowledge transfer.
This work will also benefit initiatives such as Smart & Scale , supporting North-East SMEs, including those in the growing space sector.
Our research will continue to drive impactful outcomes for businesses and organisations of all sizes and across all geographies.
We will prioritise research with policy and industry impact.
Research will strengthen our engagement.
On a regional level our insights into sustainability and Net Zero business transformation will help drive the North East and Yorkshire Net Zero Hub and the Tees Valley Hydrogen Initiative.
The Durham University Space Research Centre (SPARC) with the School’s input on space policy and sustainability policies will show impact on a multi-national and global scale.
We aim to be a global top five business school for sustainability research and space business innovation.
Alongside these we will build on research strengths to be a leading school in Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) investment, green finance, carbon markets and circular economy innovations.
Our agenda will focus on artificial intelligence (AI), digital transformation, and data-driven decision-making, addressing how AI reshapes business strategy, leadership, and financial decision-making.
We will deliver a holistic research-informed view on the future of work will examine workforce automation, digital competencies, and AI-assisted leadership.
Join us as we redefine what is possible in business education worldwide.
We have evolved through decades of growth, innovation, and impact.
Founded as the Durham Business Research Unit in 1960, we became one of the UK’s first business schools in 1965, setting a benchmark for innovation from the start with our first programme, the Modern Management Techniques course.
This programme brought research-driven insights directly to businesses in the North East of England.
From the outset, we engaged closely with industry.
We championed entrepreneurship by establishing the Small Business Centre, supporting Small and Medium-sized Enterprise ( SMEs) through workshops and consultancy services.
In 1977, the opening of our purpose-built building at Mill Hill Lane provided a dedicated space to deliver transformative education and research.
This pivotal year also marked the launch of the School's first enterprise course.
In 1986, we set a new standard for business education with the launch of our full-time Master of Business Administration ( MBA) programme.
Two years later, we pioneered flexible learning with the introduction of our distance-learning MBA.
By 1994, we achieved our first AMBA accreditation for all our MBA programmes, affirming our position as a leader in global business education.
The 2000s marked a period of significant growth and innovation.
We launched the Durham Doctor of Business programme that extended our influence in executive education.
Our crowning achievement came in 2009, when we secured triple-accreditation, earning AACSB accreditation alongside AMBA and EQUIS.
In 2019, the School’s success in international business research and education was recognised as it became the fourth faculty of Durham University.
This elevation provided greater access to resources and enhanced our status within the sector.
The early 2020s saw the School retain the triple-crown with exemplary 5-year re-accreditations from EQUIS, AMBA and AACSB - a testament to our enduring quality.
We reflect on six decades of shaping business leaders and fostering innovation.
This milestone is a testament to our dedicated community of students, faculty, and alumni.
Learn more about our history.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/60th-anniversary:
Since the launch of our first programme in 1965, we have shaped generations of leaders, advanced ground-breaking research, and built a strong global community.
Throughout the year, we will celebrate this milestone with a series of events, collaborations, and special initiatives - honouring our past, showcasing our present, and looking ahead to an ambitious future.
Join us as we reflect on our journey and celebrate the people and partnerships that have made our success possible.
Journey through six decades, highlighting our key milestones, breakthroughs, and achievements that have defined our legacy.
Each decade reflects a commitment to empowering our students, driving change in business, and preparing leaders who shape the business world of today.
Six decades of innovation, growth, and success.
This collection showcases a range of photos and articles that capture key moments, milestones, and memories from across the years.
From our beginning to becoming a leading institution.
Mill Hill Lane celebration
Mill Hill Lane Workshop
Technology of the time - 1977
Mill Hill Lane Bar and Common Room
Business School Dinner
Graduation cohort
MBA 2013 students
Lecture in Business School
Mill Hill Lane Seminar
Masterclass Smart and Scale
Graduation 2024
Waterside 2024

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/faculty-executive-team:
Meet our Durham University Business School leadership team.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/vision-mission:
Research-led and connected to the real world of business, our influence is recognised by students and stakeholders across the globe.
Internationally accredited, Durham University Business School is proudly integral to one of the world’s prestigious Universities.
Our vision is to lead and inform business thought and practice to enhance equity, prosperity and well-being.
Our mission is to develop and enthuse leaders and entrepreneurs who create, share and use knowledge to deliver equitable and sustainable futures around the world.
Our commitment to the UN Principles for Responsible Management Education continues and is embedded within our Strategic framework.
We believe that our Vision, Mission and Strategic Framework are entirely consistent with the Principles for Responsible Management Education and the development of our work in relation to the six principles is, and will continue to be, an essential component of who we are as a School.
Read our latest PRME Report 2022 .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/rankings:
Triple accreditation, or the “Triple Crown”, is only achieved by a select few of the best business schools in Europe.
Durham University Business School has the privilege of being accredited by the three most important accreditation organisations AACSB, AMBA and EFMD/EQUIS.
Financial Times Global MBA (2025)
Economist Which MBA (2022)
QS Global MBA (2025)
Corporate Knights Better World MBA (2024)
Financial Times Online MBA Ranking (2025)
QS Online MBA Ranking (2025)
QS World University Rankings: Masters in Finance (2025)
QS World University Rankings: Masters in Management (2025)
QS World University Rankings: Masters in Marketing (2025)
QS World University Rankings: Masters in Supply Chain Management (2025)
QS World University Rankings: Masters in Business Analytics (2025)
58th (Global) 48th (Europe) 12th (UK)
Financial Times Masters in Finance Ranking 2025

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/equality-diversity-and-inclusion:
At Durham University Business School, we make sure that the principles of equality, diversity and inclusion permeate everything we do.
We are proud to be a highly diverse community of students and staff, representing a multitude of backgrounds, perspectives, approaches and needs.
We recognise and respect differences, we value the opportunity to study and work together, and we are always excited to learn from each other.
Through a range of initiatives across all our activities, we continuously strive to make our School more equitable and inclusive for everyone.
We have a dual emphasis on celebrating diversity and leveraging its positive aspects to the benefit of all members of our community, and on eliminating negative behaviours and attitudes such as prejudice, discrimination and harassment.
Below you will find examples of the work we have been conducting recently in order to implement our EDI agenda.
Creating a more inclusive working environment (“Working Well Together”)
As a Business School, one of the things that we teach our students is how to make businesses and other types of organisations more equitable and inclusive.
But we do not stop at teaching it, as we are also committed to making Durham University Business School a more equitable and inclusive working environment.
In the academic year 2022/23, we introduced a set of small yet powerful modifications to our working practices with the view to make them more inclusive and reduce the level of stress and pressure everybody is under.
We encourage staff to embed these changes in their working practices.
They  include:
We keep exploring how to make our working practices more equitable, inclusive and sustainable so watch this space to find out about additional initiatives which we will be introducing in the coming months!
Social impact
Durham University Business School’s academics conduct world-class research which is both academically rigorous and socially impactful.
We make the world a more equitable and inclusive place through generating actionable knowledge, providing recommendations for public policy and business practice, and working with communities locally, regionally and internationally.
To find out about the positive social impact that DUBS research makes, check our Impact Hub pages.
Decolonising the Curriculum (DtC)
The call to decolonise universities across the globe has gained significant momentum in recent years, leading many universities to begin reviewing their curricula through a decolonising lens.
This is a University-wide project at Durham, and is being undertaken in collaboration with the Durham University Students’ Union.
Every year, we fund student interns to work closely with academic staff in each Department as well as at School level on a range of projects related to decolonising our curriculum (DtC).
Our ambition is to make sure that all students, upon completing a degree within Durham University Business School, will have had significant exposure to the issues and debates that are directly relevant to the decolonisation agenda.
Our journey towards decolonising the curriculum has culminated in the launch in summer 2023 of the DUBS Decolonising the Curriculum Toolkit.
The DtC Toolkit brings together a set of guidance, practical advice and resources aimed at supporting our educators in their curriculum development work through sharing relevant research and best practices.
In developing the DtC toolkit, we drew on the expertise and perspectives of staff and students interns in each Department through identifying and implementing DtC principles within “pilot” modules.
Athena SWAN
Advance HE’s Athena SWAN Charter recognises and celebrates good practices in higher education towards the advancement of gender equality.
Institutions and individual departments can apply for one of three levels of award – Bronze, Silver and Gold.
Both Durham University and the Business School currently hold the Bronze Award, and are in the process of applying for the Silver Award.
This means that we have undertaken a thorough self-examination of where we are at with gender equality across the Faculty, and that we have developed a detailed action plan to help us address gendered inequalities in the institution.
Our renewed key priorities identified in working towards the Silver Award are:
Race Equality Charter
As with Athena SWAN, the School is also committed to Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter (REC).
In March 2019, Durham University signed up to the REC, which aims to improve the representation, progression and success of racially minoritised communities within higher education.
REC provides a robust framework that guides the University in identifying and evaluating institutional and cultural barriers that stand in the way of racially minoritised staff and students.
Durham University was awarded a REC Bronze Award in July 2022.
EDI Fora
To support an ongoing dialogue and to create space for mutual learning, the School runs a regular series of seminars and workshops with internal and external contributors: the EDI Fora.
These provide an open and safe space to discuss EDI challenges among the School and University community.
The events held over the year have included keynote talks to mark Black History Month and International Women’s Day, a LGBTQ+ workshop and EDI training opportunities.
Get Involved
Everyone has a part to play, but what part you play, is your choice.
They are all important.
Staff and students can get involved in making the Business School more equitable and inclusive.
The School has two EDI Co-Leads as well as Departmental EDI Leads in each of the four Departments.
If you are interested in getting more involved in EDI work, please do contact one of them or your line manager.
If we all do this, then we can make Durham University Business School a place where we can all flourish.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/departments:
Within the four departments of Accounting, Economics, Finance, Management and Marketing at the Business School, our programmes shape successful careers and our research spans disciplines, geographies and industries.
We feed fresh thinking and push the boundaries of how businesses work.
From social policy and economic growth to international development, our research is renowned and relevant around the world.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/our-locations:
We are located across two sites:
Our Department of Management and Marketing is located at Waterside, and our Departments of Accounting, Economics and Finance will remain at Mill Hill Lane until further notice.
Teaching occurs across campus, and staff, students and visitors will have access to both locations.
Durham is just three hours by train from London, and less than two from Edinburgh.
With Newcastle and Durham Tees Valley international airports nearby, plus the Port of Tyne, a warm welcome awaits students from across the World.
Durham City is home to one of the most recognisable landmarks in the UK, the majestic Durham Cathedral.
Together with adjacent Durham Castle, this UNESCO World Heritage Site forms one of the most stunning city panoramas in Europe.
View our Visitors Map for more information on our Business Schools locations.
Durham is 30 minutes drive from Newcastle International Airport and about 40 minutes from Teesside International Airport .
Both have regular domestic connections and international flights.
Daily ferry services between Newcastle Port of Tyne and Amsterdam.
Durham University Business School is based in the city of Durham, located in the North East of the UK.
Take a video tour of the Waterside building and Mill Hill Lane sites.
Discover our impressive new Waterside building, situated in the vibrant heart of Durham City Centre at DH1 1SL.
Nestled within the exciting new innovation district along the picturesque banks of the River Wear, this prime location embodies the spirit of progress and creativity.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/research:
We work with partners in the UK, around the world and across industry sectors to push boundaries and inform policy – not just keeping up with the latest developments, but setting the agenda to lead business thinking.
Our world-class academics work across all major business-related disciplines, and we actively pursue opportunities to work in partnership with organisations to further research thinking.
Our research has contributed to significant advances in social policy, economic growth and international development.
Durham University is a world top 100 university, with 12 of our subjects ranked in the world top 50 and 19 in the world top 100.
We conduct innovative and impactful research to transform lives and make a difference, globally and locally.
Our research covers subject areas across our three departments of Accounting, Economics and Finance, and Management and Marketing.
Imagine the Workplace of the Future
Employment Status and Dignity at Work: Is the Future of Work Made in the Past and Present?
The Future of ESG Impact: Who is going to resource it all?
How Imposturism Can Make You a Better Leader
Number Game
The Rise and Fall of Interpersonal Trust at Work

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/research/centres:
Our world-leading experienced academics and active research centres deliver impactful research across the global business world, informing policy and changing business practice.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/research/work-with-us:
Our research is internationally renowned, both for its academic rigour and the benefits it brings to society as a whole.
We work with partners around the world to push boundaries – not just keeping up with the latest developments, but setting the agenda and leading business thinking.
We work with partners in all sectors to inform policy and to develop innovative approaches to thinking and problem-solving.
Research into the global economic system, including all economic activities which are conducted both within and between nations.
Our hub and IMPACT magazine showcases our multi-disciplinary research supporting and leading business across the globe.
Our world-leading experienced academics and active research centres deliver real results for organisations.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/research/visiting-doctoral-students:
Whilst at the School, visiting students may join existing taught modules to support their research.
As a Visiting Doctoral Student, you will receive no credit or qualification from the University for either the research they undertake or any taught modules they join.
Please see here for fee information.
As a Visiting Doctoral Students you will be paired with a Department Collaborator at the School based on your shared research interests.
They will act as a link to the School, the University and Durham, and will help you take full advantage of all the opportunities on offer.
This includes:
You are expected to prepare a short report on your achievements and experience at the School, and to submit this to your Department Collaborator and Head of Department.
For more information please contact business.researchhub@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/research/visiting-academics:
We welcome applications for visits of up to one year from scholars at all stages of their careers.
You will be paired with a Department Collaborator from the School based on your shared research interests.
They will act as a link to the School, the University and Durham, and help you to take full advantage of all the opportunities on offer.
Visiting Academics should hold a PhD or have submitted their thesis for examination.
As a Visiting Academics you will be expected to prepare a short report on your achievements and experience at the Business School.
Length of stay (maximum one year)
Fee (excluding VAT)*
Per month
£250
A full academic year (12 months)
£3000
*VAT (20%) is chargeable to all UK and overseas visitors unless they are students.
Please Note:
Please email business.researchhub@durham.ac.uk for more information on how to apply .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/impact:
As leadership strategies, finance, society, sustainability goals, entrepreneurship and the world economy continually evolve, businesses face an ever-changing range of complex problems.
Multi-disciplinary research provides solutions to many of these challenges.
Take a closer look at our business disciplines and explore our case-based research, led by our team of outstanding researchers.
Subscribe to receive our IMPACT email newsletter by completing a short form.
Unsubscribe at any point.
Our mission is to develop and enthuse leaders and entrepreneurs who create, share and use knowledge to deliver equitable and sustainable futures around the world.
Professor Kieran Fernandes, Executive Dean of the School expands on how we lead, impact and innovate across the business world through our research, business thinking and expert opinion in this introductory video
Choose one of the topics below to view our research articles:
Durham University Business School's thought-leadership magazine.
IMPACT showcases the impact we have throughout our communities and the business world.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/impact/mag:
You can read how our high calibre research impacts different industries regionally, nationally and across the globe, as well as all about our school activities and achievements, which are testament to our excellent students, staff, researchers, business connections, partners and alumni.
Find out how we lead, impact and innovate across the business world through our research, business thinking and expert opinion.
To subscribe to the School's IMPACT email newsletter please complete this short form.
You can unsubscribe at any point.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events:
Find out more about our latest research news, programme events and our podcast series.
A series of podcasts hosted by Professor Joanna Berry, Associate Dean for Engagement and Professor of Entrepreneurship at the Business School.
Listen to business insights from industry experts, balanced with the latest academic thinking, as they explore the art and science of leadership.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/both-sides-:
The Both Sides podcast features a series of discussions on the art and science of business leadership, hosted by Professor Joanna Berry , Associate Dean for Engagement and Professor of Entrepreneurship at Durham University Business School.
In each episode, we reveal the secrets to building strong teams, fostering innovation, and navigating the complexities of the modern business landscape.
Tune into Both Sides to unlock your leadership potential and transform your career.
Both Sides brings you business insights from industry experts, balanced with the latest academic thinking.
We also provide practical tips to help you lead with confidence and make an impact.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/events:
The School is hosting the 14th International Labour and Employment Relations Association (ILERA) European Congress here in Durham on 10-12 September 2025.
This event will bring together leading researchers, practitioners, and professionals from around the world to share their latest research.
10 September 2025 - 12 September 2025
Durham University Business School
Durham
United Kingdom
Join us online on Thursday 18 September for the QS Discover Masters & MBA Fair in Riyadh.
18 September 2025
5:00 PM - 8:30 PM
Sheraton Riyadh Hotel & Towers, King Abdullah Branch Rd, Riyadh
Join us at the Access MBA Fair in Paris, France, on Saturday 27 September.
27 September 2025
1:00 PM - 4:00 PM
Paris
Join us at the QS Discover Masters Fair in Rome on Wednesday 8 October.
08 October 2025
4:00 PM - 7:30 PM
Rome
Join leading academics, regulators, and industry experts at the QRFE Workshop on Blockchain-Based Markets & FinTech on October 10, 2025, to explore how tokenization of real-world assets could transform capital markets.
10 October 2025
Durham University Business School
Join us at the Access Masters Fair in Munich on Friday 10 October.
5:00 PM - 8:00 PM
Munich
Join us at the QS Discover Masters Fair in Tokyo on Thursday 28 October.
28 October 2025
3:30 PM - 9:30 PM
Tokyo
Join us at the Access One-to-One MBA Fair in Toronto on Wednesday 12 November.
12 November 2025
5:30 PM - 9:00 PM

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/virtual-tour:
Explore Durham University Business School and its location within Durham City, the surrounding facilities and the nearest accommodation.
Your browser does not support iframes.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/for-business:
For over 55 years, we have built strong connections with businesses across the world, and across a range of industries and sectors.
Your business can benefit from working with some of the most high-calibre, independent and globally-aware students and graduates in the world, through our business projects, or recruiting them as interns, on placement and as employees.
Our world-leading academics can also support your organisation through collaborative impactful research, and work with you to develop the executive education programmes you need for you and your employees.
We offer a wealth of ways to work with you.
Explore the areas below to discover our executive programmes, internships and placements, academic collaboration and consultancy, and how we can help you recruit our international students and alumni.
Access our talent, resources, knowledge and experience through a Strategic Business Project.
We offer you the opportunity for one of our students to analyse a piece of data at an advanced level to provide you with valuable business insights.
Find out more about how we can work with your business
Mill Hill Lane
Durham DH1 3LB
UK
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 5200

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/for-business/working-with-our-academics:
Our world-leading academics impact business across the globe, seeking out innovative ways to support organisations to do everything they need.
From improving efficiency to managing change, and from fully utilising the technical revolution to understand customer behaviour, our faculty can help.
You can work with our academics in the following ways detailed below, just get in touch with us to find out more:
79% of the School’s research has been assessed as 'internationally excellent quality' or 'world-leading'.
This result reflects the international breadth and quality of our research.
Our academics expertise and knowledge cover different fields including entreprenuership, leadership, economy, finance, sustainability, society and much more, including all sectors and every aspect of modern business.
We also offer our knowledge and experience on a consultancy basis, giving you direct access to our team of thought leaders.
You provide the challenge and we will give you well-informed, practical answers.
We have worked in sectors ranging from finance and HRM to decision science and leadership.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/for-business/business-projects:
A Business Project with us can help you tackle issues or opportunities you may not have the time or resources to address, give an objective insight you need, deliver practical recommendations specific to your business, and much more.
Many of the world’s leading businesses have already benefited from Business Projects.
Here are just some of the many benefits:
We want to make sure both sides benefit from the experience, so we will work closely with you from the outset.
We’ll collaborate to generate consultancy ideas and ensure the project meets academic and business demands.
Students work with companies on a consultancy-type basis.
They are allocated an academic supervisor from the Business School and require a supervisor from the company to offer guidance and support throughout the period.
They will spend a relatively short amount of time on-site in order to speak to relevant staff and gather the data that they need for the project.
However, they will keep in regular contact via meetings (in person or virtual), email and telephone.
We understand that many of our projects will touch on confidential company information, so we will always work with complete integrity and discretion.
MBA students have an average of seven years’ management experience and tackle a broad range of business issues, whereas Business Analytics students can offer to conduct an in-depth analysis of data, at an advanced level, to investigate a particular business issue.
Projects will tackle important business issues or areas for strategic development and can be internally facing (for example, hiring strategy, corporate culture, corporate social responsibility) or externally facing (for example, marketing strategies, client relationship management, or competitor analysis).
Across both programmes, students seek to apply their academic teaching and theories to practical real-life examples, culminating in a strategic report with recommendations for your business.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/for-business/recruiting-our-students:
Durham students have always been sought after by recruiters.
They are very employable, you could say.
Experience the benefits of working with some of the most high-calibre, independent and globally-aware graduates in the world.
Whether they’re U ndergraduate , Masters or MBA students or alumni, here’s what sets them apart.
We provide world-class academic teaching, as well as a career development and skills programme.
With us, learning goes beyond purely instilling knowledge.
We place equal weighting on nurturing independent thinking, instinct and interpersonal skills.
The combination of their academic experience with opportunities to enhance their knowledge and skills through extra-curricular activities, via our college and extensive Clubs and Societies network, produces well-rounded individuals – individuals who possess the skills required to secure a job in the most competitive of industries.
It's this blend of the practical and perceptive that enables our students to add real value.
We attract students from around the world, and from multiple industries and roles.
This environment mirrors the wider business world, helping our students understand cultural differences and the importance of communication.
Over the years, our students have joined many leading companies including Citi, Accenture, Nissan and Vodafone.
Whether you’re looking for a permanent employee, placement student or intern, our careers team can help you connect with the expertise you need.
As an top international business school, we are well placed to support your company’s recruitment and succession plans across the globe.
Find out how our students and graduates can support your business growth.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/for-business/working-with-our-students:
From three-month consultancy projects to mutually enriching placements and internships, we offer diverse opportunities for your organisation to work with our students.
Partnerships are at the heart of all our programmes.
We see them as both a chance to benefit our students through real world work experience, and to add to your business through new skills and ideas.
Find out more about our Business Projects, Internships and Placements and read about how Durham students have already added tangible value to their host organisation on this page – we could do the same for you.
Alternatively, just get in touch.
Find out how our students can work with your organisation through Business Projects, Internships and Placements.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/for-business/supporting-smes-:
Smart & Scale (S&S) is an interdisciplinary impact-driven research programme in smart and scale-up activities, focusing on innovation and business development of SMEs in the North-East of England.
SMEs have faced extraordinary challenges over the past few years because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Brexit, and the soaring cost of business.
SMEs in the UK are said to be going through a “triple transition” (Enterprise Research Centre, 2021) that brings together three interrelated challenges of digitalisation, net zero and productivity.
At Durham University Business School, S&S is designed to support SME innovation, scale up, resilience, and economic development in the North-East.
It is underpinned by four key research themes that represent key challenges in the region: New Business Models, Leadership, Emerging Technologies, and Supply Chains.
Specifically, S&S provides support through research projects with expert academics designed to enable SME innovation (Smart) and the development of growth focused business models (Scale).
We also offer a Visiting SME Fellows programme, SME masterclasses, and opportunities to incubate new ideas through our Entrepreneurs in Residence programme.
For researchers, we offer opportunities to work with business in the North-East of England, post-doctoral researcher positions and PhD scholarships.
For enquiries, please contact us on: smartandscaleteam@durham.ac.uk
Jonathan Kimmitt , Professor of Entrepreneurship, S&S Academic Lead
Katherine Kirby , S&S Business Development Manager
Jeffrey Hughes , Associate Professor of Strategy & Entrepreneurship, S&S Associate
David Johnson , Associate Professor of Entrepreneurship, S&S Associate
At the forefront of innovation and discovery, the Smart & Scale programme bring together a vibrant community of scholars and North East SMEs.
If you would like to find out more about our Smart & Scale programme send us an email.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/our-people:
With a shared passion for exceptional teaching and research, we bring together experts from around the world.
Our people make Durham University Business School one of the most respected business schools in the UK.
Their global experience, outstanding research insight and real business connections keep us at the leading edge.
Use our people search below to query by name, section or subject area.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/our-people/advisory-board:
The Advisory Board is made up of senior executives and academics from a corporate background whose close connections help ensure our graduates are prepared for the real world of business.
The members of the Advisory Board play a vital role in the School’s strategic direction, offering independent guidance on the key issues that affect the School, its relationships and its development.
The Board members’ particular areas of expertise mean the School benefits from having spokespeople in a variety of fields – from business and academia to government and the voluntary sector.
With this group of experts to challenge and support us, we can be confident that our leading-edge programmes remain internationally relevant and that we can continue to grow as a prestigious and respected institution.
Chairman and Board Director of a wide range of public and voluntary sector organisations.
Venture Partner at Merian Ventures
Founder, Invisible Thread Ltd
Founding Partner of Gusto Luxe and Founding Partner/Vice Chair of Gusto Collective
Director, Digital Aviation, Market and Solutions Research, Jeppesen
Chairman of Bouygues UK, UK County Manager of Bouygues Construction
US Government Sales Executive, Pasqal
Various Chair and Board Member positions across a wide range of organisations

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/our-people/professors-in-practice:
Professors in Practice are experienced professionals across a wide variety of disciplines and sectors, who share their skills and knowledge directly with students, bringing public distinction and practical insights to the classroom.
The i nitiative provides the opportunity for the University’s faculty to directly connect with business practice and public policy, enabling their research to have an actionable, positive impact on society.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/contact-us:
There are different ways to contact Durham Business School, depending on your enquiry.
Please use the different routes provided, whether you want to contact a department, are a current applicant, or if you wish to speak to corporate relations.
For all general enquiries to Mill Hill Lane
Durham University Business School, Mill Hill Lane, Durham DH1 3LB, United Kingdom
For all general enquiries to Durham Business School Waterside building.
The Waterside Building Riverside Place Durham United Kingdom DH1 1SL
If you've applied or you're thinking or applying for one of our Masters, MBA, DBA, PhD or undergraduate programmes, please use our web form to make your enquiry.
Ask Us a Question
Find the answer to your question on our knowledge base
Accounting business.dept.accounting@durham.ac.uk
Economics business.dept.economics@durham.ac.uk
Finance business.dept.finance@durham.ac.uk
Management and Marketing business.dept.mgmtmrktg@durham.ac.uk
For all business-to-business enquiries.
Durham University Business School, Mill Hill Lane, Durham DH1 3LB, United Kingdon.
For all press and media enquiries relating to Durham Business School.
For all enquiries relating to Durham Business School alumni.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/discover/qs-world-university-rankings:
Our global reputation for employability reflects the quality and relevance of our education and research.
This has been affirmed once again in the QS World University Rankings 2026 where we rank within the world top 100.
We also have a strong academic reputation – testament to the international impact of our world-leading academics and the strength of our industrial and business partnerships.
We rank particularly strongly on global reputation for employability (64th ), and rank 22nd in the world for Sustainability.
We have a best-ever 21 subjects in the world top 100, in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025.
Three subjects are in the top ten, and eight are in the top 50.
Find out more about how we're leading on revolutionary research, offering inspiration and reaching new heights.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer/clearing/apply:
To find out which courses are currently available in Clearing, please check UK Clearing Opportunities or International Clearing Opportunities .
If you have questions regarding Clearing, please contact clearing.support@durham.ac.uk or check our Clearing FAQs , Essential Guide for Students , or Essential Guide for Parents and Carers .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer/clearing/international:
We aim to select the most able and motivated applicants who can best benefit from a Durham University education.
We are still interested in hearing from you even if you have not met our typical offer requirements.
Please get in touch to discuss your options.
Explore our courses in Clearing below, then c all our hotline on 0800 987 4120 or fill in the our Clearing application form
UCAS Code
Course Name
Status
N408
Accounting BSc
Open
N409
Accounting with Placement Year BSc
N410
Accounting with Study Abroad BSc
NN43/N311
Accounting and Finance BSc
N302/N312
Accounting and Finance with Placement Year BSc
B991
Health and Human Sciences BSc
L601
Anthropology BSc
LL36
Anthropology and Sociology BA
L602
Anthropology BA
LF64
Anthropology and Archaeology BA
F400
Archaeology BA
F402
Archaeology BSc
F411
Historical Archaeology
VQ48
Archaeology and Ancient Civilisations BA
VF14
Ancient History and Archaeology BA
C103
Biological Sciences BSc
C107
Biosciences Mbiol
C702
Biochemistry BSc
F100
Chemistry BSc
F102
Chemistry (International Route) MChem
F105
Chemistry Mchem
F111
Chemistry (Industrial Route) MChem
Q801
Classics BA
Q820
Classical Civilisation BA
V110
Ancient History BA
V101
Ancient, Medieval and Modern History BA
LMV0
Combined Honours in Social Sciences BA
View subject choices for combined honours .
G400
Computer Science BSc
G406
Computer Science MEng
F600
Geology BSc
F630
Environmental Geoscience BSc
F643
Geoscience BSc
F645
Climate Science BSc
F665
Geophysics BSc
F644
Earth Sciences MSci
L100/ L130
Economics BSc
L106/ L131
Economics with Placement Year BSc
L109/ L132
Economics with Study Abroad BSc
L103/ L133
Economics with Management BSc
L104/ L134
Economics with Management with Placement Year BSc
L105/ L135
Economics with Management with Study Abroad BSc
LL12
Economics and Politics BA
X305
Education Studies BA
X1F8
Education Studies - Geography BA
XL33
Education Studies - Sociology BA
X1C8
Education Studies - Psychology BA
H411
Aeronautical Engineering MEng
H211
Civil Engineering MEng
H214
Civil Engineering BEng
H511
Electrical Engineering MEng
H514
Electrical Engineering BEng
H711
Electronic Engineering MEng
H714
Electronic Engineering BEng
H811
Engineering Renewable Energy MEng
H100
General Engineering MEng
H103
General Engineering BEng
H311
Mechanical Engineering MEng
H314
Mechanical Engineering BEng
H911
Bioengineering BEng
Q300
English Literature BA
QV35
English Literature and Philosophy BA
QV21
English Literature and History BA
2C77/ N305
Finance BSc
2M83/N306
Finance with Placement Year BSc
8G15/N307
Finance with Study Abroad BSc
All foundation courses are closed.
F800
Geography BSc
L702
Geography BA
L200
Politics BA
L250
International Relations BA
L253
Politics and International Relations
V100
History BA
M101
Law LLB
Closed
LA01
Liberal Arts BA
N201
Business and Management BA
N203
Business and Management with Placement Year BA
N207
Business and Management with Study Abroad BA
N509
Marketing and Management BA
N510
Marketing and Management with Placement Year BA
N511
Marketing and Management with Study Abroad BA
G100
Mathematics BSc
G103
Mathematics MMath
G111
Mathematics and Statistics BSc
G114
Mathematics and Statistics MMath
R002
Modern Languages and Cultures with Year Abroad BA
T102
Chinese Studies with Year Abroad BA
T202
Japanese Studies with Year Abroad BA
VA01
Visual Arts and Film BA
RV92
Modern European Languages and History with Year Abroad BA
W300
Music BA
WV53
Music and Philosophy BA
G411
Computer Science and Mathematics BSc
G425
Computer Science and Mathematics MSci
L125
Economics and Mathematics BSc
CFG0
Natural Sciences MSci
FGC0
G430
Mathematics and Physics BSc
G427
CV85
Philosophy and Psychology BA
V500
Philosophy BA
LV25
Philosophy and Politics BA
VL52
Philosophy, Politics and Economics BA
F300
Physics BSc
F301
Physics MPhys
F344
Theoretical Physics MPhys
FF3N
Physics and Astronomy MPhys
X101
Primary Education BA
C800
Psychology BSc
C807
Psychological and Behavioural Science BSc
CL86
Psychology and Anthropology
L300
Sociology BA
L370
Criminology BA
C603
Sport, Exercise and Physical Activity BA
C606
Sport and Exercise Sciences BSc
V614
Theology and Religion BA
V617
Religion, Society and Culture BA
VV56
Philosophy and Theology BA

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/courses/international-business-n2pd09:
MSc
1 year
Durham City
N2PD09
Our MSc International Business course recognises the international nature of modern-day commerce and develops the skills you need to successfully negotiate the realities of business management in a global context.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of this ever-growing area of contemporary business through core and optional modules and will complete a practical business project or a research-based dissertation.
The core modules consider international business management, leadership in a global context, business environment in emerging economy, advanced data, global business strategy and analysis, digital and global business analytics, and global marketing management.
The range of optional modules offers the flexibility to tailor the course to your interests and aspirations, including studies in global environmental sustainability and corporate social responsibility, international entrepreneurship,), international human resource management, digital innovation and new media in international business, East Asian business and management and international study tour.
Fittingly, this one-year full-time course offers a significant international element to your learning.
You will have the opportunity to participate in international study tours and summer schools with our overseas academic and business partners and also complete your dissertation abroad.
On campus, you will be able to take part in events and activities that will enhance your business knowledge and experience.
In addition to presentations by guest speakers with huge international business management experience, you will be able to take part in the University’s annual Blueprint Startup Challenge.
We are proud of the Business School’s reputation for academic excellence.
We are accredited by all three major business accreditation bodies, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, the Association of MBAs and the European Quality Improvement System.
We are equally proud of the School’s vibrant, supportive and stimulating learning environment experience, created by academic staff who are experts in their field and passionate about sharing their knowledge.
Business Environment in Emerging Economy explores the complexities of doing business in emerging economies.
You will examine the differences between emerging and developed economies and the particularities of the internationalisation of emerging market multinationals.
Business Environment in Emerging Economy
explores the complexities of doing business in emerging economies.
International Business Management (IBM) provides you with the skills for managing a diverse range of international businesses.
It also aims to provide insights into the effects of formal and informal institutions inherent in managing businesses across borders.
International Business Management (IBM)
provides you with the skills for managing a diverse range of international businesses.
Global Business Strategy and Analysis explores the theories and practice of business management in the existing global environment.
You will examine the drivers behind globalisation, the global expansion of corporations, and management in organisations that operate across borders.
Global Business Strategy and Analysis
explores the theories and practice of business management in the existing global environment.
Leadership in a Global Context will help students acquire the skills, understanding, and mindset crucial for becoming leaders in global business and international, multicultural organizations.
Students will develop the skills needed to operate in diverse geographical contexts, groups of individuals, and institutions, mobilising people and resources toward common objectives within a global business context.
The module also seeks to develop a deeper understanding of leadership roles in NGOs, businesses, and international corporations.
It also aims to equip students with cutting-edge leadership knowledge and research.
Leadership in a Global Context
will help students acquire the skills, understanding, and mindset crucial for becoming leaders in global business and international, multicultural organizations.
Advanced Data, Digital and Global Business Analytics seeks to equip students with practical digital and business analytics skills crucial for organising, managing, and transforming global businesses.
These skills are also essential for cultivating and embedding data-driven decision-making and culture.
The module will introduce students to a diverse range of tools crucial for analysing and interpreting large amounts of data to inform cross-border business decisions.
Advanced Data, Digital and Global Business Analytics
seeks to equip students with practical digital and business analytics skills crucial for organising, managing, and transforming global businesses.
Global Marketing Management offers an in-depth introduction to strategic management, marketing planning, and professional marketing practice.
You will explore how to develop a professional strategic marketing plan successfully.
Global Marketing Management
offers an in-depth introduction to strategic management, marketing planning, and professional marketing practice.
Global Environmental Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility strives to equip students with up-to-date knowledge on contemporary environmental issues such as resource depletion, carbon footprint, and the roles of a diverse range of stakeholders in driving changes and addressing these issues.
This module provides an overview of the contemporary economic, legislative, and political challenges in combating environmental issues and minimising the environmental footprint of businesses.
Global Environmental Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility
strives to equip students with up-to-date knowledge on contemporary environmental issues such as resource depletion, carbon footprint, and the roles of a diverse range of stakeholders in driving changes and addressing these issues.
Research Methods and Dissertation gives you the opportunity to conduct an in-depth investigation into an issue relevant to your degree.
You will gain an understanding of the key principles of research design and methodology in business and management and develop your skills in conducting and communicating research at an advanced level.
The module will also give you the opportunity to undertake research abroad at a partner university.
You can choose to undertake a business project in place of the traditional dissertation format, working with a host organisation or carry out an issue-led investigation across a range of organisations on a specific management issue.
Research Methods and Dissertation
gives you the opportunity to conduct an in-depth investigation into an issue relevant to your degree.
Examples of optional modules:
You also choose a number of optional modules which have previously included:
The course is delivered through a combination of lectures, seminars and practical sessions.
Lectures provide the base knowledge on key course subjects and from time to time are delivered by guest speakers who share with you their experiences in the business world.
Seminars take a small-group format, providing the physical and mental space to engage in debate and discussion as a follow-up to the lecture topics, and practical sessions take place in medium-sized groups, when you will practise working with computer software using the topics explored in lectures and seminars.
You will be expected to carry out significant independent study outside the timetabled contact hours to prepare for seminars, to follow up on lectures and for assessments.
Teaching staff are available to provide support on a one-to-one basis through weekly consultation hours, and you will also have individual guidance meetings with your dissertation supervisor.
Modules are assessed via a combination of examinations, written assignments and reports, projects and presentations.
The range of assessment methods is designed to assess your knowledge and understanding of the material, test your capacity to solve problems, enhance your written and oral communication skills, and assess your ability to relate your learning to real-world issues.
The 12,000-word dissertation makes up one-third of your final-year marks.
Please note: The application process will open 1st October for entry the following academic year.
Our application deadline dates for this programme are:
There is a high demand for places on these programmes.
To maximise your chances of being offered one of these places, we recommend that you submit your application to the University as early as possible.
Should you miss the deadlines specified above, then it may be possible for the University to add your application to a waiting list, which may be consulted in the event that following review and processing of all applications received prior to the deadlines, vacant places remain available on the programme.
The University is under no obligation to make any offer of a place on the programme to any applicant, nor is the University obligated to fill all spaces available on the programme.
Consideration of any application received by the University after expiry of the deadlines specified herein, shall be made at the sole discretion of the University.
Masters in Management programmes are intended for graduates in any subject or discipline; no previous study in business or management is necessary.
For example, in the past we have had graduates from a diverse range of degrees such as Music, Anthropology, Medicine and Geography.
Business and Management undergraduate students may find some content overlaps with their first degree.
The equivalent of a UK first or upper second class honours degree.
Check the full list of equivalent qualifications .
If you are an international student who does not meet the requirements for direct entry to this degree, you may be eligible to take a pre-Masters pathway programme at the Durham University International Study Centre .
NB Chinese Applicants: Applications will be accepted from students who have graduated from a prestigious university in China.
Entry requirements may vary depending upon the reputation of the university you have graduated from and the academic programme you have applied for.
As a guide, applicants are expected to have achieved an overall average of 85%.
You will need to complete an online application form.
Please note you can only apply for one Masters Management programme.
>> Fill out the online application form
To support your online application form, you will need to provide the following documents.
You can either upload your supporting documents with your online application or email or fax them to the Postgraduate Admissions Office using the contact details below.
Note:
Only files of type .doc, .docx, .gif, .jpg, .pdf, .png, .rtf are permitted to be uploaded.
The maximum file size is 5MB.
Once we receive your online application form, you’ll get an automatic email within 48 hours asking you to pay the £60 application fee* which is required to progress your application.
You’ll need to follow the link in the email to the webpage where you can confirm your details and make the payment using a debit or credit card.
This is a secure website operated by Secpay, which will send you an automatic receipt of payment.
Once we receive confirmation that your application fee has been paid, we’ll be able to progress your application.
If you do not pay the application fee your application will be automatically withdrawn.
*Please note you will only be able to make a payment for one programme in each suite i.e.
one MSc Finance programme, one MSc Management programme, one MSc Economics programme.
If you’re applying for a full-time programme you’ll need to become a member of one of our Colleges as well as being accepted by a department.
Here’s more information about how the college system works .
Once you accept your programme offer, the College Postgraduate Office will get in touch with you to arrange accommodation.
Please note that demand for college accommodation usually exceeds availability, so please try to arrange it as soon as possible.
Here are the steps in the admissions process:
Please note: You must let us know your own personal email address when applying.
Please do not use a university-linked email which may stop working once you complete your bachelor degree.
International students who do not meet direct entry requirements for this degree might have the option to complete an International Foundation Year.
Home students who do not meet our direct entry requirements, may be eligible for our Foundation Programme which offers multidisciplinary programmes to prepare you for a range of specified degree programmes.
English language requirements
Country specific information
The tuition fees shown are for one complete academic year of study and are set according to the academic year of entry.
Fees will be subject to an annual inflationary increase and are expected to rise throughout the programme of study.
The fee listed above is for the first year of the course only.
More information is available here: Tuition fees - how much are they - Durham University
Please also check costs for colleges and accommodation .
We are committed to supporting the best students irrespective of financial circumstances and are delighted to offer a range of funding opportunities.
Our postgraduate programmes with a focus on employability fully equip you with the skills and industry insight to embark on a successful and rewarding business career.
The knowledge and understanding you develop reflect the Department’s values of sustainability, wellbeing and equality of opportunity across the globe.
You gain a combination of analytical and practical skills that employers value, such as independent thinking and problem-solving, and are able to enhance your people skills that are essential in business and much sought after by employers.
Our Department sits within the prestigious Durham University Business School.
It offers a significant academic opportunity to gain the vital skills to become a successful business leader or to carry out further research and make a major contribution to a sustainable business future.
Our Business, Management and Marketing programmes are delivered by the Department of Management and Marketing, one of four departments at Durham University Business School (alongside the Department of Accounting,  Department of Economics and Department of Finance).
The School is one of the UK’s longest established business schools and one of an elite group of institutions in the UK to be accredited by all three major bodies – the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the Association of MBAs (AMBA) and the European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS).
We consistently rank highly in independent league tables for both the quality and reputation of our Department, with teaching delivered by a world-class academic community that includes experienced business professionals and researchers who work across a wide variety of business disciplines.
We recruit students from around the world onto our postgraduate programmes.
Our students take part in live business projects, internships and placements as part of their studies, enabling them to apply their knowledge to practical challenges in the most forward thinking companies.
We have an active alumni network of more than 36,000 graduates in over 140 countries.
For more information see our department pages.
You’ll be taught across the university campus by world leading academics from the Business School.
You’ll have access to the Business Schools modern, spacious meeting rooms and study areas.
The university campus is within walking distance of the historic centre of Durham, a city with UNESCO World Heritage Status.
Resources include up-to-date financial information and online databases.
In addition, you’ll have access to Durham University’s prestigious libraries and archives.
Start your application now.
You can save your application and complete it later.
Join one of our virtual events, webinars, open events or recruitment fairs.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/courses/accounting-analytics-and-sustainability-l1t709:
4 years part-time
L1T709
Delivered fully online, in a part-time study format, our new MSc in Accounting Analytics and Sustainability (MAAS) is an executive-level programme, specifically designed for accounting and auditing professionals, or those interested in developing their data analytics and sustainability knowledge, skills and capabilities in the area of accounting.
Flexible study options to meet your learning journey
Offering great flexibility, the study programme has been created to allow you to continue in full-time employment, enabling you to achieve your personal and career aspirations, whilst also contributing to your CPD obligations.
You can tailor your study journey through the MSc Accounting Analytics and Sustainability programme, opting to complete the full four-year programme for the MSc qualification, or, depending on your circumstances, exit earlier with a Postgraduate Certificate or Postgraduate Diploma.
Delivered in three phases over 48 months, you will need to study and successfully complete the modules in each phase, before advancing to the next:
Phase 1 - Postgraduate Certificate
Phase 2 - Postgraduate Diploma
Phase 3 - MSc
You will enhance your awareness of technology, data analytics, ML and AI in the related fields of accounting and auditing, while improving your analytical skills and knowledge in sustainability, integrated reporting, and ESG areas, including ESG investment ratings and assurance analytics.
The programme is delivered by Durham University Business School, accredited by the AACSB, AMBA, and EQUIS, and recognised for its academic rigor and commitment to excellence.
You will learn from an outstanding academic team, world-class experts in their fields, which is reflected in their research, innovation and teaching.
Modules have been designed on this innovative new programme as a blend of academic knowledge, research and practitioner insight.
You will study analytics within the context of accounting and be able to link to the various sustainability issues that affect organisational survival.
Additionally, the programme provides hands-on experience in developing an analytical mindset, data interpretation, and insights development skills, alongside improving your technology and sustainability literacy.
The programme also offers a unique opportunity to build knowledge and skills in the high-demand areas of digitalisation and sustainability, giving you confidence in the level of quality of the service you’ll provide.
The full study programme is delivered in three phases over 48 months:
Phase 1 - Postgraduate Certificate in Accounting Analytics and Sustainability To achieve the PG Certificate level you will study: Introduction to Data Analytics and Visualisation Sustainability and Ethics Introduction to Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence Sustainability and Integrated Reporting
Phase 1 - Postgraduate Certificate in Accounting Analytics and Sustainability
To achieve the PG Certificate level you will study:
Phase 2 – Postgraduate Diploma in Accounting Analytics and Sustainability To achieve the PG Diploma, you will need to successfully complete Phase 1, then you will study: Natural Language Processing and Textual Analytics Sustainability Assurance Analytics Robotic Process Automation Research Methods and Design
Phase 2 – Postgraduate Diploma in Accounting Analytics and Sustainability
To achieve the PG Diploma, you will need to successfully complete Phase 1, then you will study:
Phase 3 – MSc Accounting Analytics and Sustainability To achieve the MSc you will need to successfully complete Phases 1 and 2, then you will study: Research Project
Phase 3 – MSc Accounting Analytics and Sustainability
To achieve the MSc you will need to successfully complete Phases 1 and 2, then you will study:
Each module will run over a semester of 10 weeks and will normally be delivered through a combination of collaborative work with peers, bespoke learning resources, self-reflection activities and live weekly webinars which will be recorded and shared.
Given the part-time structure and the expectation that most students will be in full-time employment whilst studying, you will complete one 15-credit module per semester.
The January – March semester has been left free due to the peak workload within the accounting profession.
You will have cloud-based access to essential software such as Tableau (for visualisation), Excel, STATA, R, MATLAB and Python (for analytics).
The programme incorporates contemporary case studies and extensive databases like Reuters, DataStream, WRDS, Refinitiv, and the EY Academic Portal to support your summative and formative assessments, all of which are submitted online.
At the final stage, you will complete a practice-based Research Project to be awarded a Masters degree.
The project will be based on an important business issue or opportunity for development, where you can apply your learning to your organisation's real-life example.
You’ll be supervised by an academic from the Business School, who has specialist knowledge and expertise in these topics.
The course will be assessed based on a selection of assignments which may include data analysis, self-reflection, peer assessment, and case study evaluation, depending on the learning outcomes and nature of each module.
All assessments will be submitted online and feedback will be provided electronically.
The MSc Accounting Analytics and Sustainability programme has been specifically designed for accounting or other professionals interested in developing their data analytics and sustainability knowledge, skills and capabilities in the area of accounting.
What do you need to apply?
How do I apply?
You will need to complete the online application form .
As well as your online application, please submit the following:
Note:Only files of type .doc, .docx, .gif, .jpg, .pdf, .png, .rtf are permitted to be uploaded.The maximum file size is 5MB.
Technical Requirements
Please view our Computing and Information Services page Your Digitial Equipment for information on hardware specifications to support your studies.
As a Business School Masters student, you'll have access to a dedicated postgraduate careers service offering a wide range of opportunities to help you develop the skills necessary for a global career.
We work in partnership with the University's careers team to connect you with events, organisations, or individuals to help kick-start your career.
You will have access to one-to-one support on every aspect of the application process, from CV writing to interview techniques.
Our graduates are highly sought after by global employers.
Some of our recent graduates now work in sectors including: financial services, healthcare, government and consultancy amongst many others.
Our MSc Accounting is an innovative programme designed to develop your critical thinking skills and provide an essential introduction to a career in accountancy and related fields.
It is taught by an outstanding academic team from the Department of Accounting
The Department of Accounting is one of four departments at Durham University Business School.
We offer a stimulating learning environment for our Masters students.
As an accountancy student you will be joining an academic department with an international reputation for research and teaching excellence.
The one-year, full-time MSc Accounting programme will help you develop key analytical and practical skills and is an ideal programme if you're looking to pursue a career in accounting but have no prior subject knowledge.
In addition, the programme carries exemptions from both the ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) and CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants), which can fast track your journey to membership of these organisations, making it easier for you to practice as an accountant.
We are proud of be a part of Durham University Business School, one of the UK’s longest established business schools and one of an elite group of institutions to be accredited by all three major accrediting bodies: the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the Association of MBAs (AMBA) and the European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS).
The MSc Accounting programme is taught across the Durham University campus by world leading faculty.
The University is situated in the historic centre of Durham, a city with UNESCO World Heritage Status.
Business School students have access to libraries and study spaces across the University.
Many of our learning resources are accessible online, including up-to-date financial information, industry-standard databases and access to over 10,000 journals.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/impact/society/is-your-home-life-holding-your-career-back-:
It’s a typical scenario: the alarm goes off in the morning, Mum gets up, washes and dresses before getting the children out of bed, preparing their breakfasts and getting them ready for school.
Packed lunches are made, uniforms are laid out and school bags are ready with signed slips for class trips and updated homework diaries.
Meanwhile, Dad gets up, showers and is ready for the office.
Everyone is out of the house by 8am – the children to school and both parents to work.
According to the Modern Families Index, published by Working Families and Bright Horizons Family Solutions, the vast majority of two-parent households operate with both parents working full-time hours (74% of those surveyed), with mothers increasingly being positioned as equal breadwinners.
It seems society has progressed!
Long gone are the days when mothers were expected to stay home to raise children and take care of the home.
… Or has it?
As women have gradually taken on greater responsibility for bringing income into the household and have been expected to maintain and grow a career, how much of both the physical and mental load of home life has been lifted from their shoulders to allow them to do so?
From research I’ve carried out alongside Laura Radcliffe and Leighann Spencer of the University of Liverpool Management School, it turns out: not very much.
Women and mothers remain responsible for the bulk of responsibilities at home.
More concerningly, the lack of balance at home has wider implications beyond being generally unfair (and a little sexist).
Not only are women working harder, they’re also seeing their careers slow down or become stunted as a result.
Our study explores the interdependent relationship between home and professional lives, focusing on how the ways in which couples make decisions about family dynamics are instrumental in perpetuating existing gendered stereotypes, holding female progression back.
We explored the day-to-day experiences of 30 heterosexual dual-earner couples in the UK, conducting interviews with each and reviewing diary entries they made over a month-long period.
Through this, we identified a troubling pattern in how couples made day-to-day decisions and the resulting impact on working mothers.
Our study found that typical household duties such as the school run, arranging medical appointments for children, keeping on top of housework and meal-planning were still, in the vast majority, given over to mothers, and sometimes even grandmothers, rather than fathers.
Worryingly, we saw such situations occur even in instances where fathers had greater autonomy or flexibility in their working commitments than their partners did.
As a result, women experienced a higher overall workload and a greater level of conflict in balancing work and family responsibilities than men did.
Why does this happen?
We found the answer lay in the habitual style of decision-making, which held three biases at its heart.
The first of these is an incorrect perception by both parents that their home responsibilities were shared equally, even when the evidence of their reality proved otherwise.
This is known as reality blindness.
This can occur unconsciously through habit and routine, and because many household tasks are typically taken on by mothers without being asked, fathers are left blissfully unaware of the admin of ensuring there’s a clean uniform each day, that bags are packed, that shopping lists are made so that cupboards don’t run bare, and so on.
The second is known as option blindness.
Here, the habits of doing things the same old way mean that couples can fail to seek alternative options for managing situations like resolving work–family conflicts.
As a result, fathers fail to step in and step up to responsibilities, and mothers continue to suffer under gendered parenting norms.
The last, and perhaps most troubling, is what we identified as gendered competency traps.
This refers to the belief among couples that a mother, or women, are simply better at handling certain tasks around the home than fathers are.
As a result, men step back by default, and women continue to take on more than their fair share.
An example of this habitual decision-making could be seen in an instance we recorded where a child fell ill.
It was decided that the mother would take time off work to care for the child, despite the fact that the father had more annual leave available, greater flexibility in his work, and even disregarded the possibility of other family members, such as grandparents, lending a helping hand.
These instances, aside from the mental stress of looking after a poorly child on top of other household responsibilities, took the mother away from her work, impacting her colleagues and possibly the perception held of her reliability in the workplace.
This latter point is crucial when it comes to levelling the playing field between men and women in the workplace.
It’s been well noted by research that gender equality cannot be achieved in the workplace until it’s achieved at home, as these circumstances harm women’s professional participation and, as a result, their career advancement.
To further drive this home, we explored the circumstances of families that took a far more equal approach to household responsibilities.
The contrast was stark.
By having a mutual awareness and appreciation of one another’s professional commitments, and by taking conscious steps to ensure clear communications over childcare arrangements and establishing agreements such as turn-taking when it came to compromising professional commitments in favour of family needs, not only did women hold equal status in all senses at home, but their circumstances professionally also improved.
It can be hard to change the habits of a lifetime – especially when at first it’s not apparent that things need to change, which is why our research paper is so important.
Not only does it push to change the narrative for women at home and provide positive results for professional life too, it also helps to highlight the issue of such unconscious bias and encourages readers to consider their own family dynamics.
While the daily decision-making required to encourage equal arrangements may take more effort, taking the time to do so is key to improving gender equality and providing a real freedom of choice regarding career and family engagement, for both men and women.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/impact/leadership/changing-human-resource-management-and-managers:
There’s no question that digitalisation and the advancement of new technologies have drastically changed the way in which we work and how work and people are managed.
More specifically, the increased use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and algorithmic and analytical management has changed Human Resource Management (HRM) in many ways.
It’s well known and understood in the literature that today, new technologies like HR analytics and AI are used in all areas of HRM, including workforce planning and recruitment and selection, HR development (i.e.
training and development), rewards (i.e.
compensation and benefits), talent management, and performance management (i.e.
performance monitoring).
Consequently, humans have become increasingly managed by ‘machines’ and not (directly) by human managers.
In this sense, the line manager responsible for evaluating employee performance and making decisions about promotions or dismissals has been replaced by a ‘machine’, specifically an algorithm.
Of course, this change in the relationship between human employees and human/non-human managers leads to concerns among the workforce, which also explains resistance to the use and implementation of new technologies in firms.
We’ve analysed the role of different factors which hinder and facilitate the effective use and implementation of ‘machined HRM’ in companies.
What’s less known and often underestimated is that the use of new technologies and AI (i.e.
‘machined HRM’) has also changed dramatically the jobs of management, in particular HR Managers.
The fact that employees are increasingly managed via the use of ‘machines’ makes many HR Managers obsolete.
In our recent research, we’re analysing how the structure of HR and HR roles are changing, which jobs are lost, and which are evolving.
While top management is deploying AI for better-informed strategic decision-making, middle-managers, responsible for implementing AI in the workplace, are becoming increasingly obsolete by the very same technology.
Middle and lower HR managers who are responsible for HR non-strategic tasks such as performance monitoring and recruitment and selection are increasingly replaced by ‘machines’.
Middle HR managers are therefore often very concerned about using AI and algorithmic management.
For that reason, resistance, and ‘rage’ against ‘machined’ HRM can be expected by HR managers themselves and not necessarily the workforce.
As we’ve shown, top strategic HR management positions benefit from the information generated by AI and algorithmic management, while those responsible for implementing AI and who are managed by it do less so.
Furthermore, it’s also often the top HR management that makes decisions on how AI and algorithmic management is used and what is ‘behind’ or in the ‘machines’, i.e.
on how algorithms work and who benefits (or doesn’t).
Such decisions about the design and use of AI and HR analytics are of strategic importance, and therefore decision-making is held at the highest level.
Against that background, we show that resistance on the use and implementation of new technologies in HRM isn’t often high among employees, employee representatives, or trade unions as literature sometimes argued.
Still, resistance and rage can be particularly high from the middle and low HR management itself – especially HR managers at middle and lower levels who feel threatened by using AI and analytical methods in HRM.
We also argue that such change in HRM and in particular among HR managers is not new and that HRM has witnessed many changes in previous decades, not least because HRM has had to adapt to changes in technologies before.
As often when new technologies replace old technology in a process of creative destruction, there can be strong resistance and rage among management and the workforce.
However, as history also shows, such periods of change can be managed and overcome in different ways to facilitate transitions.
Therefore, we conclude that HRM, especially at the top level, must collaborate transparently with everyone involved.
This includes providing upskilling and training for middle and lower-level HR management to ensure technological changes benefit the workforce and prevent rage and unrest.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/impact/entrepreneurship/mind-your-business-tackling-the-mental-health-crisis-in-entrepreneurship-:
Professor Pablo Munoz, Professor in Entrepreneurship, and PhD candidate Marieshka Barton explore the complex relationship between entrepreneurship and mental health.
The relationship between entrepreneurship and mental health is paradoxical.
It offers extreme rewards and stress, producing conditions for both wellbeing and ill-being.
For example, entrepreneurship has the potential to create intrinsic rewards essential for wellbeing, such as achieving autonomy, a sense of meaningfulness, feelings of success, and personal development.
Yet, what gets entrepreneurs to engage in entrepreneurial activity can constitute the very same source of ill-being.
High workload, risk, and isolation inevitably lead to high levels of stress and eventually chronic ill-being such as depression.
The evidence is out there.
Entrepreneurs in general exhibit higher rates of depression, anxiety, mental disorders and suicide.
A 2018 study on the prevalence and co-occurrence of psychiatric conditions among entrepreneurs showed that they experience more depression (30%), ADHD (29%), substance use (12%), and bipolar disorder (11%) than comparative participants.
Entrepreneurs believe that the associated depression is caused by the increasingly complex and competitive world they operate in.
Entrepreneurship support organisations (incubators, accelerators funding agencies, etc.) have tried to address these mental health problems, yet the support offered might not be as positive as it seems, because it clashes with the very same services provided by these organisations.
Take business incubation for example, as a central support mechanism in any entrepreneurial ecosystem.
The main mission of incubators is to support venture development.
To do so, they offer training and mentoring, which promotes a very specific set of skills and mindset that’s assumed to propel new venture development.
Entrepreneurs are encouraged to persist, take risks, and be optimistic about the future.
While important to foster entrepreneurial intentions and actions, research has found that these programmes often trigger negative emotional responses as protection in anticipation to potential failure.
The design of support programmes should include activities to mitigate mental health issues and decrease anticipated negative emotions from new venture creation.
Recently, some programmes have begun to integrate counselling services and mindfulness training in response to these problems.
Yet, these are offered on the side, not as an integral part of the business development process.
This is complicated because support programmes, like those offered by incubators and accelerators, can end up playing a dual role, creating the problem and selling the cure.
This isn’t just a problem of incubators and accelerators.
The entire support ecosystem surrounding entrepreneurs seems to be ill-equipped to address the problem.
In February 2022, we decided to tackle this issue head-on.
For 18 months, we worked collaboratively with six entrepreneurs and two County Durham-based organisations (MINT Business Club and Celebrate Difference ADHD) offering business, social, and emotional support to entrepreneurs, self-employed, and small business owners.
We wanted to co-develop a refined understanding of the mental health experiences of entrepreneurs and co-create an intervention to mitigate potential negative effects.
In our research, we found mismatches between expectations and experiences at three interacting levels – purpose, autonomy, and achievement – which surface as entrepreneurs reflect on execution, performance, and fulfilment experiences.
Mismatches materialise as incongruence between the ideal states under pursuit and the entrepreneurs’ actual experiences, which compound, leading to a diminished sense of control, direction, and worthiness.
These in turn fuel a cycle of negative emotions involving anxiety, isolation, shame, and guilt.
In this sense, our findings suggest that it’s not the stressful experiences or heavy workload themselves that trigger negative emotions.
Rather, it’s the compounding of incongruences between expectations of ideal states and actual experiences at the level of purpose, autonomy, and achievement.
What’s problematic about this process is that it affects the entrepreneurs’ self-worth.
This is different from self-confidence and self-esteem, which focus on confidence stemming from competence in a targeted area and externally determined cumulative self-perception.
Self-worth is an individual’s evaluation of themself as a valuable, capable human being deserving of respect and consideration, which develops over time, forming stable conceptualisations of self, with implications for psychological functioning.
The deterioration of self-worth is particularly problematic in entrepreneurship.
It affects how entrepreneurs value and describe themselves.
Entrepreneurs with diminished self-worth can engage in rumination displayed by criticising themselves and their abilities.
They rarely welcome compliments and tend to focus on mistakes, leading to negative judgments and overly critical evaluations of their entrepreneurial performance, and their value as both entrepreneurs and human beings.
A diminished self-worth may lead them to avoid challenges, achieve less, and withdraw from social contact.
Ultimately, frequent and intense self-flagellation leads to chronic ill-being, which is more enduring and challenging to treat.
Equipped with this knowledge, we decided to turn the process on its head and develop an intervention we call MIND Your Business.
MIND Your Business is a 6-week support programme that aims to support struggling entrepreneurs and small business owners.
The programme equips participants with the necessary tools to counter the cycle of negative emotions and foster a compounding of positive congruence to improve self-worth.
Early evidence suggests that the impacts are largely positive.
Entrepreneurs feel that they now have “a space and time to think about how to make positive changes to help both my mental health but also my business.” The training is changing the way entrepreneurs think about work, employment and business.
“It's so person-centred, and that's the thing with business owners, if the whole thing is set up centred on the person, their strengths and values, then it's also set up for success.”

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/impact/society/i-want-to-believe-the-psychology-of-climate-change-conspiracy-theories:
Dr Aarron Atkinson-Toal, Assistant Professor in Marketing and International Business, on how shareable content leads to the real threat of fake news.
Climate change is a hoax.
Global warming is fake news.
The Earth is flat.
Area 51 experiments on extra-terrestrials.
The Illuminati seeks to establish a New World Order.
The US election was stolen.
The coronavirus vaccine contains a tracking microchip.
There’s something fantastically titillating about a conspiracy theory.
Their magnetic pull from the mundane and ordinary to an alternate world of shadowy organisations, secretive governmental agendas and mysterious officials attempting to hide, conceal or manipulate information can be almost too difficult to resist, even by the most rational and level-headed among us.
Perhaps even your mind has convinced you that your phone is listening to you right now, or that stories of a warming earth are overexaggerated and fake news, dreamt up by greedy corporations and governments to increase profits and control the population.
You don’t need to truly believe these stories.
You just need to hear them, consume them, crave more of them and most importantly, share and tell others about them.
The more scandalous, salacious, unbelievable or incomprehensible the better.
We long for escapism and to be heard in a noisy, overcrowded metaverse, where we battle the competition to ensure our beliefs thrive and survive, whilst convincing others to do the same.
We neverendingly consume, create and share stories, ideas and opinions in the hope they are listened to, retold, reshared and retweeted.
The unbelievable fact is, more unbelievable than Bigfoot or the Loch Ness Monster, we’re more likely to trust influencers than politicians or information on social media than information from news outlets, and that has consequences on the perpetuation of misinformation throughout a society as belief becomes prioritised over fact.
So where does this craving for the sensational come from, and why do we believe it?
Well, there’s a reason why we endlessly scroll through random videos on TikTok until the early hours, become mesmerised by ten-second Instagram stories or repost captivating or controversial content on X.
These stories, or memes, behave in the same replicating way in a quest for survival as our own human genes, so we’re instinctively programmed to believe and share.
Confused?
Well in the words of ‘Mother’: “Are you sitting comfortably?
Then I’ll begin.”
Charles Darwin’s theory of natural selection gave way to the gene-centred view of evolution, hypothesising how fitter genetic replicators survive during competition, resulting in evolved physiological features and psychological traits perfectly suited to navigating our once hostile environment.
Gregor Mendel demonstrated how such winning genetic traits can also be passed from one generation to the next via inheritance.
Richard Dawkins further hypothesised that while genes use hosts like me and you to replicate themselves, we’re just the temporary puppets, throwaway survival machines, and it’s our genes that’ll continue to replicate and transmit themselves for generations.
Dawkins argues that these mechanics of Darwinism are just too considerable to only explain biological evolution,  and that there must be other replicators on Earth, just like genes, that transmit information in the same way.
And there is: ideas.
Just as we are the hosts for genes, we are also the hosts for stories, ideas and beliefs.
Just as genes replicate themselves to survive and spread and transmit themselves to the next generation, stories survive as we act to replicate and transmit ideas onto others.
In the same way that biology transmits information via genes from one organism to another, culture allows for the transmission of stories, ideas and memes, from one organism to another.
Survival of the fittest story is achieved when it’s absorbed, replicated and transferred to the next person through cultural evolution.
They don’t need to be true; gossip, rumours and conspiracies transmit well too.
They survive because they deliver messages that people want to hear.
They’re psychologically appealing in their incredulousness, which makes them more infectious and more likely to transmit, not only from person to person, but from culture to culture and generation to generation.
Technology usage within current society presents the perfect Petri dish for meme transmission: social connectivity.
Accelerated use of social media creates the conditions for memes to spread.
And remember, the fact that a meme can either be fact or fiction is irrelevant.
It just must be shared to survive and evolve, and we’re instinctively programmed to do so.
Peddling such misinformation through imitation has been shown to cause societal harm, evidenced recently by anti-vaxxers spreading scientifically false information that threatened to disrupt the Covid-19 immunisation programme.
Sharing memes containing misinformation about the state of the climate or the factors causing global warming threatens to disrupt efforts to fix it, as a herd immunity is created that automatically assigns climate warnings as fake news.
The difficulty lies in persuading a population to change its belief when the source of the persuasion itself comes from a government or corporation, the very entities who conspiracy theorists themselves are hardwired to disbelieve and doubt.
Once you’ve been infected with the meme, absorbed it, and transmitted it to someone else, any social marketing message or scientific warning to encourage behavioural or believe change is futile in the face of a meme pandemic that attacks the rational mind.
The truth is that climate change is a hoax if you believe it is.
You’ve been exposed to the meme and now contribute to its survival.
There may come a time when humans are faced with the incontrovertible truth that cannot be masked by belief.
However, the power of the evolved mind demonstrates the uncanny ability to believe the invisible, rather than the observable reality.
Belief in a monster living in a Scottish Highlands loch is easy, despite never seeing it.
Belief in a dying world caused by overconsumption is hard, despite constantly seeing evidence of the effect.
Just as the power of genetic transmission demonstrates survivability in adapting to environmental hostility, the power of memetic transmission demonstrates how the unbelievable becomes believable.
Or, after reading this, you may believe that I’m just another cog in a meme machine peddling the climate conspiracy.
Perhaps I have a wealthy unknown benefactor who’s forced me to write this article.
Or perhaps the idea came to me after my recent Covid vaccination booster.
All I can say is...REDACTED.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/2025/08/childhood-trauma-linked-to-lower-stock-market-investment-in-adulthood:
The study, conducted by Professor Louis Nguyen, alongside Professors Yibing Wang and Tarik Driouchi (King’s Business School), found that early-life trauma can have lasting effects on financial decision making, but only in certain cultural contexts.
The researchers analysed household survey data from the US, China, South Korea, England, 21 European countries and Israel.
They found that in individualist societies, such as the United States and the UK, the loss of a parent in childhood was strongly linked to lower participation in the stock market.
However, this pattern was far less evident in collectivist cultures, such as China and South Korea, where strong familial and community ties often provide emotional and financial support during times of personal crisis.
According to the study, two key mechanisms explain the cultural divide.
First, individuals in collectivist societies are more likely to benefit from a ‘cushion’ of financial support from family and social networks after traumatic events.
This can reduce the fear of financial risk-taking in adulthood.
Second, those in more individualistic cultures may be more inclined to internalise early trauma, leading to long-term caution and avoidance of perceived financial risks such as stock market investing.
“Stock market participation is more than just a personal finance choice, it shapes household welfare, capital allocation, and long-term economic growth,” the researchers said.
“Our findings show that culture fundamentally influences how personal experiences like bereavement translate into financial behaviour and economic engagement.”
The study highlights the wider implications of this pattern, noting that lower stock ownership can affect everything from household wealth to company financing and broader economic performance.
The researchers suggest that targeted policies, such as survivor benefits, child welfare programmes, and trauma-informed interventions, could help mitigate the long-term financial impact of childhood bereavement.
In doing so, they argue, governments could foster greater financial inclusion, especially in societies where individuals are expected to manage financial risk largely on their own.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/2025/07/language-of-rd-disclosures-offers-clues-to-future-company-earnings:
Investors looking to predict future company performance should pay closer attention to the language used in R&D disclosures rather than just the financial figures.
The study, involving Professor Richard Slack, from the Department of Accounting, was conducted in collaboration with Dr Francesco Mazzi (University of Florence), Professor Ioannis Tsalavoutas (University of Glasgow) and Dr Fanis Tsoligkas (University of Bath), found that the narratives and wording within annual reports can be a valuable resource for forecasting future earnings.
Whilst company investment in R&D is a necessary expenditure to facilitate growth and remain competitive, “the related future payoffs of such expenditure are well-recognised as being inherently uncertain,” says Professor Richard Slack.
“Previous explorations have shown that greater R&D expenditure is actually associated with greater volatility in future earnings,” Professor Slack continues.
However, their research suggests that investors should pay attention to more than just the numbers.
The study revealed that the language and narratives used by managers in annual reports can provide investors with a wealth of relevant information that can help to better predict the future.
To conduct their study, the researchers built a dictionary of 119 R&D related words and phrases to identify in company annual reports via content analysis.
Then, using a sample of nearly 6,500 firm-year observations reporting under IFRS from 15 countries over a 10-year period, the researchers tracked the number of times these phrases were referenced.
From this, the researchers noted that the information about R&D included in the management discussion section of an annual report is the most informative resource for potential investors to pay attention to.
R&D disclosures in the financial statements are of lower levels, reflecting the lack of mandatory disclosure prescribed in accounting standards.
The management discussion section of the annual report, whilst voluntary, in comparison is a richer source of information.
By looking at the language and perspectives of managers rather than focusing on the figures, the study finds that investors can better assess what the potential earnings of a company is likely to be, enabling them to make smarter, more successful investment choices.
“By only observing the data on R&D productivity, outsiders are not able to infer the relevant information to make a well-informed prediction on future success,” adds Professor Slack.
“However, managers possess information that can help investors to better estimate future payoffs.
By examining the R&D disclosures within these discussions, investors stand a better chance of getting a more accurate picture of a company’s future prospects.”

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/2025/07/leaders-who-fail-to-walk-the-talk-suffer-setbacks:
Leaders who say one thing but do another aren’t just letting their teams down, they’re harming their own performance too.
New research from Dr Anders Friis Marstand, Professor Olga Epitropaki and Dr Ziya Ete of our Business School, alongside a number of co-authors, explores the personal impact of “word-action misalignment.” This occurs when leaders’ behaviours fail to live up to their rhetoric and commitments, creating internal conflicts and emotional distress.
The study reveals that such inconsistency often triggers feelings of shame, leading to avoidance behaviours, withdrawal from colleagues and reduced task performance - all of which can damage leadership effectiveness.
The researchers conducted three studies with over 800 managers, using real-world incident recollections and experimental tasks.
They aimed to understand how leaders emotionally and behaviourally respond when their actions do not match their stated intentions, and the impact this has on their work, motivation, and relationships with colleagues.
They found shame to be a common emotional response when leaders reflect on misalignment.
This, the researchers say, leads to withdrawal, avoidance of colleagues, and underperformance, especially for those with a weaker belief in their ability to influence outcomes, often resulting in a damaging cycle of disengagement.
“Our findings show leaders are deeply affected by their own inconsistencies,” says Professor Marstand.
“The shame caused by word-action misalignment can harm how leaders feel and perform, highlighting the need for greater self-awareness and organisational support to help leaders manage these challenges.” Anders Friis Marstand further notes that “this is critical as leaders must engage with their teams, but their shame hinders them from doing so.”
In avoiding such circumstances, the study also stresses the importance of organisational structures that enhance leaders’ autonomy and control, especially in fast-changing environments.
Encouraging leaders to take ownership and make meaningful decisions can reduce the negative effects of misalignment and improve resilience.
Professor Epitropaki adds: “Understanding and addressing the emotional impact of misalignment is crucial.
Leaders who can acknowledge their struggles openly are better positioned to grow and rebuild trust with their teams.”
The researchers recommend organisations should implement practical measures such as development focused on emotional intelligence, resilience training, and job designs that increase leaders’ control over decisions and outcomes, to support sustained performance and wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/2025/07/promoting-diversity-can-alienate-loyal-customers:
Brands risk losing loyal customers when diversity initiatives feel irrelevant or inauthentic to their customer base.
The research, by Miriam McGowan, Assistant Professor of Marketing at Durham University Business School, in collaboration with Louise Hassan (Associate Professor of Marketing at Birmingham Business School) and Edward Shiu (Professor in Marketing at Bangor Business School), explores when and how diversity campaigns unintentionally provoke customer backlash.
Through ten experimental studies, the researchers examined various types of diversity initiatives - differing in duration and target groups - to determine their impact on customer loyalty.
They identified that long-term initiatives aimed at groups with whom existing customers dissociate trigger negative reactions such as brand avoidance.
These reactions stem from customers perceiving the initiatives as threats to their identity and as betrayals by the brand.
Strategies like using sub-brands, allowing product customisation, or clearly communicating genuine social commitments - rather than jumping on the bandwagon - help brands support diversity while keeping loyal customers engaged.
“As brands respond to calls for greater diversity, they must carefully manage customer perceptions to avoid alienating their existing customer base,” says Dr McGowan.
“Not every awareness day fits every brand—but for companies in sectors like beauty, fashion, or lifestyle supporting Pride Month or International Women’s Day, for instance can reflect customer values and show authentic commitment.
It’s not just about showing up, but showing up meaningfully.”
To minimise backlash, the researchers say that brands should tailor diversity strategies to their customer relationship type - whether based on value exchange or emotional connection.
The researchers emphasise that although long-term initiatives have greater potential for meaningful change, they also carry higher risks.
Employing strategic measures such as sub-branding or product customisation can help mitigate these risks, especially when customer preferences are unknown or mixed.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/2025/07/business-school-60th-anniversary-parliamentary-reception:
Our Business School has marked its 60th anniversary with a plea to the UK Government to support innovation in the North of England.
Sixty years of world-leading education, research, and impact was celebrated as our Business School held an anniversary reception at the UK Parliament – an event that also launched our new MBA alumni network, and a new report exploring how research and development can unlock regional growth and close the productivity gap.
Sam Rushworth, Member of Parliament (MP) for Bishop Auckland and co-host of the event, told an audience of parliamentarians, alumni, and staff that the Business School was distinctive for its combination of academic excellence and commitment to achieving ‘real-world impact’.
The School is at the heart of North East England’s future prosperity, he said, and vital to regional growth.
Dr Rushworth said the School was a truly world-class institution – driving growth, shaping leaders, and shaping the economic fabric of North East England and beyond.
He praised the School for bringing global opportunities to local people, including through executive education, and said it was a privilege to be part of marking the ‘incredible milestone’ of the 60 th anniversary.
Lord (James) Timpson, a successful business leader, Minister of State for Prisons, Probation and Reducing Reoffending, and a Durham graduate, also addressed the event.
The Geography graduate joked he wished he had studied Business at Durham, and praised the Business School for bringing ‘such enrichment’ to Durham City, through attracting postgraduate students who remain in the city year-round.
Professor Kieran Fernandes, our Business School Executive Dean and co-host of the event, acknowledged 60 years of world-class education, cutting-edge research, and impact to support growth and effective policy.
He spoke about the Business School’s history, from being launched in support of the then-Government’s Industrial Strategy, and its current work, including excellence in space research and place among the world’s one per cent of elite business schools to enjoy triple accreditation – from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), Association of MBAs (AMBA), and Equis.
Finally, Victoria Russell-Smallwood, a Business School graduate who has held senior positions at BT, Vodafone, and now Amazon Web Services, spoke of how studying for an MBA had been instrumental in helping her drive success in customer innovation, employee engagement, and operational excellence; and equipped her with adaptability and confidence.
The MBA alumni network will offer MBA graduates the opportunity to connect and support one another as they continue their careers.
The event also saw the launch of ‘Innovation in the North’, a new report from the Northern Powerhouse Partnership and our Business School, that maps the North of England’s innovation ecosystem and calls on the UK Government to back a £6 billion-a-year boost to innovation in the region.
Sam Rushworth, MP for Bishop Auckland.
Victoria Russell-Smallwood, Durham alumna.
Professor Kieran Fernandes, Executive Dean of Durham University Business School.
Sam Rushworth MP, Victoria Russell-Smallwood, Professor Kieran Fernandes.
Professor Kieran Fernandes, Sam Rushworth MP, Lord Timpson, Professor Lucian Hudson.
Professor Kieran Fernandes, Sam Rushworth MP, Lord Brady, Professor Lucian Hudson.
Professor Kieran Fernandes with Business School alumni.
Tristan Osborne MP, Professor Kieran Fernandes, Mary Foy MP, Professor Lucian Hudson.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/2025/06/spinout-launches-mental-health-programme-for-entrepreneurs-in-denmark:
Durham University spinout Mind Your Business has partnered with Danish Entrepreneurs to deliver a nationwide mental health and business development programme across Denmark.
Mind Your Business, a Durham-based enterprise, transforms business support by placing entrepreneurs’ mental health and self-worth at the centre of business development.
Informed by research from Durham University Business School, the programme helps founders manage the psychological pressures of entrepreneurship and align their work with personal wellbeing.
The two-year initiative, Healthy Capital, is supported by the Velliv Foundation and will bring Mind Your Business’s award-winning training to over 2,000 entrepreneurs across Denmark.
The project includes a certification scheme for 14 Danish mentors, who will go on to support hundreds of self-employed individuals.
The collaboration will include workshops, bootcamps, digital resources, and in-person training events in both Denmark and the UK.
Professor Pablo Muñoz, Co-Founder of Mind Your Business and Co-Director of the Durham Enterprise Centre said:
“This partnership marks a major step forward in rethinking how we support entrepreneurs.
By acknowledging that business development and mental health are deeply intertwined, Healthy Capital aims to build a new standard for entrepreneurial support that prioritises both personal and business development.”
The Durham spin-out is commitment to destigmatising mental health among the self-employed, while helping them manage purpose, autonomy and achievement under pressure.
Chair of Danish Entrepreneurs, Peter Kofler, said:
“We are excited to bring Mind Your Busines s to Denmark.
Entrepreneurs face tremendous stress and pressure, and this programme brings much-needed, research-based tools to help them thrive - not just commercially, but personally.”
Mind Your Business won the 2023 Best Paper Award for Excellence in Research on Entrepreneurship from the US National Federation of Independent Business.
It has also been shortlisted for the 2025 Allica Bank Great British Entrepreneur Awards in the “ Early Stage Stand Out Award” category for the North East, Yorkshire and The Humber.
Winners will be announced in November.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/2025/06/collaborative-research-to-drive-industrial-decarbonisation:
The 18-month partnership has produced a robust tool that enables chemical manufacturers to assess and compare existing and emerging technologies based on environmental impact, economic viability, and alignment with policy.
The framework integrates lifecycle assessment (LCA), technoeconomic analysis (TEA), and regulatory considerations to help businesses make informed decisions about low-carbon manufacturing routes.
This work addresses a growing need to decarbonise chemical production, a critical step in developing more sustainable products for everyday use.
The research underscores the importance of integrating low-cost green electricity and green hydrogen into future manufacturing systems.
Professor Nalan Gulpinar from the Business School, who led the research team, said:
“This framework empowers stakeholders to evaluate low-carbon options and make strategic decisions about which technologies to scale.
The collaboration also supports the development of sustainable products for the global market.”
The project was delivered through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP), co-funded by UKRI through Innovate UK and P&G.
It reflects the potential of academia and industry working together to solve complex global challenges.
Initial findings are now published in ACS Sustainable Resource Management , with further publications planned.
The research is already influencing innovation across the chemical manufacturing sector.
Professor Elizabeth Gibson from Newcastle University added:
“Making sustainable chemicals profitable will be key to growing manufacturing while achieving industrial decarbonisation.
This work shows how that ambition can be realised.
Ian Blakemore, Knowledge Transfer Adviser at Innovate UK Business Connect, praised the team’s impact:
“Improving supply chain knowledge is vital in today’s world.
This project delivered meaningful insight in a short timeframe, proving how effective KTPs can be in supporting sustainable change.”
This partnership demonstrates how academic expertise, when combined with industry insight, can accelerate progress toward net zero and shape the future of sustainable manufacturing.
Photograph left to right: Dr.
Phil Souter OBE (P&G); Dr.
Ariane Sbrice ( Durham University); Dr.
Linsey Fuller (P&G); Prof.
Nalan Gulpinar – on screen (Durham University); Prof.
Elizabeth Gibson (Newcastle University); Ian Blakemore ( Innovate UK Business Connect ); Dr.
Bernadette Robertson (Durham University).

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/2025/05/strategic-patience-is-the-smartest-response-to-trumps-tariffs:
By refusing to be drawn into a trade war, Europe can protect itself from further damage and demonstrate the futility of unilateral tariffs, writes Josh Fenton, PhD candidate in marketing at Durham University Business School.
In the eyes of Donald Trump, tariffs are tools of strength, part of a zero-sum game designed to reduce trade imbalances and reclaim America’s industrial dominance.
However, the instinct for Europe to retaliate to Trump’s tariffs may be misguided.
During Trump’s first term, the US and China were involved in a trade war in which both countries imposed tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of goods.
This raised consumer prices and disrupted supply chains , but without achieving any meaningful trade reform .
Rather than escalate, European politicians should therefore consider restraint.
This strategy would protect European consumers and leave the United States and the Trump administration to absorb the backlash.
When a country implements tariffs on US goods, it is taxing its own importers and consumers.
Analyses of the last trade war showed that import tariffs were “ borne almost entirely ” by US importers as foreign exporters didn’t significantly cut prices to offset the tariffs.
In other words, American consumers paid more for targeted products, not China.
The same logic applies in reverse.
If Europe or Canada answer Trump’s tariffs with their own, it would be their shoppers facing higher costs, and their manufacturers paying more for crucial imports.
Tariffs feed domestic inflation and often invite political blowback, a reality economists consistently warn about.
Recent modelling of escalatory tariffs suggests that if Canada and Mexico answer US tariffs in kind, it would worsen economic pain for all sides.
The US economy would take a hit, but Canada’s economy would shrink nearly five times more, with Mexico experiencing an even greater loss .
Retaliation could also spike inflation by an estimated 3-4 percentage points in Canada and Mexico, driving up costs.
History shows that no one truly wins a trade war, and smaller economies often lose the most, with retaliatory tariffs mostly inflicting collateral damage at home.
This occurs through higher prices, lost jobs and disarray in supply chains.
Simply put, escalation is costly and effectively hits a country’s own consumers in their wallets.
A better approach for Europe would be to use strategic restraint.
This means refusing to mirror an aggressor’s tariffs and instead responding with measures that safeguard your economy without fuelling the spiral.
This could involve providing targeted relief to industries hurt by US tariffs, for instance by subsidising affected industries or retraining displaced workers.
Rather than fixating on the US market, exporters in Europe, Asia and the Americas could deepen trade ties with each other.
In the previous trade war, China responded not only with counter-tariffs but also by lowering tariffs for other trading partners to reduce reliance on the US.
While the trade war harmed China’s economy, lowering tariffs helped to keep its export machine running while the US began to isolate itself.
In a similar fashion, Europe and others can sign new trade agreements among themselves, from Asia-Pacific partnerships to intra-European initiatives, to ensure growth isn’t held hostage by US protectionism.
Crucially, exercising restraint doesn’t mean doing nothing at all, it means acting smarter.
Rather than fighting fire with fire, countries could invest in innovation and green industries, allowing them to seize ground as the US handicaps itself.
Trump’s tariffs are already putting electric vehicle investment plans in the US at risk .
If countries focus on building resilient supply chains for batteries, semiconductors and renewable energy components at home or with trusted partners, they can insulate themselves from future US trade wars.
There is also a diplomatic upside to restraint: the country that stays calm and constructive in the face of provocation often wins the moral high ground.
Instead of being seen as part of a noisy trade brawl, a non-retaliating country can present itself as a defender of a free trading system.
This stance strengthens their hand in international forums, and it also quietly undercuts Washington’s position.
While Trump may expect confrontation, restraint denies him the narrative and paints the US as the outlier.
In short, strategic patience means choosing long-term economic stability over short-term symbolic punches.
If countries do not retaliate with their own tariffs, then American consumers and businesses will bear the full brunt of Washington’s protectionism.
Shoppers in the US will quickly notice that imported cars, electronics and raw materials are more expensive and there will be no foreign tariffs to blame.
Without foreign retaliation, tariffs appear less patriotic and more like a self-imposed tax.
US importers and manufacturers dependent on inputs like rare earth minerals will face higher costs, likely passing them on in the form of price hikes or layoffs.
It is likely that US business leaders will eventually lobby against the tariffs.
We saw glimpses of this in 2018-19, when American firms applied for thousands of tariff exemptions and farmers demanded aid.
In a scenario where allies exercise restraint, that domestic pressure would only intensify.
Over time, the economic strain on the US could become considerable.
It is estimated that if the world followed the US into protectionism, it would shave about 3% off US GDP permanently.
In the hypothetical one-sided trade war scenario, the US wouldn’t lose all that growth at once, but it would certainly be harming itself while others move on.
In the longer term, America’s go-it-alone tariff strategy would erode its international standing.
Allies and rivals alike may conclude the US is no longer a reliable economic partner, and respond not with tariffs, but with new alliances.
Recent trade pacts like the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership and Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership are already proceeding without US involvement, and this trend may deepen if Washington turns inward.
US exporters would eventually feel that squeeze.
As others lower barriers among themselves, American companies will face relative disadvantages or find that global supply chains reorient away from them.
Furthermore, the goodwill that the US built over decades of championing free trade would evaporate.
Instead, Washington would attract criticism while getting little cooperation on its own trade demands.
The beauty of restraint as a strategy is that it lets the aggressor flounder in isolation.
Americans will ask if higher prices at home and frayed ties abroad are worth it, and the pressure will mount internally for the US to relent.
Effectively, standing aside allows America to “punch itself out” and let the instability brought by protectionism rebound back on the US economy and public, without dragging everyone into a damaging conflict.
Trade wars are loud, but silence can be louder.
Not taking the bait amplifies the futility of unilateral tariffs.
Eventually, the United States will have to confront the self-inflicted harm of its protectionism.
And when it does, those who chose patience over provocation will be vindicated.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/2024/december/seven-ways-to-be-a-successful-remote-working-manager:
Professor of Management Olga Epitropaki and Associate Professor in Leadership and Organisational Behaviour Anders Friis Marstand cover their research on remote working and how managers should respond to “psychological distance.”
Remote work has become the norm for many organisations, but its impact on work outcomes has been mixed.
On the one hand, the increased flexibility and reduced commuting time it offers have been linked to improved employee wellbeing.
On the other, remote work can lead to stress, fatigue, isolation and a heavier workload.
Employees often report feelings of social isolation, as digital communication cannot fully replicate the depth of face-to-face interaction.
And while flexible schedules can be a benefit, they come with the downside of blurred boundaries between work and personal time, resulting in longer workdays and potential digital overload.
Given these challenges, there are several key questions for leaders.
How can they maintain strong connections with their teams when face-to-face interactions are limited?
And what strategies can they use to help employees manage the pressures of remote work, stay focused and deliver high levels of performance?
Our recent research shows that in remote contexts, what matters most is something we have termed the “psychological distance” separating workers from their leader.
By psychological distance, we mean how connected staff feel to their managers.
In addition, we found that leaders can still keep their teams close despite being separated physically.
Understanding and minimising this perceived distance is essential for employee engagement and cohesion when staff are working remotely.
In our research, we focused on three types of behaviour that can help leaders to reduce psychological distance and help their employees cope with the challenges of remote working.
The types of behaviour we examined could be described as task-focused (such as scheduling tasks or clarifying goals and objectives), relationship-focused (such as showing concern or being friendly and kind) and visionary (such as articulating a compelling plan for the future).
Our results were based on two independent samples (one of employees working exclusively remotely in the US and another of employees working in a hybrid mode in Greece).
They showed that both relationship-focused and visionary behaviour helped reduce psychological distance in exclusively remote work contexts.
Leaders who showed concern for their employees’ welfare, as well as empathy and compassion, were able to minimise psychological distance and help their teams overcome the challenges of physical distance.
And leaders who focused on the big picture and communicated a long-term vision and a clear sense of direction helped alleviate uncertainty in remote environments.
In the hybrid context, we found relationship-based behaviour mattered most in reducing psychological distance.
We also found that employees who perceived their managers to be less psychologically distant were able to concentrate more on their work and perform well in their jobs.
They were also less likely to quietly quit and more willing to go the extra mile and help other team members.
As remote working appears to be here to stay for many organisations, our research offers insights on how to support employees as workplaces evolve.
Our findings emphasise the vital role leaders play in helping employees find coping strategies, while maintaining focus and productivity in remote and hybrid settings.
Despite the physical separation, leaders can still reduce psychological distance with the help of technology, enabling employees to manage the challenges of these new work models.
Our research revealed several strategies that managers can turn to.
Show that you care.
Schedule regular, meaningful check-ins and consistent one-on-one and team meetings to discuss progress, challenges and wellbeing.
These interactions should go beyond task updates to include personal and emotional check-ins, helping build trust and maintain strong connections.
Set up virtual “open door” hours.
Establish regular times when employees can drop in for casual conversations or seek advice.
This helps maintain an open line of communication and ensures that employees feel that you are close and accessible.
Offer support.
Acknowledge the personal challenges remote work can create and offer flexibility where possible.
Providing support, such as resources for mental health or work-life balance, can reduce psychological distance.
Lead with empathy and compassion.
Invest time in your virtual team to understand each team member’s strengths, needs and circumstances.
Empathy can significantly reduce psychological distance and strengthen bonds with employees.
Communicate vision and purpose.
Regularly articulate the team’s long-term vision and how each team member contributes to it.
This helps employees connect to a shared purpose, reducing uncertainty and increasing engagement.
Make the most of technology for connection.
Use digital tools not just for work-related tasks but for informal social interactions.
Virtual coffee breaks, team-building activities, or even casual chats can help replicate the social richness of in-person environments and reduce psychological distance.
Build resilience.
Encourage positive work interactions and provide members with tools that can help them develop adaptive work habits such as prioritising tasks, managing their time and energy, and minimising distractions.
By implementing strategies like these, managers can reduce psychological distance, improve the cohesion of their team and ultimately enhance performance in remote work environments.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/news/harnessing-northern-innovation:
The North has always been a region of innovation, from the railways and steelworks that powered the first industrial revolution to today's fourth industrial revolution, where we’re delivering global breakthroughs in health innovation, advanced manufacturing, clean energy, and digital technologies.
Yet while the assets and ambition are clear, the economic returns are too often constrained by underinvestment and structural barriers.
That’s the challenge at the heart of Innovation for Impact, our new report with the Northern Powerhouse Partnership.
It was launched in Parliament to mark the 60th anniversary of Durham University Business School, a fitting occasion to reflect on the role innovation can play in driving long-term, regionally balanced economic growth.
The report sets out the most comprehensive mapping yet of the North’s innovation ecosystem, from research excellence and industrial clusters to technology diffusion and the often-overlooked importance of business adoption.
The findings are compelling.
Despite the North being home to world-class institutions and innovation assets, public R&D funding remains heavily concentrated in London, Oxford and Cambridge.
Places like the North East, Yorkshire and the Humber continue to receive far less innovation investment per head, with limited levers to change this locally.
This imbalance persists even where the potential for high impact is greatest.
Take, for example, the North’s strengths in net zero innovation.
The region is home to nationally significant energy clusters including Drax (pictured below) in North Yorkshire, one of Europe’s largest decarbonisation projects.
We also see cutting-edge work in green hydrogen, offshore wind and carbon capture, industries vital to the UK’s energy security and climate goals.
Yet the scale of support needed to translate this innovation into widespread economic benefit is still lacking.
The same applies across other sectors.
Greater Manchester and West Yorkshire have growing strengths in digital, AI and advanced materials.
The North East leads in electrification and sustainable transport.
Across Cheshire, Merseyside and Tees Valley, we’re seeing a surge in health and life sciences, underpinned by the NHS and a strong university base.
These aren’t just hotspots for research, they are places where innovation can drive inclusive growth, creating skilled jobs and supporting supply chains.
Our modelling looked at what could be achieved if investment in innovation, including support for adoption, infrastructure, skills and translational R&D, were distributed in a way that reflects the North’s industrial strengths and untapped potential.
The answer?
Up to £206 billion in additional economic output over the next decade.
This isn’t a zero-sum game.
At a time when the UK is grappling with sluggish growth and one of the widest regional productivity gaps in the developed world, investing in northern innovation will allow us to tap into the underused potential that this report shows exists here, rather than taking from one place to give to another.
Supporting scale-ups in South Yorkshire or boosting SME adoption in the North East doesn’t come at the expense of progress in the Golden Triangle.
It grows the pie nationally by unlocking capacity, spreading growth, and creating new markets that benefit the whole economy.
To make that happen, we need a bold but pragmatic policy response.
Our report calls for reforms to business rates to unlock lab space for growing firms, and for ambitious long-term regional innovation deals to provide consistency and direction.
We also need to restore funding for local SME adoption and capacity-building, particularly through a revamped Local Growth Fund, and scale up successful initiatives like Made Smarter to reach every part of the North.
This call to action builds on a long tradition.
Durham University Business School was founded in 1965 during the first wave of modern industrial strategy under Harold Wilson’s government.
It was created in partnership with the state, driven by the belief that business education and research could power regional development and national renewal.
That mission remains as relevant today as it was six decades ago.
Now is the time to rekindle that ambition.
If we are serious about closing the productivity gap, we must put innovation at the heart of an economic strategy for the North and ensure that city regions have the tools to turn their potential into progress.
Not just in the lab, but on the ground, where ideas become jobs, prosperity, and long-term impact.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/events/2025/09/the-durham-online-mba-speak-to-the-programme-director:
2 September 2025 - 2 September 2025
6:00PM - 6:45PM
Skyline with the text The Durham MBA (Online) World-class business education and Durham University Business School logo
Drop into this virtual event to meet the Durham MBA Online Programme Director and ask any academic programme-related queries or raise any concerns you may have ahead of joining the September cohort.
We recognise that selecting the right institution for your MBA is a significant decision, and we are committed to providing you with the information you need to make an informed choice.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/events/2025/09/icaew-workshop-data-analytics-and-visualisation-in-accounting:
3 September 2025 - 3 September 2025
9:30AM - 12:30PM
ICAEW North East, in collaboration with Durham University, presents a seminar on data analytics and visualisation in accounting.
This free event brings together academics and professionals to explore how data is transforming the profession, offering interactive sessions on tools like Power BI and Excel, real-world applications, and insights into ethical challenges, enhancing skills for financial reporting, auditing, and career pathways.
In person at: Durham University Business School, Waterside Building, Riverside Place, Durham, DH1 1SL.
Or Online: You will be emailed a link following registration.
Whether you're planning your next career step or just getting started, this free session offers valuable tools to support your journey.
Register at: https://events.icaew.com/pd/31525?referralsource=REGRE
For more information about the MSc Accounting, Analytics and Sustainability programme see here

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/events/2025/09/ilera-european-conference:
9:00AM - 5:00PM
See details below
The International Labour and Employment Relations Association (ILERA) was established in 1967.
Its general purpose is to promote the study of labour and employment relations throughout the world in relevant academic disciplines.
The 14th European Congress will be hosted by Durham University Business School from Wednesday 10th to Friday 12th September 2025.
For more information on the conference, please visit the conference webpage
Download Call for papers
Important Dates:
Submission Guidelines:
Special Sessions Proposals:
Submissions for special sessions are invited for ILERA 2025.
We look forward to your contributions and welcoming you to the 14 th ILERA European Conference 2025 in Durham.
Abstract submission now open.
To submit your abstract please click here
Senior Advisor to the Deputy Director-General at the International Labour Organization (ILO).
Professor of Employment Relations at Sheffield University Management School (SUMS) and director of the school’s Centre for Decent Work (CDW) research centre.
Professor of Sociology of work, employment (industrial) relations and labor markets and Francqui Research professor of Sociology at the Centre for Sociological Research at KU Leuven.
Distinguished Professor of Human Resource Management and Employment Relations at Griffith University
Regular fee: £440
Early bird fee: £390
PhD students fee: £180*
Conference Dinner (optional, extra): £65

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/news-and-events/events/2025/09/qs-discover-masters--mba-fair-in-riyadh:
18 September 2025 - 18 September 2025
5:00PM - 8:30PM
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
Join us at the QS Discover Masters & MBA Fair in Riyadh on Thursday 18 September .
Come along and discover the Masters and MBA programmes we offer at Durham University Business School.
You will have the opportunity to chat to staff face to face and find out more about what it's like studying at a world-class University in a beautiful city with a world heritage centre at its heart.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/departments/accounting:
Over the past few years our research has been published in a range of quality journals.
Subjects include financial reporting and disclosure, auditing quality, corporate governance, corporate ownership structure, public accounting, management accounting, social and environmental accounting, the accountancy profession, accounting history, Islamic accounting and accounting education.
We also look to increase understanding of the social, economic and political interactions arising through the practice of accounting and auditing.
And, through collaboration with leading firms, we are closing the gap that has emerged between academic accounting research and the real world of accountancy practice.
Our active research centres deliver impactful research across the accounting world informing policy and changing business practice.
Our programme gives you the opportunity to combine rigorous academic theory with research to influence the world of business and make a unique contribution to your field of study.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/departments/economics:
Our research is broad ranging and far-reaching and includes economic growth and policy; behavioural economics; quantitative research in financial economics; and environmental and energy economics.
We have a strong culture of collaboration and arrange external and internal research seminar series, conferences and PhD student workshops.
We also work with a wide range of businesses and government institutions including the Bank of England, Federal Reserve Bank, UK Trade & Investment, BIS and the UK parliament.
Our active research centres deliver impactful research across the global business world informing policy and changing business practice.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/departments/finance:
Finance has been a pivotal part of Durham University since the creation of our Business School.
Indeed, in the mid-1960s three of the earliest business schools in the UK were created, London Business School (c.
1964); what is now the Alliance Manchester Business School (c.
1965); and of course Durham University Business School (c.
1965).
At the time, the need for a finance education as part of a business school curriculum was a new concept.
Durham was one of the first places to teach finance as a unique subject — distinct from our sibling disciplines of accounting and economics.
Since that time our subject area of finance has grown into the amazingly diverse area that is inherently reflective of times we live in.
Today we feel the impact of education and research in areas such as Financial Technologies and Financial Engineering; understand a deeper context into the nature of organisations, capital, decision making and investment in Corporate Finance and Banking; value the risks that we face every day as we buy Insurance; and then understand how we finance the infrastructure that will hopefully mitigate the effects of climate change in Green Finance.
No aspect of our daily experience is without reference to finance, it is a part of our lives and it connects us to the wider world: for some, it is a source of great worry, for others an expression of freedom.
However, we feel we cannot ignore it and ensuring equality of access to financial services and fairness in how we experience the financial world are core to our values.
Whilst the creation of the Department of Finance as a separate department took place in 2022, finance has been at the heart of Durham University Business School since its inception.
For many years we have been one of the largest concentrations of research and teaching dedicated to the study of finance in the world.
In 1965, we led the way in research and teaching in business, accounting, finance, economics and management, and 57 years later we are still leaders, still curious and passionate about our subject.
Our finance programmes are among the strongest in the UK.
Taught by a world-class faculty and supported by international-quality research, these intensive one-year, full-time programmes will help you develop the analytical skills needed to stand out and build a successful career in finance.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/business/about/departments/management-and-marketing:
Built on strong and broad foundations in management and marketing knowledge, our teaching and research focuses on the global business world.
We are a diverse and dynamic group of about 85 academics who conduct world leading and impactful research in the areas of leadership and followership, innovation and technology management, organisation and society, and marketing (including international business).
We teach courses at both undergraduate and graduate levels in the main management fields of strategy, organisational behaviour, leadership, HRM, marketing, entrepreneurship, public management, operations, and international business.
We also deliver executive education courses (part-time and online) with modules that span a wide range of management fields.
Our ambition is to build on our leading international position by advancing world changing knowledge and securing global impact through increasingly collaborative research across disciplines with colleagues in the University and beyond.
Our PhD with Integrated Studies is a programme for exceptional postgraduate researchers with a passion and who aspire to become critical and independent thinkers delivering academic work of the highest calibre to shape the future of Management and Marketing scholarship.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/about-us:
Our 10-hectare Botanic Garden is set amongst mature woodlands on the southern outskirts of the city.
As well as being open to the public, it provides an academic resource to the university for teaching and research and offers educational visits to schools.
The Garden is managed by the Estates and Facilities Directorate.
Our museums and galleries are home to more than 100,000 objects from over 60 countries worldwide, and span history:
All of these collections are managed as part of Durham University’s Library and Collections.
Find out more:
Learn more about our team.
You can get in touch by post, phone or email or use our Live Chat.
Imagine holding a meeting or event on a World Heritage Site or among ancient Egyptian artefacts.
We offer unique venues in Durham with a selection of different facilities for meetings of up to 80 people or venue hire for events of up to 200 attendees.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/about-us/how-to-get-in-touch:
Get in touch by post, phone or email or go to Library chat in the sidebar of this page.
Hollingside Lane South Road Durham DH1 3TN
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 5524 Email: botanic.bookings@durham.ac.uk
Contact  by telephone +44 (0)191 334 5524 or +44 (0)7503700019 (Mon-Fri) or email botanic.bookings@durham.ac.uk
If you are interested in exhibiting work of your own, please contact the Retail Office by calling +44 (0)7503700019 emailing shop@durham.ac.uk
We offer an exciting range of education visits at Durham University Botanic Garden.
Please contact the team to arrange your visit by emailing 4schools@durham.ac.uk
University Library and Collections Oriental Museum Elvet Hill Road Durham DH1 3TH
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 5695 Email : 4schools@durham.ac.uk
Palace Green Durham DH1 3RW
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 2932 Email for tour information : castle.tours@durham.ac.uk Email for collection enquiries: castle.collections@durham.ac.uk
Archives and Special Collections Palace Green Library Palace Green Durham DH1 3RN
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 2932 Email: pg.library@durham.ac.uk
Palace Green Library Palace Green Durham DH1 3RN
Palace Green Library Reception Desk: +44 (0)191 334 2932 Email : archaeology.museum@durham.ac.uk
Elvet Hill Durham DH1 3TH
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 5691 Email: oriental.museum@durham.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 5670 Email: artcollection@durham.ac.uk
Palace Green Library Reception Desk: +44 (0)191 334 2932 Email : visitor.centre@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues:
Durham University’s Museums and Attractions promote learning and education for all.
We have something to offer just about everyone!
Take part in adventure trails at the Botanic Garden, go on a tour of Durham Castle or find out about the Durham World Heritage Site in our Visitor Centre.
Our unique cultural attractions include Durham Castle, Botanic Garden, Historic Libraries at Palace Green, Oriental Museum, Museum of Archaeology and our World Heritage Site Visitor Centre.
Whatever your interest, there's something for everyone to enjoy.
Across all our venues we offer a school programme, family activities, events, online resources and much more.
Whatever your group requirements, we have a wide ranging interactive programme suitable for learners of all ages.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/whats-on:
Explore exhibitions created by Durham University students.
Explore our collections from home with our online exhibition programme.
Our Botanic Garden, Oriental Museum and Palace Green Library all have Friends organisations which organise events and lectures including special members-only experiences.
Durham University Library and Collections offer a range of fun, engaging and accessible workshops, resources and experiences for people of all ages.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/whats-on/events-calendar:
04 April 2025 - 02 November 2025
10:00 AM - 5:00 PM
Historic Libraries
An exhibition of the entrants to our international bookbinding competition.
11:00 AM - 4:00 PM
This year, our iconic book takes centre stage at Palace Green Library.
24 May 2025 - 14 September 2025
A vibrant exhibition celebrating the creativity and voices of community groups who regularly collaborate with the Oriental Museum.
13 June 2025 - 09 November 2025
Experience the joy and wonder of storytelling through the Oriental Museum’s new summer exhibition, Telling Tales Making Stories Come to Life.
Contemporary artist Dinah Kelly shines a light on the protective powers and symbolism of charms, talismans and amulets.
14 June 2025 - 02 November 2025
29 August 2025 - 29 August 2025
1:00 PM - 3:00 PM
Learn about the Japanese tea ceremony, get hands on with Japanese objects and decorate your own tea bowl.
30 August 2025 - 30 August 2025
Spot the crystal bird perching in the Silk Roads Gallery and make your own birdy mobile.
03 September 2025 - 03 September 2025
9:30 AM - 11:30 AM
Join us at the Oriental Museum on Wednesday mornings for Little Dragons, our FREE session for children under 5 and their families/carers.
Each session will be packed full of exploring the museum galleries, fun craft activities, singing, games and stories.
06 September 2025 - 06 September 2025
2:00 PM - 3:45 PM
An introduction to making simple book forms with artist Maggie Hickman Smith
10 September 2025 - 10 September 2025
4:30 PM - 5:30 PM
Join us for a free public talk by contemporary artist Samira Mian exploring the origins, evolution, variations and spread of geometric design across cultures and centuries.
Spot the intricately carved wooden face, roots and all, and make your own fantastical face collage.
17 September 2025 - 17 September 2025
20 September 2025 - 20 September 2025
Find out about Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year festival, and make a shofar musical instrument
24 September 2025 - 24 September 2025
25 September 2025 - 25 September 2025
5:30 PM - 6:30 PM
Museum of Archaeology
Join Associate Professor Emily Rohrbach of Durham University as she explores Romantic poet John Keats's creative encounter with his predecessor Shakespeare, focusing on the young poet’s engagement with Shakespeare through his facsimile copy of the 1623 folio.
In that book, Keats inscribed an original poem in the space left by the printer between the end of Hamlet and the beginning of King Lear.
27 September 2025 - 27 September 2025
Spot the first signs of autumn and make some autumn leaf art.
01 October 2025 - 01 October 2025

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/whats-on/online-exhibitions:
Our online exhibition programme offers an opportunity to explore our outstanding collections from your own home.
Delve deeper into the collections, choose to learn about Durham University’s cutting-edge research or enjoy exhibitions created by our students as part of their coursework.
Listen to our podcasts series to accompany our online exhibitions.
Bring your experience to life by watching our videos taking you further into  the incredible collections across our venues.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/get-involved:
Enjoy a range of benefits and support our venues by joining one of our Friends groups.
Our museums, garden and collections rely on support from a wide range of sources.
No matter the size of gift, your generosity can make a huge difference to our work.
We offer a range of volunteering opportunities across our venues.
Work with our Visitor Services team to help our visitors to get the most from their visit.
Supporting the wide range of events and educational activities undertaken by our Collections Outreach team or work with our archivists and curators.
Our Collections Outreach team offer opportunities for post-16 students who are interested in learning more about the heritage sector.
We can offer a range of opportunities for artists and creative practitioners.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/research:
A significant proportion of the objects in our collections are available online in our database Discover .
A range of resources are available via the University Library and Collections website to help researchers of all kinds.
Our curatorial team have a wide range of expertise in areas relating to our collections and we are happy to offer an opinion on your object if we can.
Our 10-hectare Botanic Garden is a working garden which aims to support teaching and research at Durham University.
For this reason, many of the plants have been chosen for their scientific, as well as decorative, interest.
Find out more about how the garden and the scientific community collaborate.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/oriental-museum:
Creativity is the theme this summer at the Oriental Museum.
Find out everything you need to know to get the most from our visit: how to find us, opening times and more.
Plus, everything you need to know if you or anyone in your group has any special needs or requirements.
‘The Orient’ is not an area with defined geographical boundaries.
The term can mean widely differing things to different people.
In the case of the Oriental Museum, the definition is a wide one indeed, with the collections covering a huge area from North Africa to South East Asia.
This is the legacy of the origins of the Oriental Museum in the teaching of oriental languages at Durham University.
Find out more about the history of the museum and our collections.
We welcome anyone who wishes to study our collections.
Find out more about searching our collections online and how to make a research appointment.
The Oriental Museum has a range of activities, workshops and events for schools, home learners, families, visitors and a range of groups.
Oriental Museum curators are currently working in partnership with museums across Asia on a range of collections research and exhibition projects.
Set amongst beautiful mature woodlands, the Botanic Garden offers a wide variety of landscapes to explore and discover.
Oriental Museum Elvet Hill Durham DH1 3TH

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/museum-of-archaeology:
The Museum of Archaeology is the repository for development-led archaeological material excavated in Durham City.
Find out more about the deposit of archaeological resources and how our collections are used to support teaching and research at Durham's Department of Archaeology.
The Museum of Archaeology has a range of activities and workshops for schools and home learners as well as a talks programme and family friendly activities.
Sitting at the heart of Durham's World Heritage Site and occupied continuously since the 11th century.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/art:
Durham University’s Art Collection is on display in buildings around the University campus.
Find out everything you need to know to get the most from our visit.
Get involved in our season of events, with exhibitions, workshops and events.
Open to all, get creative and get involved.
The University is home to one of the richest cultural collections in the North East, including Asian art, modern art, manuscripts and archives.
The collection of modern art alone presents work by some of the most significant artists of the 20th and 21st centuries and specialises in print-based media.
Art Circle is a monthly newsletter for Durham University’s art collection and art programmes, emailed directly to your inbox.
The Learning and Engagement Team offer workshops and resources suitable for schools and home learners.
Explore the range of curriculum linked Art Skills and Art Collection based sessions, and online resources available for primary, secondary and post-16 school and home learners.
We can also support your Arts Award.
University Art Collection c/o Oriental Museum Elvet Hill Durham DH1 3TH

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/durham-castle:
The best way to visit Durham Castle is to book one of our guided tours, where you can learn about life in the Castle from one of our specially trained tour guides.
Find out more about the architecture and the history of Durham Castle.
Due to pre-existing environmental conditions, the condition of the Norman Chapel has deteriorated, and it became apparent in early 2013 that additional monitoring and investigation were needed.
The Learning and Engagement Team offer a range of sessions for schools and home learning groups.
Charting the story of Durham from prehistory to modern times.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/historic-libraries-at-palace-green:
Plus, everything you need to know if you or anyone in your group ha s any special needs or requirements.
Find out more about how our collections were created and found their way to the University.
Palace Green Library is not one, but a collection of buildings.
Explore the story of the evolution of the site and the buildings.
Historic Libraries Archives and Special Collections Palace Green Library Palace Green Durham DH1 3RN

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/world-heritage-site-visitor-centre:
If you need additional help in planning your visit, please contact us at the link below.
Find out more about our guided Castle Tours and purchase your tickets.
Reserve your free timed visit to Historic Cosin's Library; "a stunning space."
Find out more about Durham World Heritage Site and how you can explore it.
From Durham Cathedral and Castle, to our museums and galleries, talks, tours and trails.
Durham World Heritage Site has been a place of learning for over 900 years.
Learn more about research taking place today.
Cosin’s Library was founded in 1669 by Bishop John Cosin to give local people access to ‘good books’.
World Heritage Site Visitor Centre Palace Green Library Palace Green Durham DH1 3RN

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/botanic-garden:
Find out everything you need to know to get the most from your visit: how to find us, opening times and more.
Explore this unique garden and discover something new around each corner across the changing seasons.
The Garden is used for a range of scientific projects and plays a key role in Durham University’s commitment to conservation and biodiversity.
From Ancient Egypt to modern China, the Oriental Museum is devoted entirely to the art and archaeology of the great cultures of Northern Africa and Asia.
The Learning and Engagement Team offer a range of sessions suitable for early years and key stage one as well as self led options for Key Stage 2.
Botanic Garden Hollingside Lane South Road Durham DH1 3TN

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/learn/schools-and-home-education:
Learn more about what we offer for primary and secondary school, sixth-form, college and home learning groups planning an educational visit, outreach or online session.
We offer a Work Experience Programme working with collections professionals and support Widening Participation for Higher Education.
Durham University Library and Collections is proud to be an Arts Award Centre.
The Learning and Engagement Team are looking to develop our CPD (Continued Professional Development) offer.
If you would like to explore a bespoke offer for your institution, please contact us.
This is dependent on our availability so do plan ahead.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/learn/families-and-lifelong-learning:
Find out more below and we look forward to welcoming you to our venues.
Discover the incredible collections in our venues for families of all ages with our wide-ranging family programme suitable for multiple age groups.
People of all ages want to learn and explore, discover our offer for learners of all ages and abilities.
Learn something new, discover incredible stories in our collections and meet like-minded people in our welcoming and friendly spaces.
Support for neurodiversity, physical access and more information can be found here for our programmes and workshops.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/learn/planning-your-visit:
Explore information on visiting our museums, accessibility guidance for your visit, hazard identification sheets, and how to contact us for more details.
Please note: If you require a External Provider or Health and Safety Form filling in ahead of your visit, please send through at a minimum of 10 days before your your visit so we can fill in and return on time.
Durham University Library and Collections policy documents, including the Learning and Engagement Policy, can be accessed through the Library and Collections Policy pages.
The Learning and Engagement Team form part of the Durham University Library and Collections department, the team run and support learning and engagement programmes and activities across the Things To Do venues and attractions.
Data Protection
We collect and process personal data in order to provide access to the buildings and collections in our care, in line with current legislation and professional standards.
Personal information will not be shared outside Durham University.
Read more on our Information Governance pages.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/learn/online-resources:
To support learning, we have a range of collections-centred interactives, videos, podcasts and downloadable content to bring the most out of your session with the Learning and Engagement Team.
Explore these new online resources, centred in our collections!
We are always exploring new ways to bring our collections to you.
Below are the latest new online resources for you to enjoy and learn something new.
Discover our collections differently with our growing number of fantastic online exhibitions for you to enjoy at home or as part of your visit to our amazing venues.
The Learning and Engagement Team work in partnership with the North East Religious Resources Centre.
For more information about how they can support you with your Religious Education in schools follow the this link to their resources webpages.
Discover more about what goes on behind the scenes at our venues and libraries with our blog.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/learn/projects:
Please click below to find out more about some of the exciting projects we are working on.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/research/object-identification:
Our curatorial team have a wide range of expertise in the areas covered by our collections.
We are happy to offer an opinion on your object if we can.
Due to the high volume of enquiries, it may take up to six weeks to receive a reply.
Please do not bring objects into any of our museums or post objects to us.
If you would like us to try to identify an object, please e mail us:
In your email, please share as much information about the object as possible including:
Please note we CANNOT provide:
If you require additional information about an object from our collections that has been published in a book or elsewhere, please email the appropriate address above , providing us with as much detail as you can (such as a link to, or scan of, the publication).
In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, all finders of gold and silver objects, and groups of coins from the same finds, over 300 years old, have a legal obligation to report such items under the Treasure Act 1996.
Finders of potential Treasure in England and Wales should contact their regional Finds Liaison Officer, through the Portable Antiquities Scheme for help in reporting Treasure and for further advice.
The Portable Antiquities Scheme is a voluntary scheme to record archaeological objects found by members of the public.
Every year thousands of objects of archaeological interest are found mostly by metal detector users, although many are also discovered by people engaged in daily activities such as gardening or walking.
In the North East region, the Finds Liaison Officer is employed by Durham County Council.
For more information, please see the Durham County Council website .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/learn/schools-and-home-education/work-experience-and-placements:
Durham University Library and Collections offer work experience for one set week in July of each academic year, open to Year 12 and 13 (or equivalent) students.
We invite applications from post-16 (sixth form and college students) who are interested in History, Archaeology and in learning more about careers in the heritage sector.
Dates for next programme: Monday 14 th – Friday 18 th July 2025
Number of Placements Available: 18
Applications Open: Applications now closed
Applications Close: Applications now closed
Final Decision: Friday 11 th April 2025
During your time with us, you may spend time with staff from a variety of teams such as Archives and Special Collections, Conservation, Museum Curatorial and Learning and Engagement.
Work Experience Example Timetable
We are a multi-site team, so your work experience will be too!
You could be based at Durham Castle, Museum of Archaeology, Durham University Archives and Special Collections (Palace Green Library) and The Oriental Museum
The aim of our work experience is to offer an insight into the careers and opportunities available within the heritage sector, while giving you the chance to contribute to the delivery and development of our services.
Just like a job, we also ask you to complete an online application form to join our programme.
We usually have more applications than we have places, so as well as using the form to help us select who to make offers of places to, we will give prior consideration to applicants who have been identified by Durham University as underrepresented in higher education.
Can you support a placement for another week?
Unfortunately, not.
We are passionate about providing a really fantastic and wide-ranging experience and this involves bringing together many people from different teams throughout the university’s museums and archives teams.
We are only able to do this by focusing on set weeks.
I have interests other than history, Archaeology, and heritage sector careers.
Can I still apply?
If your interests do not match these subjects, you may find a more suitable placement elsewhere.
Do take a look at our example timetable though, as you may decide that the skills you would gain would be useful or interesting.
I am in Year 10 and 11, can I still apply?
This work experience is offered only to Year 12 and 13 or equivalent college aged students.
However, we would encourage you to visit, enjoy and continue to take an interest in museums, heritage and archives and apply when you are in Year 12 or 13.
I am not an underrepresented student in higher education.
Does that mean I won’t get a place?
We do not know how many students will apply each year, so it is impossible to say.
What we can say is that showing us on your application form how interested and motivated you are will be something that could really help you get awarded a place.
When will you let me know if I have a place?
We usually contact successful candidates first.
In 2025, we hope this will be around early April.
We hold off from letting anyone else know as sometimes people have changed their mind and turn down a place.
We always have a reserve list so we can offer all 18 places.
It takes a few days for us to confirm acceptance of places.
Once we have this, we will let everyone know.
We aim for the latest for you to hear in 2025 to be Friday 11 th April.
What will the dates for the work experience programme in 2026 be?
Monday 13 th – Friday 17 th July 2026
“I’d just like to say how friendly the members of the learning and engagement team were, and also the other departments.
I felt as though I always had the confidence to ask questions about anything and everyone I worked with was extremely helpful.”
“It has given me further knowledge on careers I may be interested in pursuing in the future.”
“Overall the work experience was brilliant and I would definitely recommend taking it to any student considering History or English.”

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/about-us/using-our-spaces:
Imagine holding a meeting or event on a World Heritage Site or among Ancient Egyptian artefacts?
The Museum of Archaeology and Learning Centre within Palace Green Library offer central locations in the historic heart of Durham, close to the Cathedral and Castle for events of different sizes.
Within walking distance of Durham University’s main campus, the Oriental Museum with its stunning collections from China to ancient Egypt offers a beautiful and unique setting.
Please contact us to discuss your requirements and we will do our best to make your event or meeting a success.
A range of spaces within Durham Castle can be hired for meetings, banquets, wedding receptions and a range of other special occasions.
The Castle also offers a comfortable range of Bed and Breakfast accommodation within the walls.
All bookings for Durham Castle are managed by Event Durham .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/about-us/our-staff:
Find out more about key members of our curatorial, collections management, learning and engagement staff.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/whats-on/events-calendar/2024/05/eternal-ascent:
24 May 2024 - 15 September 2024
Oriental Museum,
Elvet Hill,
Durham,
DH1 3TH
It is FREE to visit the Oriental Museum and this exhibition
This exhibition marks the centenary of the 1924 Mount Everest Expedition, the first Western, and ultimately tragic, attempt to climb the highest mountain in the world.
'Passing through the "Trough" enroute to camp 3' from the Bentley Beetham Collection
The story is told from the perspective of one man, Bentley Beetham, using pictures selected from his large collection of photographs and glass lantern slides taken during the course of the expedition.
Bentley Beetham was born in Darlington and attended Barnard Castle School, later returning to the school as a biology teacher.
He learned to climb first in the Lake District and then the Alps but had never climbed in Asia before joining the expedition.
With fellow expedition members George Mallory and Andrew Irvine he set out on an adventure of a lifetime.
What he lacked in experience Beetham amply made up for in enthusiasm and his skill as a photographer would prove invaluable.
Artist Stephen Livingstone has worked with members of the Bentley Beetham Trust to select and interpret 200 of Beetham’s images.
These will be used to recreate the journey of the expedition team around the museum’s walls.
Situated at the heart of the Himalayan mountain range Everest straddles the border between Nepal and Tibet.
The mountain is sacred to all the peoples of the region.
Alongside the images will be an audio commentary created by members of the regional Nepali community, adding a Himalayan perspective to these powerful photographs.
The Bentley Beetham Collection is available for study as part of the Archives and Special Collections at Palace Green Library.
Find out more about the collection and view the catalogue .
This exhibition is taking place as part of our DU Science 100 celebrations, marking 100 years of Science at Durham.
To find out more about our events, click here .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/news-events/events/things-to-do/2023/silk-road-exhibition:
1 October 2022 - 21 May 2023
10:00AM - 4:00PM
Oriental Museum, 
Elvet Hill,
Durham
DH1 3TH
It is FREE to visit the Oriental Museum
This exhibition showcases the work of the professional artists and craftswomen who do so much to preserve and transfer traditional knowledge and skills, adapting them for new audiences and popularising Central Asian folk art.
Alongside photographs of the women practicing a variety of traditional craft techniques will be examples of their textile work.
Silk Road Exhibition
A landscape of open plains and the highest mountains on earth, cut with deep valleys whose rivers feed most of Asia.
For thousands of years this landscape witnessed processions of caravans carrying cargoes of spices and silks, along with ideas and innovations, heading along the ancient silk routes joining east and west.
Cities grew up and grew rich from the trade, forts were built to defend and control it, and shrines served the spiritual needs of those undertaking the long, arduous journey.
With the rise of sea trade in the age of sail and then steam the importance of these land routes shrank.
But now there is talk of the ‘New Silk Roads’ sparked by China’s vast ‘Belt and Road Initiative’.
It aims to create transit corridors across what they call the ‘Eurasian land bridge’ connecting China to Europe.
The mountains of Central Asia will once again become a world of trade and transport.
People living along these routes fear that their way of life may be destroyed while others see opportunities to bring local arts and crafts to new audiences.
It is set against this backdrop of uncertainty that the GCRF Resilient Silk Route Heritage Network aimed to foster ways for local communities to develop their cultural heritage, commercially and creatively.
To make cultures move once more across the mountains, to learn from each other and work together.
The GCRF Silk Routes Heritage Network was funded by UK Research and Innovation through the Global Challenges Research Fund and is a collaboration between Durham University, the University of Central Asia and the NGO Laajverd.
This exhibition was made possible with support from the Economic and Social Research Council of the UK.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/whats-on/events-calendar/2025/08/family-activities-tea-time:
Japanese Tea Bowl

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/whats-on/events-calendar/2025/08/family-activities-beautiful-birds:
Crystal bird sitting on a perch.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/whats-on/events-calendar/2025/09/folded-book-workshop:
2:00PM - 3:45PM
£12 per person.
Booking essential.
Handmade folded books in a variety of forms by artist Maggie Hickman Smith
Join us for creative workshop lead by artist Maggie Hickman Smith.
You will be guided through the techniques and processes of measuring, cutting and constructing your own folded book and see several examples of how these simple forms can inspire you to develop and pursue your own more complex ideas, using your individual skills to enhance the scale, look or purpose of the books.
The use of different themes, colours, poetic or inspirational quotes, or a special message can be ways to personalise your work.
Your folded books can be given to friends and family or kept as a treasured reminder of the day.
All materials and tools are provided.
All materials provided.
No experience necessary.
This workshop is suitable for over18s only
£12 per person
Book your ticket via Eventbrite
About the artist
Based in the Northeast, Maggie is an Artist, designer, tutor and author.
She is interested in print, art, small 3D construction, textiles, fashion and costume.
Maggie is a member of Interface Arts.
Parking and Accessibility
Free parking is available at the Oriental Museum.
Additional parking can be found at Elvet Hill which is a large University staff car park available for museum visitors on a weekend.
For directions contact the Oriental Museum on 0191 334 5691.
The Oriental Museum is fully accessible.
For further information please visit our website

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/news/2023/06/throwing-it-out-there-ma-student-exhibiton:
A diverse group of international students, including participants from North America, China and India, have worked together to produce the latest exhibition on display at the Museum of Archaeology.
‘Throwing it Out There: The Archaeology of Ritual, Rivers and Rubbish’ will open on 15 June.
The students have created this exhibition as part of their course, the MA Museum and Artefact Studies, in the Department of Archaeology.
The exhibition includes Bronze Age hoards found in the Durham area, artefacts found in the River Tees at the Roman site at Piercebridge by divers Bob Middlemass and the late Rolfe Mitchinson, and objects recovered at Elvet Bridge by underwater archaeologist Gary Bankhead.
Throughout history and across cultures, water has been seen as having qualities which allow people to connect with other worlds.
The new exhibition tells this story by delving into the rich ritual history of the rivers of County Durham.Durham’s history as a place of ritual is told through Bronze Age hoards, Roman votive deposits and medieval pilgrim badges, while tales of the lives of Durham’s past residents are brought to light through engagement rings, badges and tokens, and the occasional lost child’s toy.
The Elvet Bridge collection includes objects from the medieval period to the twentieth century found by underwater archaeologist Gary Bankhead, who calls the exhibition an opportunity for visitors “to marvel at these small things forgotten, the everyday material culture of the citizens of Durham dating back to the time when Elvet Bridge was built in the late-twelfth century”.
Megan Shannon, an international student from the United States on the exhibition team, said;  “I am not only having fun and making lifelong friends, but learning hands-on skills that I can use professionally in the future”.
Dr Mary Brooks who leads the Museum Communications module, explained “the students on the exhibition team are tasked with creating real and virtual exhibitions using the amazing collections of Durham University’s museums.
This provides them with a real-life opportunity to develop their professional skills, put their ideas into practice and engage with visitors.
It is a key step in enabling them to realise their dreams of working in museums around the world.”
The team are also producing a four-part podcast, ‘Rituals in the Making’, that will be made available on the Museum of Archaeology website
The exhibition will open to the public on Friday 15 June and will run until Sunday 12th November 2023.
Entry to the Museum of Archaeology is free.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/news/2023/05/oriental-museum-hosts-remembering-hiroshima-and-nagasaki-exhibition:
A new exhibition opening soon at our Oriental Museum depicts the horrors of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki nuclear bombing.
‘Remembering Hiroshima and Nagasaki’ has been created by the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum, together with officials in Nagasaki.
It shows how the lives of ordinary Japanese people were irrevocably changed following the bombing.
The Japanese Ambassador, Hajime Hayashi, will visit Durham to personally open the exhibition which runs at the Museum from 7 June to 10 September, 2023.
Through photographs and artefacts, visitors to the exhibition will see the devastation wreaked by the 1945 atomic bombing in one of the most significant episodes of the Second World War.
The bombs introduced a new form of horror into the world and ushered in the nuclear age.
Many of the exhibits in ‘Remembering Hiroshima and Nagasaki’ were donated by the families of the victims, bringing visitors face-to-face with those who died in the atrocity.
They include photographs of life before and after the bombings, along with 20 objects kindly loaned from the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum and the Nagasaki Atomic Bomb Museum.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/news/2023/02/stories-of-the-river-wear-exhibition:
'Stories from the River: Exploring the history of Durham, the finds of underwater archaeologist Gary Bankhead', launches on Monday 20 February at the Museum of Archaeology within Palace Green Library.
The exhibition explores the stories connected through objects discovered in the River Wear, evoking the social history of Durham’s past 800 years.
Co-curated by local underwater archaeologist Gary Bankhead and the Museum of Archaeology, the exhibition will feature around 200 of the 13,500 artefacts that have been found in the River Wear by Gary since 2008, in a friendly-family display.
Exciting finds
Although many objects from the River Wear Assemblage have been on display in the Museum since 2013, this is the first time they have had their own exhibition.
Ranging from objects dating from the Medieval period through to the Modern Age, the artefacts found in the River Wear bring to light the stories of individual people, pilgrimage, daily life, toys, and industry and trade.
Visitors can expect to see everything from Homer Simpson to rare Medieval pilgrim badges featured in the exhibition.
Everyday life
Stories from the River Wear offers visitors a unique perspective on life along the city’s riverbank, showing objects that belonged to the everyday people of Durham.
The exhibition is the history of the cloth makers who washed their wool in the river and of the peddlers who once sold their wares on Elvet Bridge during a busy market day in Medieval Durham.
Originally planned for 2020, the exhibition was re-created to be displayed online by MA Museum and Artefact students during the pandemic.
It has now been re-interpreted to create this new physical exhibition.
Gemma Lewis; Curator of Museum of Archaeology, “This exhibition is particularly  interesting, because in some cases the objects match the historical archive, but in others, they provide evidence of truly personal stories that haven’t been recorded in the historical documents”
Underwater Archaeologist  and co-curator Gary Bankhead is delighted with the level of local interest in his finds and that the collection will be displayed for the public.
He said; “I always get asked which is my favourite find, and although I’m really excited by the late-medieval pilgrim badges and souvenirs – as they are rare finds for the north-east of England – any object that bears the names of our ancestors are equally special as there’s always an opportunity to identify them in Durham’s extensive archives and special collections.
For me the collection means so much, especially as students and researchers will continue to investigate the objects for years to come.”

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/news/2023/02/holi-festival-2023:
Join students and community volunteers when they spring into action to help celebrate the spectacular Indian festival of Holi at the Oriental Museum on Saturday 11 March, 12 noon – 5pm.
Known as the Festival of Colours, Holi traditionally involves throwing brightly coloured powders over friends and relatives representing the victory of good over evil, the end of winter and the arrival of spring.
Colourful fun for the whole family
The Oriental Museum has a full day of activities planned, with a series of timed powder throws to enjoy.
Ticketholders will receive one free bag of environmentally friendly, skin-kind coloured powder and will be able dance to a mix of Bhangra hits and upbeat pop, while getting covered from head to toe in brightly coloured powders.
Additional powder will be available to purchase on the day.
There will also be arts and craft activities, storytelling and visitors will have the opportunity to help produce some traditional Rangoli designs.
There will also be plenty to tempt the taste buds, with delicious Indian food on sale too.
The event is another opportunity for staff, students and local families to come together and share in the cultural and social life of the city.
Get messy
Charlotte Spink, Learning Coordinator based at the Oriental Museum said: “We all look forward to Holi Festival as it really means spring has arrived at last.
This year we have a super team of student and community volunteers helping us delivery the event.”
Rashmi, one of our student volunteers explained why she is involved; “This is my first Holi Festival in Durham and I am really looking forward to telling people what it’s all about.
It’s traditional at Holi to wear white, or light-coloured clothes for maximum colourful effect when the powder is thrown and visitors should be prepared to get messy!”
Tickets cost £3 per person (children under 2 are free) which includes entry to a timed powder throw and entry to the Oriental Museum.
Tickets can be booked online at Eventbrite
Free parking is available for this event at Elvet Hill Car Park.
There is also paid on-street parking near the museum and the Howlands Park and Ride is a 15-minute walk away.
Durham Global Week
This year Holi Festival is also being highlighted as part of Durham Global Week , running 4 - 11 March.
This is a celebration of the multicultural diversity that defines Durham as a leading global university, with staff and students from over 150 countries.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/news/2023/01/year-of-the-rabbit:
We would like to wish all those preparing for and celebrating the arrival of the Year of the Rabbit a very happy and healthy New Year.
A range of exciting celebrations will be taking place across the University and City to mark the special occasion.
Many of our college communities and student groups will be planning their own festivities over the next couple of weeks, as well as larger community events taking place across the city and at the University’s Oriental Museum through Durham Global Alliance, our collaboration with Durham County Council and other key local stakeholders.
Saturday 21 January will see a host of traditional events and activities across Durham City, including Calligraphy, Chinese language and storytelling, craft stalls for children, music and dance performances.
A range of New Year celebrations are also taking place at our Oriental Museum, starting with an opportunity to help decorate the museum for the festivities by making Chinese lanterns and paper cuts on Saturday 21 January as part of the city-wide celebrations.
On 5 February, the museum will host a beautiful lantern festival at a special one-off late-night opening.
Visitors will have the opportunity to try fantastic crafts, see a traditional Korean drumming performance, sample delicious New Year snacks and take part in a lively retelling of the story of the Chinese Zodiac, the Great Race!
Visitors to the Oriental Museum can also enjoy the current exhibition Guardians of the Silk Road's Heritage: Women of the mountains of Central Asia , which showcases the work of the professional artists and craftswomen who do so much to preserve and transfer traditional knowledge and skills, adapting them for new audiences and popularising Central Asian folk art.
As part of the Year of the Rabbit celebrations, the Oriental Museum is inviting visitors to help name the three dragons who call the museum home.
Local teachers and school children have been invited to name the yellow dragon, with nursery children being offered the chance to name the smaller green dragon.
The spectacular red dragon, which will be on display in the museum throughout the New Year celebrations, will be named by museum visitors.
A shortlist of three names has been chosen, and visitors will vote for their favourite.
The shortlisted names are Hongzhao 鸿昭 (meaning a person of great merit and with a bright future ahead), Hongyi 鸿熠 (meaning a person of greatness and sparkle) and Hanhan 晗晗 (meaning a new dawn).
Watch our Durham University student volunteers talk about the three names, discover their meanings and vote for your favourite .
Following on from Year of the Rabbit celebrations, Durham Global Week will take place from 4-11 March with an inspiring mix of events focussing on different aspects of Durham’s global strengths including research and scholarly activity, languages and culture and global citizenship.
Many of the events will include external partners, eminent scholars and experts and other key stakeholders, whilst we’re also inviting staff and students to put forward their ideas for ‘open’ events.
The culmination of the week will be an awards evening to present the Durham Global Awards across nine categories including Global Curriculum, Global Student Experience and Global Volunteering.
We are proud to be a global university with staff and students from over 120 countries.
As a global university we have many exciting international partnerships.
Our partnership with the Chinese Academy of Sciences has already given rise to a successful webinar series entitled Knowledge Across Borders.
The series covers subjects from palaeontology to astronomy, reflecting our joint commitment to stimulating new creative and political thinking.
We are also key partners in Durham Global Alliance, a partnership with Durham County Council, Culture Durham and others, which hopes to build on the many connections that already exist by bringing together organisations with a shared commitment to forging international friendships.
Through DGA, partners will be able to coordinate activities more effectively and ensure the best use of combined resources, as well as being able to measure progress more comprehensively

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/news/2022/11/kamide-om-pottery-:
Master Japanese potter Keigo Kamide is visiting the Oriental Museum on Wednesday 23 November, to give a free talk about his art and the ancient craft of Kutani.
His talk will be illustrated with a selected display of his works for visitors to enjoy.
Keigo Kamide is a sixth-generation ceramicist of Kutani Choemon, a kiln that has been producing Kutani ware for over 130 years.
In this talk he will discuss the traditional motifs and craftsmanship of kutani ware and how this influences his contemporary and experimental designs.
He will also display some examples of his work.
Keigo is a successor of the Kutani Choemon pottery studio (founded in 1879) and has been engaged in full-scale kiln management since the establishment of a joint company, Kamide Shigei.
In the studio, he and his fellow craftspeople are involved in the creation of innovative works including the ‘JAIME HAYON x KUTANI CHOEMON’ collaboration series with a Spanish designer, as well as the application of the Kutani porcelain transfer technique, known as ‘KUTANI SEAL’.
As an individual artist, he creates his own works and holds solo exhibitions.
Japan has a long history of ceramic production and kutani ware, which originates from Ishikawa in the north-western region of Hokuriku, is one of the oldest forms of Japanese porcelain.
Kutani ware is traditionally characterised by vivid dark colours, intricate decoration and the use of the classical five colours style, known as gosai-de, made up of green, blue, yellow, purple and red.
The event is free and no booking is necessary.
This event will run from 6pm till 8pm at the Oriental Museum, Elvet Hill, Durham.
Find out more :

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/news/2022/10/conserving-durham-citys-oldest-standing-building-:
Work has started on conserving and improving the oldest standing building in Durham City – the 11th century Norman Chapel inside Durham Castle.
The project will not only conserve this important building for future generations as part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site but will also improve the visitor experience for the thousands of tourists who visit Durham Castle on guided and self-guided tours each year.
Over the last 200 years, the ground levels outside the Chapel have risen making the Chapel accidentally subterranean and as a result water from the soil is causing damage to the sandstone walls.
The conservation work will ensure that this process is stopped and this important historic building with its many original features is preserved.
The work will also include improvements to the visitor experience with the addition of interpretation and displays in a newly refurbished entrance area of the Chapel.
New lighting will also be installed inside the Chapel to highlight the carvings at the top of the pillars, and to enable visitors to see more of the detail of the chapel.
Around 30,000 visitors from all over the world take part in guided or self-guided tours around the Castle each year where they find out about the history of the building and get to see some of the unique areas of the Castle.
They include the Great Hall, Black Staircase, Tunstall Chapel and Gallery and the Norman Chapel.
Durham Castle is the home of University College, the oldest college of Durham University and is used for reflection and worship, as well as for community engagement and research.
The conservation work will ensure that the many original features within the Chapel are preserved.
These features include sandstone pillars with iron threaded through which gives the appearance of marble, and unique stone carvings at the top of the pillars.
These carvings include men, lions, snakes, and even a mermaid.
The mermaid is thought to be the earliest depiction of a mermaid in England.
The carving depicting a man with two dogs hunting a stag tells an interesting story.
It is thought that this is a representation of St Eustace, who is said to have converted to Christianity when he had a vision of a cross between the horns of a stag he was hunting.
Eustace subsequently faced many misfortunes but clung on to his faith.
He and his family were later killed by the Emperor Hadrian for refusing to make pagan sacrifices and he became the patron saint of anybody facing adversity.
The Norman Chapel has survived practically intact which is unusual for religious spaces such as this, which were often remodelled to reflect changes in fashion.
It is believed that the Chapel probably owes its survival to the fact that there was difficult access to the chapel when Bishop Hatfield enlarged the Castle Keep in the 14 th century, saving this Norman structure from substantial medieval and post-medieval alterations.
The first phase of the project will cost £2.6 million with £80k provided by the Wolfson Foundation towards the cost of restoration and interpretation of the Norman Chapel at Durham Castle.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/news/2022/10/community-fun-day:
We are so excited to be hosting our Community Fun Day once again, and we are inviting you to join us!
Come along to enjoy an exciting range of activities from across the County to celebrate the best of Durham community projects.
The event will be taking place on a marquee on Palace Green from 10am until 3pm on Saturday October 29.
Community Fun Day is organised to be an exciting, hands-on and fun-filled event which will have something of interest to all ages.
We are hosting a wide variety of organisations including the Auckland Project at Bishop Auckland and Hardwick Park.
Count Durham and Darlington Fire and Rescue Service will also be in attendance with one of their fire trucks!
We are also putting on some performances during the day, including a snippet from one of Ooook!
Productions shows, as well as a performance from Durham University Light Opera Group.
Within the marquee, there will be a ‘Creative Village’, from Creative Fuse North East.
A space where professional artists will be displaying their talent and giving visitors the opportunity to learn some of their skills.
These range from watercolour painting to creative writing.
Team Durham groups will also be providing the opportunity to try out some sport.
Test your skills at tennis factory, indoor archery, and or the session from our Junior Hockey Programme.
If all the above isn’t enough, Durham University’s visitor attractions, the Botanic Garden, Oriental Museum and Palace Green Library will also be joining us, and visitors will be invited to visit the Assembly Rooms Theatre as part of a Sherlock Holmes themed Treasure Trail.
Entry to the event is free and a small charge may apply for some activities.
We can’t wait to see you there!
Visit the Community Fun Day webpage
Contact community.funday@durham.ac.uk if you have a specific question about the event
Learn more about our Visitor Attractions
Visit the Assembly Rooms website

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/oriental-museum/visit:
Views on the proper care, use and display of human remains have varied widely over time and across the cultures of the world.
Several of the cultures represented in this museum have used skeletal remains in the creation of important cultural artefacts and visitors should be aware that examples of these are exhibited in the Tibetan and Ancient Egyptian displays.
Our staff treat all human remains with dignity, care and respect.
More information on our policy for Human Remains is available here .
These abbreviations are used throughout the museum for dating.
BCE stands for ‘Before Common Era’ and CE stands for ‘Common Era’.
The numbering of these years is identical to that used in the BC/AD system .
The cultures represented in this museum have used a variety of different dating systems; using BCE/CE allows us to provide a common dating scheme for all the objects on display.
If you need additional help in planning your visit, you can contact us by email or phone.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/oriental-museum/whats-on:
Find out more about forthcoming Friends events and lectures including special member’s only experiences.
Join the Friends to receive free admission to the Museum, advance notice of events and exhibitions, invitations to previews of new exhibitions and a discount on purchases from the museum shop, as well as free entry for all these lectures.
Explore our regular group activity sessions.
Explore the different regions of north Africa and Asia in our galleries, or visit the Silk Roads gallery, which combines works from across our collections.
Find out more about our previous exhibitions and art installations.
Visit our Past Exhibitions page to explore more than 20 unique exhibitions.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/oriental-museum/about-our-collections:
The Oriental Museum is home to a huge range of artworks and archaeological artefacts from the great cultures of northern Africa and Asia.
More than 36,000 objects, ranging in date from prehistory to the present day are housed in the museum’s galleries and stores.
Durham University also holds archives and special collections at Palace Green Library , and additional museum collections at our Museum of Archaeology , Durham Castle , and in our Art Collection .
You can access our online database to find out more about individual objects .
Find out more about researching the collections .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/oriental-museum/search-our-collections:
All the catalogued objects in the Oriental Museum’s collections are available online in our database Discover.
We are constantly updating the database with new objects.
Try searching for a country, object number, historic period, faith or other keyword in the search bar above.
See an overview of our collections.
Find out more about searching our collections online
In accordance with standard professional practice our database entries will reflect the language of the collection and of its original creators; additionally, the individual records may have been written many years ago when the collection was first received by the university.
If you wish to contact us about any language used in our online database or about any particular item in our collections, please make a note of the reference number and email us at oriental.museum@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/museum-of-archaeology/visit:
Visitors should be aware that examples of there are human remains included within our displays.
Read more information on our policy for Human Remains .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/museum-of-archaeology/whats-on:
While our permanent gallery is closed for repairs, we have a small family-friendly exhibition exploring the Prehistoric and Roman past of Durham within the Museum of Archaeology at Palace Green Library.
In this gallery, we explore objects that span 250,000 years of history - from Prehistory to the Romans.
Explore our collections from home with our online exhibition programme, such as Hidden Stories from the River Wear, the collections of Gary Bankhead, underwater archaeologist in an exhibition created by MA Museum and Artefact Studies students from Durham University.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/museum-of-archaeology/about-our-collections:
The main focus of our collections is the archaeology of North East England but the collection also includes national and international material, much of it excavated by members of Durham University’s Department of Archaeology.
Durham University also holds archives and special collections at Palace Green Library , and additional museum collections at our Oriental Museum , Durham Castle , and in our Art Collection .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/museum-of-archaeology/search-our-collections:
Our online database Discover contains significant sections of the Museum of Archaeology’s collections.
We regularly add more objects and images to the database, so come back to see what’s new.
Try searching for an archaeological site, object number, historic period or keyword in the search bar above.
You can find out more about highlights and areas of strength on our collections pages .
Find out more about searching our collections online .
We are happy to provide advice and assistance where possible to those wishing to research our collections.
If you wish to contact us about any language used in our online database or about any particular item in our collections, please make a note of the reference number and email us at archaeology.museum@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/museum-of-archaeology/archaeological-resources:
Find out more about the deposit of archaeological resources and how the collections of the Museum of Archaeology are used to support teaching and research at Durham University’s Department of Archaeology.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/art/visit:
As well as featuring regularly in our university museums programmes and our festival programme, the art collection is on display in buildings around the University campus.
The Outdoor Art Gallery presents a changing programme of exhibitions featuring our collections, contemporary artists and research.
This is located outside the Bill Bryson Library on the Lower Mountjoy Campus, DH1 3LY and is open to everyone free of charge .
Find out What's On at our Events Page .
The displays in the Palatine Centre include artworks that investigate differing notions of printmaking by artists.
The Palatine Centre is also the location of our annual Durham University Student Art Prize exhibition.
Entrance is free of charge , and you do not need to book in advance.
The Palatine Centre is located on Stockton Road, DH1 3LE and has a café and toilet facilities, but no dedicated public car park.
We run a seasonal programme of visual arts based events, workshops, exhibitions and talks throughout the year.
For more information, visit our What's On Events page.
Art tours, talks and research visits of the collection are available on request and where possible.
For further information, contact art.collection@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/art/whats-on:
Join us for a programme of workshops, talks and exhibitions.
Open to everyone!
Showcasing the shortlisted entries to Durham University's fifth annual Student Art Prize.
The artworks displayed have been shortlisted from over 90 entries, based on their conceptualisation of this year's theme of ‘paradise’.
Explore from home with our online art exhibition programme.
If you are a student at Durham University with an interest in visual arts, find out more about opportunities to join our arts and creative network or submit work for the annual Student Art Prize.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/art/about-our-collections:
The collection of modern art alone presents work by some of the most significant artists of the 20 th and 21 st centuries and specialises in print-based media.
The variety of print-based artworks makes the collection an invaluable resource for investigating different printing techniques, from early methods of woodcut printing to more contemporary screen and digital printing techniques.
The idea of the multiple print as a primary artwork is one that is often contested or misinterpreted.
The collection is a unique resource in considering this idea and in investigating the different means of printing and their status.
We are currently working on making the University art collection publicly accessible through our online database Discover and regularly open the collection through talks, tours, exhibitions and events.
We also use the collection as a key primary resource for teaching and research within the University and regional schools.
Above image credit: Guerrilla Girls, ' Do women have to be naked to get into the Met.
Museum' , 2012, Copyright © Guerrilla Girls, Courtesy guerrillagirls.com .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/art/search-our-collections:
We are working to make all of the Art Collection available online in our database Discover.
Try searching for an artist, object number, title or keyword in the search bar above.
You can see highlights and key themes on our collections pages .
If you wish to contact us about any language used in our online database or about any particular item in our collections, please make a note of the reference number and email us at artcollection@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/art/art-circle:
The Art Circle is a newsletter for Durham University’s art collection and art programmes, emailed directly to your inbox.
Fill in the form to date about our events, news, exhibitions and projects, as well as our recommendations for current creative projects.
Browse past editions of The Art Circle to find out more about the art collection and our projects.
Data protection
We collect and process personal data in line with current legislation and professional standards.
Your personal information will not be shared outside Durham University.
For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
If you would like to opt-out at any point in the future, please email artcollection@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/durham-castle/visit:
Durham Castle offers the unique opportunity to stay in part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
It is the perfect base from which to explore Durham.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/durham-castle/whats-on:
The best way to visit Durham Castle is to book one of our guided tours, where you can learn about life in the Castle from one of our specially trained student guides.
Explore our collections from home with our online exhibition programme, such as 1000 years of one of the oldest Normal Castles in England, and artist Bex Harvey’s chronicles of the history of women within Durham Castle.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/durham-castle/history-and-architecture:
The history of Durham Castle spans nearly 1000 years of history.
It is the embodiment of our shared British story, with each twist and turn of our national fortunes etched into the fabric of its mighty walls.
Building began, under the orders of William the Conqueror in 1072, by Waltheof, Earl of Northumbria prior to being handed over to Walcher, Bishop of Durham.
Durham Castle remained in the hands of successive Bishops for almost 750 years.
During that time, the Castle has been the backdrop to rebellions, civil wars, political upheaval, plagues, famines, and religious reforms, and yet the Castle itself has never been taken by force.
As representatives of the King’s authority in the North, Durham’s Prince Bishops were granted various secular powers, such as the right to hold their own courts of law, raise their own armies and to mint their own coinage.
Their privileged position and the wealth derived from their estates allowed them to develop and maintain Durham Castle on a grand scale.
As well as being a military stronghold, and centre of civic authority, the Castle was the ceremonial palace of the Bishops of Durham.
Some of these Bishops embarked upon major projects to extend, alter and remodelled the buildings.
Over the years, some of the most significant additions have included:
The architecture has been influenced by the events of British history and the architectural tastes and fashions of the last 1000 years.
Many fascinating internal features and fittings features can be found inside Durham Castle.
Explore the history of Durham Castle, spanning nearly 1000 years.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/durham-castle/about-our-collections:
Read more about each area of the collection .
Durham University also holds archives and special collections at Palace Green Library and additional museum collections at our Museum of Archaeology , Oriental Museum and in our Art Collection .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/durham-castle/search-our-collections:
We welcome anyone who wishes to study our collections, buildings and archives.
We are happy to provide advice and assistance where possible to those wishing to research our collections and the architecture of Durham Castle.
If you wish to contact us about any language used in our online database or about any particular item in our collections, please make a note of the reference number and email us at castle.collections@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/library/about-us/partners-and-projects/current-projects/norman-chapel-conservation:
The Norman Chapel at Durham Castle is the oldest standing building in Durham City.
Because of its architectural and historical significance, it is one of the most important spaces in Durham City.
This has been recognised by its Grade I L isting , as well as its inclusion in the first inscription of the Durham UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1986.
It a ttracts visitors, academics and pilgrims from across the world, who are able to research, enjoy and reflect in this impressive space .
The University’s Estates and Facilities department have, since 2013, worked with a team of internal and external consultants and experts to research the causes of the damage and develop a project to arrest the decay and consolidate the Chapel’s stonework.
At the same time, University Library and Collections staff have worked with University College, the Development and Alumni Relations office, and the Estates and Facilities team to develop and seek funding for a project to improve access to , interpretation of, and resources for the Chapel.
The aim is to not only preserve this important building , but to enhance the profile and use of the Chapel.
The current project involves external conservation work ; the excavation of a ventilation trench outside the Chapel on the North Terrace of the Castle ; and internal conservation of stonework, including the 11th century sculptures to the capitals of the columns.
Once this essential work has been carried out, our curators will be able to implement improvements to the accessibility , interpretation, lighting and presentation of the Chapel .
Find out more about the history of Durham Castle through our online exhibition .
The altar in the Norman Chapel.
Information hoardings around Durham Castle, at the site of the Norman Chapel Project work on Palace Green
Visitors to Palace Green and the Worls Heritage Site reading about the Norman Chapel Project on the decorative information panels at the site
The exterior of the Norman Chapel before work began on the restoration project.
The lightwells to the Chapel can be seen to the right at ground level.
Norman Chapel Project, excavating the trench
Norman Chapel Project, uncovering the window originally at ground level
The original window of the Norman Chapel now full exposed again, having been half buried for over a century
Stonework uncovered by digging the trench to the exterior of the Norman Chapel
Protective flooring in place for the duration of the restoration work in the Norman Chapel
Carefully surveying the stonework of the pillars in the Norman Chapel
Temporary mortar repairs to the pillars in the Chapel
3D scan of Norman Chapel carvings.
Photograph copyright Otto Lowe, courtesy of Factum Foundation
A 3D scan of a Norman Chapel carving, courtesy of Otto Lowe copyright Factum Arte.
A window that is being repaired at the Norman Chapel as part of the project.
Find out all the latest updates from the project.
Meet the people responsible for bringing this project to life.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/historic-libraries-at-palace-green/whats-on:
This exhibition tells the story of Durham's copy of Shakespeare's First folio, exploring the work of our conservation team to make it accessible again.
Visit to see a rare and important cultural artefact and experience a book as you’ve never seen one before.
This  exhibition is FREE to visit in Cosin's Library on Palace Green
Capacity in the library space is limited and visitors are advised to book Free tickets in advance.
Visit Cosin’s Library, one of the earliest public libraries in the North East of England.
Enjoy the splendour of this 17th century Library in the heart of Durham's World Heritage Site.
Only available via pre-booked tour.
An exhibition of our Archives and Special Collections, telling hidden stories from the shelves and strongrooms.
Showcasing items from Durham University’s Archives and Special Collections, this exhibition explores themes of medical progress, local stories of crime and punishment, and the journey to women’s suffrage.
Find out more about our previous exhibitions.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/historic-libraries-at-palace-green/history-of-the-collections:
Durham University’s historic libraries and archives are made up of over 700 individual collections from huge historic libraries to tiny personal collections of manuscripts, photographs or diaries.
Over almost two centuries since Durham University was founded, our library and archive collections have been growing and evolving with new books, manuscripts and archives being added every year.
The story of how many of these collections were created, and then found their way to the University, is often as interesting as the material contained within them.
Follow the stories of Bishop Cosin, the Sharp family of Bamburgh, Martin Routh, and the Department of Palaeography and Diplomatic, as we discover how these amazing collections were born and survived the centuries.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/historic-libraries-at-palace-green/architecture:
Palace Green Library is not one, but a collection of historic buildings, standing at the heart of the World Heritage Site on Durham’s Peninsula.
The site was the University’s main library for 150 years, from 1833 to 1983, with the last ordinary books leaving for the Bill Bryson Library on South Road in 2011.
Today, Palace Green Library is open to everyone - not just students and researchers - and is home to our Historic Libraries: Bamburgh , Routh and Cosin as well as Durham University’s Archives and Special Collections , and the Museum of Archaeology and World Heritage Visitor Centre .
You can explore the story and evolution of the site and the buildings in the following pages.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/historic-libraries-at-palace-green/using-the-collections:
Bishop John Cosin’s mission to open his library to anyone who was interested in knowledge, learning and discovery, is just as important now as it was 350 years ago.
The University’s historic libraries and archives are open for anyone to consult, whether you are a professor, student, serious researcher or just have a personal interest in learning something new or old.
Our eight miles of books, manuscripts, photographs, objects and archives are available to view in the Barker Research Library .
Anyone wishing to view items from the collections in-person will need to book an appointment at least three working days in advance, and we will need to know the full list of document references or shelfmarks of the items you wish to consult before we can confirm your booking.
If you are unsure of how to do this or need assistance, please contact us and we will be happy to help.
Please use our contact form to book an appointment.
Before your visit, you can search our extensive collections online using our Discover online database and guides to the collections to find something specific or just go on your own journey of discovery.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/world-heritage-site-visitor-centre/whats-on:
The visitor centre will take you through the history of Durham and explore how the city has changed over the years.
Durham World Heritage Site is a partnership between the University, Cathedral, County Council and others.
You can find more events on our partner websites.
Find out more about our Durham World Heritage Site Youth Ambassadors.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/world-heritage-site-visitor-centre/whats-here:
Durham World Heritage site was inscribed by UNESCO in 1986 in recognition of its Outstanding Universal Value, becoming one of the first UK sites to be listed.
The site has remained in constant use for 1000 years as a centre for religion, education and pilgrimage.
Durham Cathedral was built between the late 11 th to early 12 th centuries to house the shrines of the Venerable Bede and St Cuthbert.
Durham Castle was built by the Normans to protect the English borders from Scottish invaders.
Together, Durham Cathedral and Durham Castle form one of the greatest monuments of the Norman Conquest of Britain.
Indeed, Durham Cathedral is one of the finest examples of Norman architecture in the whole of Europe.
The Castle and Cathedral also reflect the fascinating political history of Durham and the unique status of the Prince Bishops of Durham.
These religious leaders also held significant secular power, and governed a virtually autonomous state that formed a buffer between England and Scotland from the late 11 th century until 1603.
More recently, Durham Castle and other buildings on the World Heritage site have become the home of Durham University – the third oldest university in England.
Visit Durham World Heritage Site and learn about the history of Durham, the spread of Christianity in the North East of England and how local partners are working with UNESCO to protect the site for future generations.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/world-heritage-site-visitor-centre/research-on-the-world-heritage-site:
Durham World Heritage site has been a place of learning for over 900 years.
Today it continues to be a centre for world leading research.
The Durham World Heritage Site Research Framework was agreed in 2015 as part of the overall Management Plan for the site.
The Research Framework has two objectives.
First, to place academic research at the core of future management, conservation, interpretation, and investigation of the Durham World Heritage Site.
Secondly, it explores and prioritises key avenues for further work, presenting a strategy through which this research can be taken forward.
Only through rigorous, academically informed research can our understanding and appreciation of the Cathedral, Castle and their environs be progressed.
This robust framework aims to contribute actively to the improved appreciation of the rich archaeological, architectural, and historical record of Durham’s World Heritage Site.
Explore our Durham World Heritage Site Research Framework .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/botanic-garden/visit:
Visit the Botanic Garden and become lost in the natural beauty of our site.
Explore the many different natural areas, with new plant-life and hidden artworks around every corner.
Described as ‘A treasure trove of plants from all regions’ by the judges of the Northumbria In Bloom Awards, the Botanic Garden has consistently wins high accolades and awards over the years.
Guide and assistance dogs are welcome at the Durham University Botanic Garden, and dog bowls can be obtained from the café.
However, no other dogs are allowed in the garden at any times.
While dogs are not permitted in our Garden, there are plenty of great walks in the surrounding area for you and your dog.
Please do not leave your dogs unattended in hot cars.
If you see a dog in distress in a hot car, call 999 immediately.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/botanic-garden/whats-on:
We welcome guests of all ages to come along and get involved in the events at the Botanic Garden.
Please do browse our What’s On pages to find out more about upcoming activities.
Many of these events are inspired by the natural setting of the garden but, with activities ranging from traditional crafts to storytelling, there really is something for everyone!
As well as being a beautiful natural environment in which to wander, explore and learn more about our plants, the Botanic Garden hosts a wide variety of events throughout the year.
Many of these activities are free, with only standard admission prices applying.
Find out more about the range of ways you can explore the Garden with trails and tours designed for adults and families.
The coffee shop in our Visitor Centre hosts exhibitions by a range of artists throughout the year.
Find out more about forthcoming Friends events and lectures, including special member’s only experiences.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/botanic-garden/whats-here:
The Botanic Garden is enjoyed by old and young alike, and there is plenty to see and do around our site.
Explore this unique garden and discover something new around each corner over the changing seasons.
We have plant collections from around the world, including China, Japan, North America, South Africa, New Zealand and Chile, as well as a woodland garden, alpine garden and bamboo grove.
Explore more about the wide selection of plants you’ll see on a visit to Durham University Botanic Garden, and learn more about the history of the Garden and how we label our plants.
We are sure you’ll discover something interesting and learn something new.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/things-to-do/venues/botanic-garden/science-and-conservation:
The Botanic Garden is part of Durham University.
We provide an academic resource to the university for teaching and research.
The Garden is used for a range of scientific projects.
All our plants have detailed, systematic labels to support this work.
Durham University is committed to increasing and enhancing biodiversity across the campus and the Botanic Garden plays a key role in this.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply:
Get more tips and tricks about how to apply to Durham straight to your inbox.
If you want to be challenged and inspired to achieve the extraordinary then we’d love to hear from you.
If you’re applying to us through UCAS , use our handy guide below to help you.
For the best chance of receiving an offer, you’ll need to apply by 18:00 (GMT) on 29 January 2025.
If you’re applying for Oxford, Cambridge, or Medicine, Dentistry or Veterinary Science, then the application deadline is 15 October.
Your school or college may have their own deadline for you to apply so they have enough time to write your reference, so you’ll need to bear this in mind.
If you're planning to apply next year, the deadline you'll need to apply by for the best chance of receiving an offer will be 18:00 (GMT) on 14 January 2026.
Register with UCAS .
If you’re applying through school or college then you’ll need a buzzword, so make sure you know what this is.
If you’re not applying through a school or college then you won’t need a buzzword.
When you register you’ll be given a username, will need to create your own password, and will be given a UCAS personal ID.
Make sure you keep these safe as you will need them a lot.
You can usually start your application from September for entry to university the following year.
The online system lets you complete your application in stages – simply save as you go along and you can return to it later.
The application is made up of different sections, including your personal details, qualifications, course choices, a personal statement and a reference.
UCAS have some great guides to help you complete your application on their website
You can choose up to five courses.
Use the institution code D86 for Durham.
Once you’ve submitted your application to UCAS they will let you know they have received it and will send it to all of your university choices.
Selection processes vary between universities and courses so don’t worry if you don’t hear from your choices straight away.
When the universities you have applied to are ready to make their decisions, you’ll be able to see them on at UCAS .
Throughout your application, you may decide your interests are in another course, or perhaps your circumstances have changed and you'd like to change your year of entry.
Read our guidance about changes to your application to tell you more about the changes which might be possible, plus when and how to request these.
It’s never too early to start thinking about the course you want to study.
Do your online research and take advantage of Open Days, Campus Tours (virtual options available) and talking to current students to find out as much as you can about your subject and the universities you’re interested in.
You only have a maximum of 5 choices on your UCAS application, so it’s important you take advantage of all the resources available to choose the right courses and universities for you.
Give yourself enough time to complete your application before the deadline – don’t leave it until the last minute!
You need to give yourself the best chance of getting an offer, so plan in enough time so you don’t need to rush.
Double check each section before you submit your application.
It’s especially important that factual information is correct, especially the grades you achieved in your qualifications.
If you’re using a school email address then don’t forget to change this to a personal one before you leave.
Most universities send you information by email and don’t want you to miss important messages they might send during the summer months.
5.
Don’t forget, UCAS have lots of helpful hints and tips, including a video guide.
Or you could Ask one of our friendly advisers, who are always happy to help.
Good luck with your application - and we hope to see you at Durham soon!
This information shows the number of places available and the number of applications received in admissions cycle.
Have a question about applying for Durham University?

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fair-access-and-widening-participation:
At Durham we welcome students from all backgrounds.
We focus on encouraging everyone who has the merit and potential to succeed regardless of background, every applicant who has the ability and desire to study with us is given this opportunity.
We are always finding initiative to support students from underrepresented backgrounds, beginning from pre-application up until the time of their studies in the university.
We target prospective students that are currently underrepresented, including students:
*The previous Access and Participation plan with impact report (2019-20) and Access Agreements (from 2006 to 2019) can be found here .
*The Student Fees 2024-25 Summary can be found here .
The Widening Access and Participation Team work with a range of stakeholders, including schools and colleges, parents and carers and other like-minded organisations to ensure that entry to university is based on merit and academic potential, and not social background, ethnicity, gender or other irrelevant factors.
Much of their activity is focused on North East students in local schools and colleges to increase.
Many of their activities include collaborating with current Durham University students so that prospective students can get a real and genuine understanding directly from those who have experience.
Read more about the summer school programmes we offer.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees-and-funding:
Studying for a degree is an investment in your future, with graduates on average earning more over the course of their working life than non-graduates.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/interdisciplinary-courses:
Providing flexibility and choice across Durham’s breadth of world-renowned research-led education, allowing you to create a bespoke, academically ambitious degree programme suited to your individual interests, strengths and career plans.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-module-handbook:
The Undergraduate Module Handbook (formerly the Faculty Handbook ) includes the programme regulations for all undergraduate degrees offered by Durham University.
You can use the regulations to check which modules are compulsory on your programme, and which are optional.
The module and programme information here is for current modules and programmes.
Modules and programmes do change year-on-year, and are amended to take account of, for example: changing staff expertise, disciplinary developments, the requirements of external bodies and partners, and student feedback.
Programme regulations should be read in conjunction with the Core Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes.
To find the regulations for your degree programme, use the Programme Search links below.
Programme Search:
The Undergraduate Module Handbook also contains descriptions (including information on the content, teaching and assessment) for all current undergraduate modules .
To view the individual modules you can use the Module Search facility below.
If you have a question about Durham's modular degree programmes, please visit our FAQ webpages , Help page or our glossary of terms .
If you have a question about modular programmes that is not covered by the FAQ, or a query about the on-line Undergraduate Module Handbook, please contact us.
Prospective Students: If you have a query about a specific module or degree programme, please Ask Us .
Current Students: Please contact your department .
Every effort has been made to ensure that the information contained in the Online Undergraduate Module Handbook is correct at the time of publication in June 2021.
The University will use reasonable endeavours to deliver programmes and other services in accordance with the descriptions provided.
The University, however, reserves the right to make variations to programme contents, entry requirements and methods of delivery, to discontinue or merge or combine programmes, and to make variations to regulations, both before and after a student's admission to the University, if such action is reasonably considered necessary by the University.
Should industrial action, changes in government guidance regarding Covid-19, or other circumstances beyond the control of the University occur, and this interferes with the University's ability to deliver programmes or other services in accordance with the descriptions provided, the University will use all reasonable endeavours to minimise disruption as far as it is practical to do so.
If there is any conflict or disagreement between the information in these web pages and the Regulations which are published in the University Calendar, the version in the Calendar is definitive.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/scholarships:
Find out if you're eligible for financial support.
We offer a range of support to help ensure that the brightest and best students can access a world-class education.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/access-and-participation/support-for-estranged-care-experienced-and-early-independent-students-eace-:
We recognise that that it may be particularly challenging starting and studying at university if you are care-experienced, a care leaver, estranged from your family, or otherwise independent from your parents.
You may experience specific difficulties which other students do not.
Starting in the academic year 2025/26 we are offering young independent undergraduates a range of support to help them navigate these challenges.
We want everyone to be able to make the most of their time at Durham, regardless of background.
From 2025/26 our young independent undergraduates will have access to some or all of the following support:
In addition to being awarded a Durham Grant worth up to £ 2,721 per year, undergraduate students assessed as independent by Student Finance England (or equivalent in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales) who were under 25 years of age at the start of their studies will be awarded an Independent Student Bursary worth £3,000 for the duration of a three-year programme (or £4,000 for the duration of a four-year programme).
It will be paid as follows:
You do not have to apply for your Independent Student Bursary.
It will be awarded automatically.
For more information on the Durham Grant Scheme and the Independent Student Bursary Scheme contact our Bursaries and Student Financial Support team on grants.bursaries@durham.ac.uk .
Undergraduate students assessed as independent by Student Finance England (or equivalent in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales) will receive a 20% reduction on their College accommodation charge worth up to £2,555 per year.
In addition, EaCE+ students will also have guaranteed access to College accommodation f or the duration of their time at Durham .
This will include the option of accommodation for 52 weeks per year if needed.
For those choosing to live in private rented accommodation during their time in Durham, we offer a free rent guarantor scheme for EaCE+ students.
More information on this is available here: Rent Guarantor Scheme - Durham University
Undergraduate care-experienced students, care leavers, estranged students and other young independent students will have access to the University’s dedicated support network for EaCE+ students.
This provides support via multiple teams working collaboratively for each individual student.
It includes pastoral support from our Colleges and dedicated advice and support from specialist trained advisors in the Careers and Enterprise Centre and the Student Money Advice Service.
EaCE+ students are given priority consideration for our access schemes: Supported Progression , Sutton Trust , and STEP .
EaCE+ Students are also counted in our contextual offer criteria .
A contextual offer considers information from your application like your individual background and experiences, and the impact these might have on your qualifications when we make a decision on your application.
If you have any questions on the application and admissions process, you can contact our dedicated point of contact, Boawe Rankin-Carr .
We can provide you with individual advice and guidance on the UCAS process, personal statement writing and admissions support.
EaCE+ students can access an event bursary covering both travel and accommodation, to enable attendance at one of our pre-application open days or post-offer visit days.
We also run specific campus visits for EaCE+ students.
These visits allow students to find out first-hand what Durham can offer, and students are accompanied by a member of the team, who can answer specific questions.
Please contact Boawe Rankin-Carr for more information on campus visits.
A care-experienced student is someone who, at any stage of their life, and for any length of time, has been in care e.g.
looked after by the local authority.
This definition has been agreed in partnership with NERAP as part of the Care Leaver Covenant.
Make sure that you tick the box on your UCAS form that asks if you are care-experienced.
That way, we will know before you arrive and can arrange for you to receive relevant information before you begin your degree.
Undergraduate students who have been assessed as care leavers by Student Finance England (or equivalent in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales).
Subject to certain exceptions, students will be assessed as care leavers if:
Student Finance England information for care leavers
Undergraduate students who have been assessed as estranged by Student Finance England (or equivalent in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales).
Students will be assessed as estranged if:
Undergraduate students who have been assessed as independent by Student Finance England (or equivalent in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales) because they are under the age of 25 and:
Student Finance England information for independent students
If you think that you should be assessed as independent by Student Finance England (or equivalent), but are having trouble with the assessment process, we will support you.
Contact our Student Loans team on ug-pgce.loans@durham.ac.uk .
Durham University has signed both the Care Leaver Covenant (in partnership with NERAP), and the Stand Alone Pledge to support care-experienced and estranged students respectively.
In engaging with these, we have committed to provide a level of support for students from EaCE+ backgrounds.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught-degrees:
Postgraduate taught study will extend your knowledge and skills and allow you to specialise in a subject beyond undergraduate level
Find out more about the application process, what to do as an offer holder, and how to secure funding for your studies.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees:
We are a globally outstanding centre of teaching and research excellence and produce world-leading and world-changing research.
With a mutually supportive and diverse group of exceptional peers and supervisors, you’ll be both a challenger and challenged, pushing the boundaries of current thinking and research.
As a postgraduate research student, you’ll work in collaboration with academics to push forward the boundaries of your subject.
We provide you with a place where at every stage of your career you will find a supportive environment to develop yourself and your ideas.
To help meet global demand for highly qualified people, Durham University has teamed up with private and public sector organisations to establish doctoral training partnerships and centres that provide outstanding training and research opportunities for postgraduate students.
Our academic departments also offer a range of exciting postgraduate research opportunities under the supervision of world-leading experts.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/tuition-fees-and-charges:
Investing in a postgraduate qualification can enhance your career prospects or help you to take your career in a different direction.
To find out more about our Tuition Fees and Charges, contact us using the information below.
Finance Service
Hawthorn Wing

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-module-handbook:
Welcome to the Postgraduate Module Handbook .
The Postgraduate Module Handbook includes the programme frameworks for all of Durham University's postgraduate degree programmes with taught components, so that you can check:
Please note: the module and programme information here is for current modules and programmes.
Programme regulations should be read in conjunction with the Core Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes .
To view the framework for your degree programme, use the Programme Search facility below.
Programme Search
The Postgraduate Module Handbook also contains descriptions of all the postgraduate modules offered by the University, including the content of each module and how it will be taught and assessed.
To access information on individual modules, use the Module Search facility below.
If you are looking for modules outside of your degree programme, you can also use the departmental module filters to access every postgraduate module offered by the University, by department.
Please ensure you check the module availability box for each module outline.
If you have a question about Durham's modular degree programmes, please visit our Help page.
If you have a question about modular programmes that is not covered by the Help page, or a query about the on-line Postgraduate Module Handbook, please contact us.
Every effort has been made to ensure that the information contained in the Postgraduate Module Handbook is correct at the time of publication in August 2020.
Should industrial action or other circumstances beyond the control of the University occur, and this interferes with the University's ability to deliver programmes or other services in accordance with the descriptions provided, the University will use all reasonable endeavours to minimise disruption as far as it is practical to do so.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/studying-in-the-uk:
Durham is a truly world-class university with a long history of welcoming students and academics from all over the globe.
Durham is one of the world's leading Universities as shown by our World Top 100 position in the QS World University Rankings 2024, where we are ranked 78th .
Here are a few more reasons to come to Durham
Students wishing to study at Durham on a year-long exchange, please visit the Incoming Opportunities page

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/entry-requirements:
We accept a wide range of qualifications from the UK and the rest of the world for entry to our undergraduate courses.
Entry requirements per course will differ, and some courses may require previous study in certain subjects.
You can find the entry requirements for your chosen degree on UCAS Course Search or the Durham Courses Database .
We understand that some students may have a combination of qualifications, and if you have any questions about how we assess those qualifications together you can use our Contact Form .
Details included under each country are for future undergraduate and postgraduate taught students.
If you are interested in a postgraduate research course, please visit Postgraduate Study and our Academic Departments.
You may be required to submit an English Language qualification if you are not a native English speaker.
Please review the standard English Language Requirements for your course and country.
International students who do not meet the requirements for direct entry to an undergraduate or postgraduate degree, you may be eligible to take a pathway programme at the Durham University International Study Centre .
Located at our Queen’s Campus, the International Study Centre provides a supportive environment where you will be introduced to the style of teaching you will experience should you progress on to your degree.
Programmes aim to improve your academic knowledge, study and English language skills.
Completing your pathway programme at the International Study Centre and achieving the required grades means that you can progress to your degree at Durham University City Campus.
You can choose from English Preparation , International Foundation Year or Pre-Masters pathway programmes.
If you aren’t studying in a majority English-speaking country, then you will need to demonstrate English language proficiency through an accepted English language test.
All courses require you to achieve certain grades in your qualifications, and some require prior study and knowledge of specific subjects, which we’ll ask you to achieve at a particular grade.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/application-guidance:
The Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) handles applications for all undergraduate courses eg BA, BSc, MEng, MPhys, MSci.
Durham University handles all postgraduate degree applications directly.
As an international undergraduate applicant, as well as submitting your application through UCAS you will also need to send scanned copies of your qualifications (including your score in any English language test you have undertaken) to our Recruitment and Admissions Office.
Please make sure that you include your UCAS personal identification number (PID), your name, and your date of birth in your email.
Durham University has dedicated support services to assist our international applicants from application right through to graduation to ensure that you gain the most from your studies and your time in the UK.
The International Office offers advice and support for anyone thinking of applying to Durham University from outside of the UK and staff travel regularly to attend international education fairs and meet prospective students.
You can contact the International Office and our support services at any time with any questions you may have:
General Enquires: Please visit: Ask Us
Regional contacts: Please visit: Regional Pages
International Campus Visit : International Campus Visits
Immigration Enquiries: Please visit: Immigration Durham
Global Opportunities Enquires: Please visit: Global Durham

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/visa-information:
If you're eligible for UK immigration permission in another capacity, you may also be allowed to study without having to apply for a Student visa.
Other types of permission that allow you to study in the UK include (but are not limited to):
Apply to the EU Settlement Scheme (settled and pre-settled status)
If you're a national of the EU, EEA or Switzerland, you don’t need a student visa if you came to the UK before 11pm on 31 December 2020, but you will need to apply to the EU Settlement Scheme if you wish to stay beyond 30 June 2021.
If you are granted Pre-settled or Settled status under this scheme you will not need a visa to study beyond that date.
If you arrived in the UK on or after 1 January 2021, you may need to apply for a Student visa.
If you’re coming to study a subject that requires ATAS clearance (postgraduate and integrated Master's courses in some Science, Engineering and Technology subjects) you may need to apply for an ATAS certificate before you register on your course.
You may also need this if you’re applying for a Student visa.
Further information about ATAS and whether you’ll need to apply for a certificate .
If you withdraw from your studies or complete your course earlier than expected with a lower qualification, we are required to notify UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI).
Your Student visa will then be shortened to 60 days, during which you must leave the UK.
UKVI will contact you by email (using the address from your visa application), so make sure your contact details are up to date.
Working: You may continue to work, if permitted under your current visa, until the departure deadline specified by UKVI.
Leaving the UK: You must leave by the date confirmed by UKVI.
Staying beyond this point will make you an ‘overstayer’, which could negatively affect future UK visa applications.
After Departure: Your visa becomes invalid once you leave the UK and cannot be used to re-enter.
Academic Appeals: If you have submitted an academic appeal and are awaiting a decision, you may still need to apply for a new visa from your home country depending on the outcome and timing.
Applying for a New Visa: If you plan to study in the UK again but did not successfully complete the course your visa was issued for, you will not meet the UKVI academic progression requirement and must apply for a new Student visa from outside the UK.
If you need a Student visa to study in the UK, you’ll need a CAS before you apply for it.
A CAS is a unique reference number that you’ll need to enter in your Student visa application.
You can apply for a student visa up to 6 months before the start of your course and as soon as you have received your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Durham University makes every effort to ensure that the information published on this page is accurate.
However, the University cannot guarantee the information may not be altered owing to circumstances beyond the University’s reasonable control.
Such circumstances include (but are not limited to) change in Government policy, or change of law.
Any changes will be incorporated into the University’s website as early as possible.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/arrivals:
New international students who arrive at Newcastle Airport on Wednesday 24th and 25th September 2025 can book our free Meet and Greet Service:
The booking form for the September 2025 Meet and Greet service is now live and will remain open until Wednesday 17th September .
Please only fill in the booking form once you have had your accommodation confirmed.
To book your place on the free transport from Newcastle Airport to your accommodation, please complete the booking form here
Please note, any bookings made after Wednesday 17th September cannot be guaranteed.
Please email international.meetandgreet@durham.ac.uk if you have any queries about the Meet and Greet Service or your booking.
We look forward to welcoming you to Durham University.
Click here to see the answers to the frequently asked questions about the meet and greet service.
Click here to find out information about what to expect from the meet and greet service when you arrive into Newcastle Airport.
Learn about College information, Student Immigration pages and more
Information about how to get to Durham, accessibility information, and more

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/pathway-programmes:
Our pathway programmes prepare you for an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at Durham University.
International students who do not meet direct requirements have the option to study pathway programmes at the Durham University International Study Centre.
These pathways are designed to improve your academic modules, study skills and English language training.
The Durham University International Study Centre programmes are provided by Study Group in collaboration with Durham University.
They aim to give you the best chance of success when you progress to your degree at the University.
Choose from a range of flexible course
Upon successful completion, you can progress to your chosen degree at Durham University.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/our-prospectus/college-guides:
Find out more about our Colleges in our Colleges Guides, tailored to undergraduates and postgraduates.
Undergraduate Colleges Guide 2026
Postgraduate Colleges Guide
Want to find out more about our colleges or visit them in person?
Our open days provide the opportunity to explore our colleges and learn more about what it's like to study at Durham University.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/careers-employability-enterprise:
The Careers & Enterprise Centre offers services for current students and staff , graduates , and employers .
The Careers & Enterprise Centre is located on the ground floor of the Palatine Centre.
Opening Hours: Monday - Friday (10.00am - 4.00pm).
Tel: +44 (0)191 3341437

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/access-and-participation:
This will take effect on 1 September 2025.
Our priorities are to:
One in five of our UK undergraduate students come to us through a project designed to widen access to higher education.
The proportion of minority ethic students at Durham has increased by a third in just three years.
We’re investing £14 million every year on supporting less advantaged students to access and succeed in higher education.
We have a comprehensive range of support schemes available to help students succeed at Durham.
If you’ve got questions, you can ask our Chatbot HOLLY , or get in touch with us .
Here are some questions and answers you might find useful:
We’re making rapid progress in diversifying our student body.
A recent commentary on the development of Access and Participation Plans highlighted the progress made by Oxford and Durham in improving the ratio of advantaged to disadvantaged students.
Find out more on fair access and widening participation at Durham .
Our 20,000 students come from over 120 different countries around the world.
Of UK students, nine per cent come from North East England – second only to South East England (11 per cent).
In the past few years, we’ve significantly increased the number of students at Durham from the least advantaged backgrounds.
We’ve introduced a range of measures to support our students, from increasing the Durham Grant Scheme (which is one of the most generous in the UK) and our Student Support Fund to introducing money advice and free breakfast.
Find out more at our Cost of Living Hub .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/open-days/undergraduate:
Durham University is spread throughout Durham City so it is important to plan your visit before you arrive!
You can explore the University site on your own with the help of our self-guided tours and maps of Durham City.
Fill in our form to hear more about Durham University and be added to our mailing list.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/open-days/postgraduate:
Considering postgraduate study at Durham?
Our next Online Open Day takes place on Monday 9 June 2025.
Check out the session timetable and sign-up to learn more about what Durham has to offer.
Take a tour of our University Campus led by one of our Postgraduate Student Ambassadors this summer!
Find out more about our unique collegiate system and explore our beautiful and historic city.
Whether you are interested to know more about our academic courses or would like to find out what student life at Durham is really like, you can speak to staff members and current students via UniBuddy.
You can usually meet representatives from Durham University at recruitment fairs both across the UK and internationally.
We also host events across campus for current undergraduate students.
Y ou can find updates about any upcoming events on our Recruitment Fairs pages.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer/before-you-arrive/undergraduate-applicant-portal:
Please note, our Applicant Portal will be unavailable from 14:00 (BST/GMT+1) on Monday 28 July until 08:00 (BST/GMT+1) on Thursday 14 August.
If you need to send us a document related to your application, please email documents.educators@durham.ac.uk
Our Applicant Portal is designed to help you to manage different stages of your application, such as uploading documents or completing other actions related to your application.
In the applicant portal you will be able to:
Upload documents relevant to your application.
Complete your Final Acceptance once your application is "unconditional firm" with us.
Other forms may be listed for you to complete; these are often course specific.
To access the Applicant Portal please click here and follow the steps below:
Click ‘Enter Secure Area’
Here you will be prompted for your User ID and PIN, please note that the ID is case sensitive.
Please note, you'll only have 3 attempts to log in successfully, after which your account will be locked.
If you need to reset your account or haven't received your log-in details, please Ask Us or call us on 0800 987 4120 or +44 191 300 4557 .
Once you've logged in, click the grey ‘Student Services’ button.
Next, click the ‘UG and PGCE Applicants Information and Next Steps’ button, and click the option from the drop down that appears.
Please ignore all other options listed you will not need to use these options until you are directed to do so.
This brings you to the applicant portal, where you'll be given options based on what stage in your application you're in.
Once you've finished using the portal, please sign out at the top right of the page to keep your information secure.
If you have any issues using the portal, please Ask Us or call us on 0800 987 4120 or +44 191 300 4557 .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/entry-requirements:
Choosing your subjects at A level (or equivalent) is really important, especially if you aspire to study at a leading university.
The Russell Group guide, Informed Choices , has advice about the subjects you might choose if you have a particular degree in mind, or if you want to keep your options open.
These won’t be essential for all universities, not even Russell Group universities, but are intended to give you an idea of the most likely ones you might need (for example Informed Choices indicates that Geography is often essential to study Geography, but it isn’t an essential subject to study Geography at Durham).
We accept all language A levels (or equivalent), regardless of whether it's your main language or learned as an additional language.
When choosing which subjects to study, please be aware that some courses have an overlap in content and we may only be able to consider one of these courses as part of your three A levels (or equivalent).
Some examples of courses which have overlapping course content include:
Please Ask Us if you have any further questions.
We accept a wide range of qualifications from the UK and the rest of the world for entry to our undergraduate courses.
If you aren’t studying in a majority English speaking country, then you will need to demonstrate English language proficiency through an accepted English language test.
International students who do not meet entry requirements for your undergraduate study have an option to study a pathway programme at Durham University International Study Centre.
Upon successful completion, you will progress to your chosen degree at University.
Some courses also have additional selection criteria, such as tests or interviews that you must complete in order to be considered for a place.
Primary Education and Foundation courses include an interview .
For most undergraduate courses at Durham, you won’t need to sit an additional test as part of the selection process.
For courses in Law and Mathematics however, you are strongly encouraged to sit the subject specific test as these are used to help us select candidates to receive an offer.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/study-options:
Durham has one of the broadest choice of courses of any UK university, and our modular system allows you to tailor your degree to meet your needs.
You can study a range of subjects or study one or more disciplines in depth – the choice is yours.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/durhams-colleges-and-your-application:
All students at Durham University are members of one of our colleges.
Colleges are residential communities that offer student-led opportunities and events in drama, music, sport and volunteering, as well as a wide range of other activities and facilities.
Colleges also offer professional support for student wellbeing and self-development.
We know that the majority of first-year undergraduate students thrive when they live in college and we can guarantee an offer of accommodation to those who apply for it.
The majority of our student rooms are located in colleges themselves, with some in college-managed accommodation elsewhere in the City.
Accommodation may be catered or self-catered, en-suite or standard.
You can find out more about our colleges and the range of facilities and opportunities they offer at durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges .
If you receive an academic offer to study with us, you will be invited at this point to submit your college preferences and to rank these in order.
We encourage all applicants to find out more at durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges and to submit their ranked preferences.
All offer-holders will receive a preliminary college allocation.
This process takes your preferences into account, but also seeks to balance the number of students from each academic department across the colleges.
These two factors are applied to match each offer-holder with a college.
Offer-holders who have applied by 31 January 2024 will hear of their preliminary college allocation no later than May 2024.
Learn more about the college allocation process .
In order to ensure that all our applicants have the chance to benefit from living in college or college-managed accommodation, we do reserve the right to change your college allocation after the A-level results.
If you are successful in meeting the terms of your offer and your place at Durham is confirmed – or where you do not meet the terms of the offer but the University at its discretion confirms your place – then your final college allocation will also be confirmed shortly thereafter.
We will try to ensure that your confirmed college remains the same as the preliminary college membership allocated earlier, but, as outlined, we do not guarantee it and we do reserve the right to change your college allocation.
If you have applied to live in our accommodation, we will first send a room preference email (please note again that it may not always be possible to meet your preference) and then we will issue your license agreement for you to secure your accommodation.
It is important to remember that while each of our colleges is different, they all offer a welcoming and supportive community, with opportunities to get involved, challenge yourself and make new friends.
Most students settle very quickly into their college, and soon develop a sense of belonging which lasts a lifetime.
Service / Dept: Recruitment and Admissions
Team / Role: Undergraduate Admissions
Phone / Email / Form: +44 (0)191 334 1000

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/writing-a-personal-statement:
The personal statement is your opportunity to show the universities you are applying to that you are the ideal candidate for their course.
It should be all about you – why you’re interested in the course, what makes you unique and what makes you stand out.
With only one personal statement for all your choices, it’s important that you use this opportunity to show why you’re better than everyone else applying and why we should choose you.
We use the personal statement to help distinguish between applications for our most selective courses.
This may change each cycle, however in recent years the personal statement has been of particular importance for applications to the following areas of study (including joint honours courses):
The guidance on this page is for applicants applying during the current admissions cycle (for 2025 or 2026 entry).
If you're planning to apply next year, then find out more about the UCAS Personal Statement 2026 on our dedicated webpage.
Before writing your personal statement it’s worth doing a bit of research to find out what your choice universities are looking for and what will make you stand out from the competition.
Whilst “personal statement” makes it sound like it’s a biography about you, some of the best personal statements we’ve seen are more like a mini essay related to the course.
Think about what areas of the subject you enjoy and tell us what you understand about them; we want to know your thoughts about them and why you think that.
Show us your passion, knowledge and skills by demonstrating your engagement with the subject.
Think about how you can back up what you say and that you can critically engage with your subject.
If you got excited about a course because of an article or book you read, or a lecture you went to, tell us about it!
Most of the statement should be about the subject you want to study, but we also like to hear a little bit about what you get involved in outside of your studies.
We know that some of our applicants work part time, have carer responsibilities or perhaps are involved in high level sport, music or drama, for example, and it’s exciting to see applicants who are successful with their studies whilst also balancing other demands on their time as there’s a lot to get involved with at Durham.
If you have relevant interests to your course then we’d like to hear about those too, for example if you’re applying to an education course and have been involved in tutoring other students.
There are loads of UCAS resources you can use to help get you started, including a personal statement mind map and worksheet .
You’ve only got 4000 characters, including spaces, to convince us we should choose you, so make every word count.
These do’s and don’ts should help you along the way.
Do:
Don’t:
Writing an excellent personal statement needn’t be scary if you remember to be focussed, enthusiastic and genuine.
We want something that tells us all about you and the contribution you can make to our community.
It is not necessary to write an additional personal statement, however we have a tool just for Durham applicants which allows you to submit a substitute personal statement if the Durham course you’re applying to is very different to the one in your UCAS personal statement.
For example, if you applied to four Chemistry courses but you also applied to our Natural Sciences course (even including Chemistry, but with other subjects too), or perhaps you have applied to Medicine at four other universities but chose Anthropology as your fifth choice with us.
We ask that you:
Submit a substitute personal statement
Need to get in touch with us?
UCAS checks all personal statements with their Similarity Detection software (CopyCatch) to ensure your work doesn’t contain the same or similar text to websites, another applicant's personal statement, or other documents.
When a personal statement is detected as having similarity to one of these sources, UCAS provides us with a report highlighting the similarity and an indication of what the text in the statement is similar to.
Once we are notified that an application contains text similar to elsewhere, we will use information from UCAS and from the applicant to determine the seriousness of the similarity found in the personal statement and departments will then make an academic decision which is communicated to applicants through UCAS as normal.
Each applicant whose personal statement is flagged to us by the UCAS Similarity Detection Service will be contacted by the UG Admissions Team to offer the opportunity to explain how the similarity occurred.
For those admitted as a student, Durham University takes all forms of Academic Misconduct, including 'plagiarism' or 'copying' very seriously and submitting work which is not entirely a student's own can lead to expulsion from the University.
We also operate a fair and transparent admissions process and as such, need to ensure that all information provided to us is honest and accurate.
If you have submitted an application to us and you have been notified that UCAS has detected similarity in your personal statement, you can contact us directly to explain the similarity though.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/applicants-with-disabilities:
Durham is committed to considering all applications equally, and if you consider yourself to have a disability you are encouraged to declare this during the application process.
A decision on your undergraduate or postgraduate application is made solely on academic grounds, in line with our Admissions Policies and completely independently of any discussions you may have with Disability Support.
We want to make sure you get the most from university life.
By telling us about a disability or medical condition as early as possible, we can identify any additional support you might need.
If you would like to get in touch with us, please call us on 0191 334 8115, or email us at disability.support@durham.ac.uk .
If you declare a disability on your UCAS application then you will receive an email from us about our Disability Support Service which also invites you to get in touch to discuss what support is available, including any financial support you might be entitled to.
Doing this early in the application process means that if you become a student with us then everything should be in place when you join.
Anything you disclose to us will be in confidence, but it may be necessary to divulge information with relevant staff or other agencies inside or outside the university to help with your support package.
If we need to do this we will ask your permission to do so.
Don’t worry if you don’t declare a disability on your UCAS application, or you find out you need to talk to us after you’ve submitted your application.
You can contact Disability Support at any time during the application process.
If you are made an offer on a postgraduate course at Durham then we’ll send you an action request through your Applicant Portal asking you about your medical conditions.
You will need to submit information through your Applicant Portal by clicking on the arrow next to your course and choosing the ‘Submit Medical Conditions’ option.
It’s important you do this as soon as possible so that we can discuss any support needs you might have with you before you arrive .
If you want to visit Durham as part of an undergraduate or postgraduate Open Day then you will be asked about any support arrangements you might need as part of the booking process.
If you are invited to attend an interview either virtually or on-campus then you will be asked about any support needs you might have in the letter inviting you to interview.
It’s important that you advise us of these as soon as possible so we can make appropriate arrangements before your interview day.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/what-happens-to-your-application:
Find out here what happens after you have applied to study with us.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/decisions-and-replies:
Once you’ve received all of the decisions on your applications you’ll need to start thinking about your next steps.
Read on for advice on what happens when you get your decision from Durham.
If you receive an offer to study at Durham – congratulations!
You’ll be able to see our offer at UCAS .
It’s important you read your offer carefully and Ask Us if you need clarification.
You’ll also receive an email from us telling you more about things like your tuition fees, college allocation, a link to our offer guide and our terms and conditions.
You should read this email and our offer guide carefully and make sure you note down any actions you need to take and by when.
As soon as booking is open for our Post-offer Visit Days , which take place in Spring, we’ll send you an email with all the information you’ll need to reserve a place.
Post-offer Visit Days are a great opportunity for you to find out more about the course you’ve applied for, about our college communities and about the beautiful city of Durham.
If you can't make it to a Post-offer Visit Day, then we run Discover Durham Tours where you can visit a college and tour the University with one of our Student Ambassadors.
These are subject to Covid-19 restrictions, and we may offer online alternatives instead.
Either way, we hope to see you there!
Once you’ve received all of your decisions from UCAS you’ll need to make your firm and insurance choices.
Your firm choice is the place you really want to go to (and we hope that’s Durham!) and your insurance choice is your second choice.
You’ll be given a date by UCAS to respond by, so do make sure that you reply within the deadline.
If you choose Durham as your firm or insurance choice, then check out our Offer Holder pages for more information.
If we haven’t been able to make you an offer , we know you’ll be disappointed.
We'll have provided you feedback in your decision at UCAS to tell you why you were unsuccessful.
At Durham, we receive many more applications than we have places to give.
Our holistic approach to selection means we don’t just look at your qualifications, so even if you’re predicted to achieve, or even exceed, our standard offer you might be unsuccessful .
In a competitive process, and one in which we compare applications against each other, we can only give offers to the applications which, in our view, are the very st rongest.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/undergraduate-admissions-statistics:
Number and Percentage of applications that receive an offer report
This information shows the number and percentage of applications that receive an offer.
The data is broken down by department and by Home/Islands and EU/Overseas.
The number and percentage of applications receiving an offer varies from year to year, but will provide you with an idea of how competitive each department is.
This is information that Durham University submits to the Office for Students (OfS) in its annual transparency return.
The information is available to download in the links below:
The information available to download in the link above shows for 2020/21 entry:
It shows these numbers by reference to:
The information available to download in the link above shows for 2019/20 entry:
The information available to download in the link above shows for 2018-19 entry:
It also shows these numbers by reference to:
It is important to note that the data presented has not been contextualised.
This means, for example, that you will not be able to see from this data how many of those applying to courses met the entry criteria.
It is also the case that universities and colleges will often receive many more applications than they have spaces on courses and so offer rates will necessarily be lower than application rates in those circumstances.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/admissions-policy:
Our Admissions Policies are based on the core principles of fairness, transparency, consistency and operating a professional admissions process.
This policy applies to all undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research applicants beginning their studies at Durham in the 2025-26 academic year.
The policy covers the University’s position on recruitment and admissions and how your application will be assessed and dealt with, from the point of applying through to enrolling at Durham.
Admissions Policy 2024-25
These policies should be considered alongside the above Admissions Policy
Durham University aims to provide a high standard and quality of service for applicants and to deliver an admissions process that is consistent, fair, and professional, but recognises that occasionally things may go wrong.
As part of its commitment to enhancing the applicant experience, this procedure has been established to deal with complaints from applicants in a fair and transparent manner.
The University recognises that complaints may provide useful feedback from applicants and, where appropriate, will be used to improve the admissions process.
These procedures explain how applicants to undergraduate and postgraduate programmes may make a complaint, both informal and formal.
Applicants who have a complaint to make should raise it as soon as possible, as matters that are dealt with informally at an early stage have the best chance of being resolved effectively.
Only when the informal procedures have been exhausted and the applicant remains dissatisfied should a formal complaint be made.
Please note:
Formal complaints can only be made once an application has been submitted to the University.
Complaints about the Durham University International Study Centre (DUISC) should not be made using this process and should instead be made to Study Group
If you have any questions about our Admissions Policies, please ask us.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fair-access-and-widening-participation/widening-access-and-participation:
Read what our students said about their experience at Durham!

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fair-access-and-widening-participation/accreditation-of-prior-learning-apl:
Accreditation of prior learning allows us to give you credit for any previous study at undergraduate level if you’ve left your course before completing it.
It may be possible for us to give you credit for any modules you passed in your previous course as long as there is sufficient unit match with the course you want to study at Durham, and you left your previous university in ‘good academic standing’.
If you’ve studied at another university and would like to apply to Durham then you’ll need to apply through UCAS .
All of our courses will accept transfers from other universities into Year 1 and many will accept transfers into Year 2, all of which will be looked at on a case-by-case basis (in competition with all other ‘on-time’ applications we receive), depending on the course you have studied elsewhere and whether the modules you have studied meet our pre-requisites.
Transfers into Years 3 or 4 of any of our courses is not possible.
As well as considering your current course, we normally expect you to have achieved the entry requirements for the course you are applying for.
These can be found on our courses database here.
In exceptional cases, we may be able to consider you if you’ve narrowly missed the entry requirements if:
If you are leaving your current course or if you left a previous course due to academic failure, we would only be able to consider your application if there was evidence of special circumstances affecting your studies.
For more information on this, please see our good standing regulations.
We are happy to provide advice and guidance before you make an application if you Ask Us .
If you are interested in applying for Year 2 entry then we strongly recommend you to contact us before you make an application.
The following Departments will not consider transfers into Year 2 of their courses:
If you have studied at another university or are currently studying at another university, please include the following information in your application:
You must include all information about your current or previous study on your application.
If you have any further questions about transferring to Durham, please Ask Us.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fair-access-and-widening-participation/contextual-admissions:
At Durham we are committed to ensuring that applicants to undergraduate courses have their application considered using a contextualised admissions approach.
Many talented students do not experience excellence in their education; whilst others do not have access to opportunities for wider social experiences and support or diverse extra curriculum activities.
To redress this imbalance our contextual offer scheme enables admissions selectors to vary our published grade offer by one or two points.
This ensures students who are academically able to study with us receive an appropriate offer.
Research led by Durham University academic, Professor Vikki Boliver, provides an important contribution to national debates about how best to ensure fair access to higher education.
This research highlights the correlation between socioeconomic background and school achievement and makes the case for considering an applicants’ qualifications in light of their socioeconomic circumstances to ensure that the potential of applicants is not overlooked.
Year on year we continue to work towards our institutional goals and towards targets set out within Durham’s Access and Participation Plan (formally the Access Agreement).
Our fair access and widening participation targets are set out within our published Access and Participation Plan.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees:
The UK Government has recently confirmed increases in tuition fees for UK students studying in England, and in maintenance loans for English students.
These increases will take effect from 1 August 2025.
These changes mean that for full-time UK undergraduate students studying in England, the maximum tuition fee will rise to £9,535 per year , an increase of £285.
For English undergraduate students studying outside London, the maximum maintenance loan will rise to £10,544 per year, an increase of £317.
Different arrangements apply in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
You can read more about these changes  on the UK Government website.
Durham University will adopt tuition fees at the new rate of £9,535 per year.
Durham University will charge home rate tuition fees up to the maximum allowed by the UK Government.
Should the UK Government choose to increase the maximum tuition fee allowed in the second and subsequent years of your course, Durham University will raise tuition fees in line with UK Government policy and approvals.
For UK students with an approved tuition fee loan, the Student Loan Company will pay the tuition fees directly to the University.
You will only start to repay the tuition fee loan once you earn over the earnings threshold.
The amount you then pay back each year will depend on what you earn (not on how much you have borrowed).
Your annual repayments will not increase due to the change in tuition fees.
There is more information on UK government funding here: Government Funding - Durham University .
Some students may choose to pay tuition fees directly themselves.
Fees can be paid via direct debit, bank transfer, or debit/credit card.
You can find information on how to do this here: How to Pay Your Invoice - Durham University .
Tuition fees are payable for every year of your course (including during placement and study abroad).
If you spend a year on placement during academic year 2025/26 then the tuition fee is £1,905, and if you spend a year abroad then the tuition fee is £1,430.
Tuition fees for entry in 2026 have not yet been agreed.
If you have applied for deferred entry in 2026 or request to do so in the future, you will be advised of the fee you will have to pay no later than June of the year in which you start your course.
Following the UK’s exit from the European Union, students from the EU, EEA and Swiss nationals will no longer be eligible for home fee status or financial support from Student Finance England.
Unless you are an EU, EEA or Swiss national benefitting from Citizens’ Rights under the EU Withdrawal Agreement, EEA EFTA Separation Agreement or Swiss Citizens’ Rights Agreement respectively then you will be charged overseas fees (which can be found using our courses search below).
The UK Government is firmly committed to maintaining the rights of Irish citizens to access higher and further education courses on a reciprocal basis.
This includes rights to home fee status, tuition fee loans and maintenance support subject to meeting the eligibility criteria on the same basis as UK nationals.
Irish citizens resident in the UK, Islands or Ireland for three years before the start of their course and undertaking a course in England will be eligible for home fee status, tuition fee loans and Advanced Learner Loans from Student Finance England on the same basis as UK nationals.
For students starting their programme in 2025/26 (and later), fees will be subject to an annual inflationary increase and are expected to rise throughout the programme of study.
The fee listed on the course database is for the first year of the course only; fees for subsequent years will be confirmed not less than 3 months before the start of the academic year to which the increase is intended to apply and will be published on the Finance webpages.
In deciding the annual level of increase the University will take into account inflationary pressures on the costs of delivery.
Tuition fees will rise annually by up to the higher of;

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/how-to-pay-your-invoice:
How to Pay Your Invoice
If you wish to make a card payment visit pay.durham.ac.uk/invoice-payments
International Bank Transfer or International Card for Overseas Students - Flywire
Pay now with EasyTransfer - https://pay.easytransferglobal.com/durham
Your College Finance Office is your first point of contact for queries about your accommodation charge or if you are experiencing financial difficulty.
College finance office email addresses are:
If you still have other questions, please contact the Finance Service at studentbilling.query@durham.ac.uk .
Please note that we have a small team of three staff who are responding to these queries, along with performing other tasks.
We hope to respond within five working days.
If you would like someone to telephone you or to hold a “Teams” conversation please put this request in your email and someone will get in touch.
Given the global pandemic we are not operating our Cashier’s reception as normal, but are considering opening on a limited basis where a face-to-face meeting is essential.
A booking system will be in operation – further details to follow.
Find out more about fees and funding for undergraduate and postgraduate studies.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/living-costs:
As well as the cost of your accommodation you will have other living costs.
See below for some of the costs you may need to factor into your budget as a student:
Some of these costs will be essential, whereas others (particularly leisure costs) could be seen as non-essential.
It is advisable to cover your essential costs first before spending on non-essentials.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/government-funding:
Eligible UK students can apply for a tuition fee loan to cover tuition fee costs and a maintenance loan to help with living costs.
A tuition fee loan covers the full tuition fee and is paid directly to the University, meaning you don’t have to pay your fees upfront or while your studying.
A Maintenance Loan from the Government will help you with living costs.
How much you’ll get depends on your household income.
You apply to one of the following, depending on where you live:
Loans need to be re-paid, but not until the April after your graduate, only when you are earning over £25,000 a year, and only in affordable instalments (not all at once).
You don’t have to take out a tuition fee loan or maintenance loan if you don’t want to.
If you would prefer you can pay your fees directly to the university .
You may be able to access additional funding if you have adult dependents, children, have a disability, or come from a low-income household.
More information is available from the organisation relevant to the country where you live.
The university also has a range of scholarships you can apply for.
If you are an EU student benefitting from Citizens’ Rights under the EU Withdrawal Agreement, EEA EFTA Separation Agreement or Swiss Citizens’ Rights Agreement respectively or are a citizen of the Irish Re public then you can find information on available support on the GOV.UK website .
As an international student, you are responsible for paying your tuition fees and accommodation costs on arrival at the university.
You will be given an invoice which will tell you the date you need to make payment by.
Direct debit is our preferred payment method, but you can also pay by c redit card, cheque, banke rs draft or bank transfer.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer/before-you-arrive:
As a Durham offer holder you’ll find important information here about what happens next and some of the things you need to do to make sure the next stage of your student journey with us goes smoothly.
Before you start your studies, make sure your finances are in order with this helpful guide.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer/life-in-durham:
As a Durham student, you become a member of a college, somewhere that is so much more than just the place where you will live.
In each of our colleges, you will find a sense of community that is distinctive to Durham.
In this video, Carina looks back on how she found her friends at Durham & how easy the collegiate system makes finding your people.
In this video students Alvi, Shannon and Emma tell you all about putting on a show at Durham.
Find out more about our fanatastic theatre scene which is lead by students.
Once exams are over, it’s time to relax and have fun.
Each of our Colleges celebrate the end of the academic year with special events, from Balls to College Days.
Hear from one of our students, Helena, as she talks about the support in place at Durham University for its students.
International Student Video Competition 1st prize winner: Peter Liu from China, studying MMath Mathematics, Trevelyan College.
I have loved my first two years in Durham so much that it is very hard to pin down my favourite things but if I had to decide, these would be my top ten.
I hope you enjoy hearing a bit more about some of the things that make Durham so great.
Drink lots of coffee and hot chocolate!
Join us on a cafe tour in the pouring rain.
Somehow the city still looks truly magical.
Learn more about our Open Days and visits, or take a virtual self-guided tour of Durham from the comfort of your own home using our Durham University Tours app!

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer/parents:
Whether your child/dependent’s results are what they need to get into their first choice, or things don’t quite turn out as expected, we’re here to help you understand what might happen next.
Clearing runs from 5 July and gives students another opportunity to apply for university courses with available places.
Clearing is ideal for:
Universities that have places available in Clearing will advertise them through UCAS and on their own websites.
They’ll also advertise ways they can be contacted – many will have set up special Clearing helplines to take calls.
Durham University’s number is +44 (0) 800 987 4120 and is available from 7 July to 13 August, between 10am and 4pm, 14 August 8am-6pm and 15-22 August 9am-5pm BST (GMT+1)
If your child/dependent decides to enter Clearing starting from 5 July, they will need to submit their application directly through the UCAS Hub.
Our Undergraduate Admissions team will then review the application.
They will then receive an update via UCAS.
From 14th August they will need to call our Clearing hotline or complete our Clearing online web form.
They’ll need to tell us what course they’re interested in, their results (including any English Language qualifications, secondary school qualifications like GCSEs or equivalents).
They’ll also need to provide their contact details, including an email address they can access easily.
Please note no verbal offers will be given over the phone.
If successful they will be emailed a provisional offer providing instructions on how to formalise their Clearing offer through UCAS.
Whatever the reason your child/dependent decides to enter Clearing, it’s important to be prepared.
No matter the outcome, support and encouragement go a long way.
Whether or not your child/dependent receives a provisional offer in Clearing, they will need to refer themselves via the UCAS Hub, to formalise their Clearing place at Durham.
Here's what you need to know:
Once your child/dependent has referred themselves, they are accepting the provisional offer the university has given them.
They’ll then need to wait for the university to process their decision and send it to UCAS.
When that happens, they can start to prepare for the start of term.
If your child doesn’t want to go through Clearing, that’s okay too.
There are other pathways, such as: Appealing their results, resitting exams or taking a gap year and reapplying next year.
Once students accept an offer of a place to study at Durham via Clearing, the Colleges Membership and Accommodation Office will be in contact about confirming accommodation.
Find out more about our colleges

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/why-durham:
When you study at Durham you’ll graduate with so much more than a degree.
You’ll have the chance to develop your skills, explore your career options and ensure you’ve got the best possible start to your future.
With 27 academic departments offering more than 120 undergraduate courses, our teaching is research-informed and led by dedicated academics, many of whom are world-leading experts in their field.
At Durham academic success is only half the story though.
85% of our students are involved in sport, music, theatre, volunteering or student enterprise.
Durham is a collegiate university, which means your student experience will be distinctive and based in one of our 17 college communities.
Every college has its own character and traditions, and each one offers an inspiring and supportive community.
Our graduate success rates speak for themselves - we currently rank 64 th in the world for employer reputation in the QS World University Rankings 2026 .
Many of our graduates go on to achieve incredible things in law, science, academia, business, the arts, government, journalism and athletics.
At Durham, we welcome students from all backgrounds and encourage everyone who has the merit and potential to succeed to take a look at what we have to offer.
We are committed to widening access and participation, and our undergraduate student body has significantly diversified in recent years.
In the academic year 2022/23, around a quarter of our home undergraduate students had been accepted at Durham through our widening access schemes.
These include our Foundation Programme, Supported Progression, the Sutton Trust, and our guaranteed contextual offer.
In the past four years, we have seen a 70% growth in UK Black undergraduate entrants, and between 2016 and 2022 the proportion of entrants with a declared disability has risen more than 70%.
As we look to diversify the student body more broadly, we have also increased the proportion of international (non-EU) undergraduate entrants to 27% between 2016 and 2022.
The Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) is a national scheme run by the Office for Students (OfS) that aims to encourage higher education providers to improve and deliver excellence in the areas that students care about the most: teaching, learning and achieving positive outcomes from their studies.
The TEF does this by assessing and rating universities and colleges for excellence above a set of minimum requirements for quality and standards.
Read more
Our overall rating is Silver, this means our student experience and student outcomes are typically very high quality.
Our Student Outcomes rating is gold, this means that student outcomes at Durham are typically outstanding.
The TEF panel determined that all the features for student outcomes at Durham – the proportion of our students continuing in and completing their degrees, and progressing to highly skilled employment or further study – were outstanding, judging “there to be evidence of typically outstanding quality student outcomes across the aspect as a whole, including for students from underrepresented groups.”
The panel found our approaches to supporting our students’ educational gain to be “evidence-based and of demonstrable impact [and] … the approaches described to be highly effective and tailored to the mix of students and their different starting points,” ensuring that “all students can achieve educational gains, through both the curriculum and the co-curriculum.”
Our Student Experience rating is Silver, this means that the student experience at Durham is typically very high quality.
The panel found our approach to research, innovation, scholarship, professional practice and employer engagement to be an outstanding quality feature.
These ratings were awarded in 2023, for four years.
When I was considering my university options, I remember looking at the different facilities each uni was offering and seeing many of them advertising suites of state-of-the-art labs, fancy technical equipment, and specialised science blocks.
Cut through the noise and get a prospectus that is tailored to you.
Explore our courses to find the one that's right for you.
See what our students are up to besides their studies and follow them on TikTok.
Or, as Durham is a beautiful city and stunning place to live and study - check out our student-run Instagram!

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/open-days/events:
Open Days are the best way for you to find out about Durham.
19 September 2025
Open Days are the best way for you to find out about Durham.
20 September 2025

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/scholarships/undergraduate:
Durham University is committed to supporting the best students irrespective of financial circumstances.
The following scholarships are either funded by the university, through partnerships with external organisations or through generous donations from alumni and friends of the University.
All financial support opportunities have associated eligibility criteria such as household income therefore it is essential applicants consider all requirements prior to submitting an application.
Please also ensure you observe any application deadlines and submission requirements.
to be confirmed
£2,500 scholarship paid directly  towards tuition or residential costs.
£1,500 scholarship paid directly to recipient to cover costs associated with internships/international experience/wider student experience.
14th October 2024
Graham and Joanna Barker Scholarship for Music
Open Date:
Low household income applicants from the North East of England with a preference for Bishop Auckland.
Postcode regions: DH, DL, NE, SR, TS.
Durham University makes every effort to ensure that the information published or contained on its website is accurate.
However, the University cannot guarantee the information may not subsequently be altered owing to circumstances beyond the University's reasonable control.
Such circumstances include (but are not limited to) changes in Government policy or change of law.
Whilst any changes will be incorporated into the University's website any person wishing to clarify the details of a particular scholarship/s should contact scholarships.advice@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/student-connect:
Considering starting your higher education journey at Durham – you can connect to one of our students or staff and ask any questions you might have.
Chat with an Undergraduate or Postgraduate student.
Our ambassadors are here to share their experiences of their course, and provide the student insight to life at Durham
Chat with staff regarding Postgraduate study options or with our your International Office representative.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/departments/centres/academic-development/study/foundation:
Durham University’s Foundation Programme has been delivering high quality academic preparation for undergraduate study at Durham University since 1992.
It provides entry to a wide range of degree subjects for learners from some under-represented groups in higher education (check Eligibility ), who need a year 0 course in order to be prepared for undergraduate studies.
Foundation Programme courses are fully integrated elements of Durham University degree programmes and students are full members of the university.
This means they become members of a college and enjoy full access to the extensive extracurricular opportunities within the university right from day one.
Students who successfully reach the progression standard by the end of the foundation year automatically gain entry to year one of their registered degree course without the need for a further UCAS application.
The majority of our students are from non-traditional university backgrounds.
Many are from the North East of England, though all regions of the UK are usually represented.
Foundation Programme staff are experts at teaching foundation level courses and are engaged in a wide range of scholarship activities, adding to the body of knowledge within their respective discipline areas and in the field of learning and teaching.
There are many types of foundation year.
At Durham, the foundation year is a 'year 0' element of an undergraduate degree programme that is designed for students from some under-represented groups in higher education, who have the potential to achieve the standard for admission to Durham, but who, as a result of educational disadvantage or disruption (please note that applicants must also meet eligibility criteria ), do not have the level of attainment or access to qualifications required for entry to a Durham University course.
All Foundation Programmes are delivered by a dedicated team of academic tutors from Durham’s Centre for Academic Development (DCAD).
Each year the Programmes provide places for around 100 students and supports them to progress to Level 1 study in their progressing academic department in the University.
Foundation students matriculate fully into the university, including becoming a member of one of the colleges open to undergraduate students.
Many degree courses are available 'with foundation'.
Discover if the subject you wish to study has a foundation year by searching the University’s course database .
This will enable you to see if your chosen degree subject is available with a foundation year.
You can also use the University’s course database to find out more about the course content, the entry requirements, and other relevant information about our courses.
The list of courses for 2026 entry with Foundation is available below.
Foundation Programme for Arts and Humanities courses
Foundation Programme for Business courses
Foundation Programme for Science courses
Foundation Programme for Social Science courses
Each of the available degree courses has a defined foundation year.
Students study modules that add up to 120 'credits', learning both core general academic skills and subject-specific content that will enable them to enter and thrive in year one of their degree subjects.
Foundation Programme also organises (subject to staff availability and funding) educational field trips to Beamish, Howarth, Newcastle and Czech Republic .
The tuition fees for a foundation year in 2025/26 are £5760 for classroom based subjects and £9535 for non-classroom based subjects.
Non-classroom based subjects include Biology, Computer Sciences, Archaeology, Geography, Sports Science, and Psychology based routes.
Standard undergraduate fees apply for all other years of undergraduate study.
A number of scholarships available to Foundation Programme students that offer a financial support to eligible applicants including Undergraduate Scholarships , Leathersellers' Undergraduate Student Grants and North East Scholarships.
If you think the foundation year may be for you and if you think you may be eligible, please see our how to apply page .
Please note that this inbox only deals with Foundation Programme enquiries.
This is not the inbox for direct entry and International Foundation Programme enquiries.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught-degrees/application-guidance:
We are now accepting applications for 2025/26 Academic Year entry
Apply for a Masters Programme.
Want to learn more about Postgraduate Study at Durham?
Check out our FAQs or submit an enquiry form to ask a member of our helpful Student Recruitment and Admissions team.
Apply for our PGCE courses and explore our other pathways to Teacher Training
Explore our other routes to a teaching career

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught-degrees/fees-and-funding:
You’ll need to pay an annual tuition fee for your postgraduate taught course.
The fee you will pay depends on the course you are studying, if it’s full-time or part-time and whether you are a home or international student.
You can find the fee for each course in the ‘Fees and Funding’ section of the course detail pages.
Fees quoted are normally for one year of study and are subject to increases in subsequent years.
If you’ve been made an offer by Durham the fee will also be in your offer letter, together with your fee status.
Please visit Durham's Scholarship pages for information on Postgraduate Scholarships
We carry out fee status assessments when you apply.
If you think you have been assessed incorrectly then you will need to contact us through the Applicant Portal .
There are also additional costs which are not covered by your tuition fees.
These are for things like books, printing and gown hire at congregation.
There may also be additional charges involved in your course, for example field study visits.
The courses database will tell you more about these costs.
You’ll also need to budget for living expenses.
How much you’ll need depends on your own personal circumstances, but you’ll need to cover accommodation costs , food and other household expenses, utilities, clothing, travel, mobile phone and leisure.
Our guide to living costs may help you work out how much you might need to allocate in your budget for these kinds of expenses.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/how-to-apply:
Find out how to apply for a research degree at Durham, including information about finding a supervisor, entry requirements, writing a research proposal and the Applicant Portal.
When applying to study for a research degree you should find out if your academic department shares your research interests and that there is a supervisor with expertise in your subject area to support you.
All of our departments are happy to discuss their areas of expertise so please do get in touch with them before applying.
Each course has its own entry requirements and you’ll need to check what they are for the course you’re interested in.
As a guide, you’ll usually need at least a 2:1 honours degree or its equivalent.
We welcome applications from overseas students and you can check our country information pages for details on how your qualification compares to the UK system.
You’ll also need to check our English language requirements to make sure your English language is at the level for you to be able to succeed on your course.
Further advice on visa requirements, including how to get your Certificate of Acceptance for Studies is available from our Visa Information pages.
Your research proposal is an integral part of your application.
You should make contact with the department where you are interested in studying to discuss your research proposal with them.
Depending on the department, they may then nominate potential supervisors, who will help you to develop your research proposal before you make an application.
You can find information and advice about how to write your research proposal on our department pages:
You can often start a research degree at different times of the year as well as in the autumn term, with some available in January and April/May.
You should let us know when you apply when you would like to start your studies and leave enough time for the application process to be completed before the start of your course.
If you’re an international student then you’ll also need enough time to apply for a Student visa.
Some applications may specify a deadline by which you must apply, so it’s worth asking the department where you would like to study this to make sure you apply in time.
Once you have refined your research proposal you’re now ready to make an application through our Applicant Portal .
You don’t have to submit your application all in one go.
The application is organised into sections so once you’ve started it you can save it and come back to it at any time.
You’ll need to upload certain documents as part of the application process so it’s a good idea to have these ready when you apply.
Don’t worry if you don’t have all of your documents with you when you apply as you can always uplo ad them later through the portal.
As an applicant for a research degree, you’ll also need to give us an outline of your field of study and the name and department of your potential supervisor .
We communicate with you through your applicant portal through action requests and notifications, so it’s a good idea to log in to your portal regularly so you can check on the progress of your application .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/fees-and-funding:
You’ll need to pay an annual tuition fee for your course.
They will also be quoted in your offer letter, together with your fee status.
If you think you have been assessed incorrectly then you will need to contact us through the Applicant Portal.
There are also additional costs that are not covered by your tuition fees.
These are for things like books, printing, and gown hire at congregation.
There may also be additional charges involved in your course, for example, field study visits.
Your department will be able to tell you more about these costs.
Additional administrative charges may also be made for things such as re-examination and late payments.
More information on administrative charges
How much you’ll need depends on your own personal circumstances, but you’ll need to cover accommodation costs, food and other household expenses, utilities, clothing, travel, mobile phone and leisure.
Our guide to living costs may help you work out how much you might need to allocate in your budget for these kinds of expenses.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/open-days/self-guided-tours:
Our brand new app 'Durham University Tours' is available to download in the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store now!
This will enable you to take self-guided tours, either in-person around the city or remotely from the comfort of your own home!
The app provides a range of tours so that you have multiple options to choose from!
We have four audio tours available for you:
You will also find two feature lists
Durham is a beautiful, historic city with so much to see and do.
If you've never visited Durham before, then you may want some extra information about the area.
We've included links to the This is Durham website and the Durham Pointers website, both of which are extremely valuable resources!

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/research-opportunities:
Durham University offers a wide range of research degrees, including MA, MSc, MLitt, MPhil, MRes and PhD, which can be studied for one, two or three years (full-time), or two, four or six years (part-time).
You will develop your own timetable of academic study under the supervision of a team of academic staff who will help and support you to undertake your research project and complete your degree on time.
Your supervisory team will have appropriate expertise in your area of study and we support them to deliver high-quality supervision through our extensive training and mentoring programmes.
You can find out more about current postgraduate research opportunities by visiting our department web pages , or through our Doctoral Training Partnerships .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/research-opportunities/doctoral-training-partnerships:
To help meet global demand for highly qualified people, Durham University has teamed up with private and public sector organisations to establish doctoral training partnerships and centres that provide outstanding training and research opportunities for postgraduate students.
To apply or find out more, select from the following:
Durham Global Challenges Centre for Doctoral Training Durham Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships in Visual Culture Soft Matter for Formulation and Industrial Innovation (SOFI) Environmental and Earth Sciences Arts and Humanities Molecular Sciences for Medicine CDT NINE DTP Biosciences Islamic Finance Durham ARCTIC Pro:NE Studentship(s)
THE ENERGY SECTOR
The NERC Centre for Doctoral Training in Oil and Gas EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in the Science and Technology of Fusion Energy The Multidisciplinary Centre for Doctoral Training in Energy Aura Renewable Energy Northeast Universities (ReNU)
Tropical diseases, water security and flooding are some of the issues being tackled by this training centre dedicated to global challenges.
We are training postgraduate students from around the world who will work on projects in developing countries alongside our researchers in the Sciences, Social Sciences, and Arts and Humanities.
Each project is supervised by a multidisciplinary team, with the aim of solving a specific global challenge aligned with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Contact: CDT Administrator Abir van Hunen
Website: Durham Global Challenges Centre for Doctoral Training
The Durham Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships in Visual Culture build upon the University’s international excellence in vision and perception, analysis of the social significance of images and ways of seeing, and the attentive interpretation of visual objects.
Scholarships, supported by the Leverhulme Trust, are open to applicants from any discipline with a strong interest in this subject area.
Contact: cvac@durham.ac.uk
Website: Durham Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships in Visual Culture
A wide choice of research topics including polymers, gels, surfactants, colloids and biomaterials is offered by the SOFI Doctoral Training Centre, which provides Industrially-integrated, funded postgraduate training for future leaders in the soft matter sector.
This Centre is supported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
Contact: sofi.cdt@durham.ac.uk
Website: Soft Matter for Formulation and Industrial Innovation (SOFI2)
Our CDT in Molecular Sciences for Medicine (MoSMed) is an EPSRC funded joint venture between Newcastle University and Durham University.
We deliver a comprehensive research and training programme focussed on science at the interface of molecular and medical sciences, business skills, and innovation and entrepreneurship.
Our CDT also benefits from partnerships, which include small local biotech companies, large pharmaceutical companies and societal stakeholders.
The MoSMed four year fully-funded PhD programme runs as a single research programme across both Newcastle and Durham Universities to form an extended campus.
Therefore students benefit from the complementary research expertise of both institutions in an innovative training environment.
Contact: CDT Manager (Durham) Emma Worden
Website: Molecular Sciences for Medicine CDT
Named after the ancient ocean that once separated England and Scotland, the IAPETUS Doctoral Training Partnership provides funded PhD scholarships for the next generation of environmental and Earth scientists.
Research programmes address the most critical issues affecting our planet.
This Centre is supported by the Natural Environment Research Council.
Contact: contact.
iapetus@durham.ac.uk
Website: Environmental and Earth Sciences
Excellent facilities support funded postgraduate training in the arts and humanities, in the Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership, established by Durham University and partners including The Sage Gateshead, Durham Cathedral and Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art.
This Centre is supported by the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
Contact: northernbridge.admin@durham.ac.uk
Website: Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership
A centre of excellence for postgraduate social science scholarship, the ESRC NINE DTP (Northern Ireland and North East Doctoral Training Partnership) works with employers to ensure that doctoral training and research provides students with opportunities to apply their knowledge and skills in real world settings.
This Partnership is supported by the Economic and Social Research Council.
Contact: contact.nine@durham.ac.uk
Website: NINE DTP
Full-time Doctoral Research Studentship applications for UK-HOME candidates from racially minoritised ethnic backgrounds.
Four PhD studentships are on offer under the Office for Students: Postgraduate Research Opportunities for the Northeast/Network for Equity (pro:NE).
Contact: sciencefaculty.office@durham.ac.uk
Website: Pro:NE Studentships
The University has three Doctoral Training Centres in Energy.
Putting environmental science at the heart of responsible management of the planet’s resources is a key aim of the Centre, which provides postgraduate training to the next generation of geoscientifics and environmental researchers in collaboration with the energy industry.
Contact at the NERC Centre for Oil and Gas: april.furnal@durham.ac.uk (Dept of Earth Sciences)
Website: NERC CDT
The EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in the Science and Technology of Fusion Energy provides postgraduate training in related disciplines and access to fusion energy facilities across the UK (a magnetically confined plasma is pictured).
The Centre is a partnership of EPSRC, leading universities, research institutes and industries, and is partly supported by the UK Atomic Energy Authority For further details see
Contact at Fusion CDT: Professor Ray Sharples
Website: Fusion CDT
The University and industrial partners established the Multidisciplinary Centre for Doctoral Training in Energy with funding from EPSRC.
The Centre is now supported by the University and trains researchers to understand energy in its broadest context, from engineering to social aspects focusing on the implementation of renewable energy technologies in society .
This is crucial for future energy professionals in meeting the energy challenge.
For further details see
Contact at the Centre for Doctoral Training in Energy: Dr Stuart Jones, CDT Director
Website: Centre for Doctoral Training in Energy
Aura is a collaboration between major companies in the offshore wind industry, leading academic institutions and government and non-governmental organisations.
It aims to act as a catalyst for collaboration and innovation to support the sector’s growth.
Durham’s involvement in the Aura CDT goes beyond the Engineering Department including researchers from the Earth Sciences & Geography Departments, led by Dr Will Coombs .
The University will lead 15 PhD projects through the CDT and more than 20 academics from the University are engaged in developing projects and forming supervisory teams to lead the PhD studies.
Renewable Energy Northeast Universities (ReNU) is an EPSRC-funded Centre for Doctoral Training that incorporates Durham, Newcastle and Northumbria Universities and focuses on the materials innovations that will enable our net zero future.
Our CDT benefits from a comprehensive training programme that runs alongside and supports research, including modules on renewable energy fundamentals, researcher skills, and whole energy systems to name a few.
A key element of the training is giving you the broader skills outside your subject area that needed to succeed in industry, including a Mini-MBA and innovation training.
As a ReNU student you will become a member of a community of researchers who are undergoing the same process of becoming independent leaders in your field, giving you a supportive and invigorating environment in which you take your next career step.
Contact: Chris Groves, Institution Director Durham
Website: Renewable Energy Nor theast Universities
An exceptional programme of research training in the biosciences, involving the use of cutting edge technologies, is offered by the University and its partners in the Newcastle-Liverpool-Durham BBSRC Doctoral Training Partnership.
Support is provided by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council.
Contact: biosci.pgadmissions@durham.ac.uk
Website: Biosciences
A long tradition of research at the University underpins the Durham Doctoral Training Centre in Islamic Finance, which offers postgraduate training to equip people with the necessary knowledge and skills to succeed in this dynamic and expanding sector.
Contact: if.dtc@durham.ac.uk
Website : Islamic Finance
The Arctic Research Centre for Training and Interdisciplinary Collaboration (Durham ARCTIC) is funded by a grant from the Leverhulme Trust that is supporting 15 doctoral students at Durham University, with cohorts entering in 2018, 2019, and 2020.
DurhamARCTIC students are admitted into any doctoral programme, in any of the University's three faculties: Arts & Humanities, Science, and Social Sciences & Health to pursue a research project that contributes to and benefits from a blend of disciplinary expertise and interdisciplinary enquiry.
Contact: durham.arctic@durham.ac.uk
Website: Durham ARCTIC

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/taught-degrees/your-choices:
Are you considering your options after completing your undergraduate studies?
Why not boost your career opportunities with a Durham postgraduate degree?
You might want to begin by exploring the postgraduate opportunities on offer in your current department, perhaps allowing you to delve deeper into an undergraduate dissertation topic or final year project.
Remember that your undergraduate degree will qualify you to study a wide range of postgraduate programmes.
Exploring other exciting subject areas can lead to great careers, and allow you to apply your existing skills and knowledge in new and interesting ways.
Interested?
Click on your current subject area below to explore your options.
Your future awaits!
Discover Durham Tours are a great way to explore the University and City
Select your undergraduate subject area to discover the postgraduate options available to you.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/scholarships/postgraduate:
We are committed to supporting the best students irrespective of financial circumstances.
The following scholarships and bursaries are either funded by the University, through partnerships with external organisations or through generous donations from alumni and friends of the University.
The scholarships, awards and bursaries below are dedicated to supporting students from countries around the world.
Other options for funding your studies may also be available.
Key:
Postgraduate Taught Programmes (PGT) Postgraduate Research Programmes (PGR)
Please ensure that you submit an academic application to Durham University by the deadline date of the scholarship you are applying for.
7 October 2025
12.00 GMT
Applicants who are a citizen of or have been granted refugee status of an eligible Commonwealth country.
Applicants who are registered for a PhD at a university in an eligible Commonwealth country.
Durham Palestine Educational Trust
(PGT)
5.00 p.m.
GM
Payment of tuition fees along with a stipend at UKRI matched rates - 2024 entry rate £19,237.
RTSG for programme duration £5,000

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/scholarships/college-and-department:
College Scholarships
When applying for a college scholarship you have the opportunity to also be considered for scholarships at the other participating colleges.
By ticking the box on the form your application will be reviewed by each college, so you won't need to submit separate scholarship applications to each one.
If you are successfully awarded a scholarship, you will have the opportunity to accept both the scholarship and a place at the college offering it.
If your preliminary allocated college is different to the college you have been awarded a scholarship at, your awarding college will arrange to have your preliminary allocated college changed so you can take up your scholarship.
Masters Achievement Awards
Tuition fee discount (awards vary per programme)
MBA Scholarships (Full Time and Online MBA)
DBA Scholarships
(Durham DBA and Global DBA)
Scholarship amounts are discretionary based on the application (awards vary per programme)
Choral Scholarships are offered by the Chapter of Durham Cathedral
Approximately £4021.03 per academic year, plus additional.
Catholic Theology/Catholic Studies Scholarships
The Faithful Companions of Jesus Bicentenary Scholarship Fund, The Catherine McAuley Postgraduate Scholarship Fund and The Jesuits in Britain Durham Rutilio Grande MA Bursary.
For students applying to MA in Christian Theology (Catholic Studies) (V8K607) or
MA by Research, M.Litt, DThM 1 , Integrated PhD 2 , PhD
Each with a clear focus in Catholic Studies / Catholic Theology.
The Jeremy Vine Scholarship in English Literature
£4,000 per academic year
Low household income, UK applicants reading a degree in the Department of English Studies
Ralph Whitell Waggett Bursary
The Ralph Waggett MA Studentship in History.
Students who self-identify as belonging to a Black or Asian ethnic group, as of mixed heritage, or otherwise as of a BAME background.
Thebes History Scholarship
Cash bursary for students from low-income households, who demonstrate exceptional potential.
Students studying  History at undergraduate level.
Next academic entry 2025/26.
Helen Sharp Undergraduate Scholarship for Modern Languages
A scholarship for students from a low income background.
Students studying Modern Languages and Cultures at undergraduate level.
To be confirmed.
Guy Beresford PGT Scholarship
£15,000 for a student to study full-time for a STEM taught masters degree at Durham University, for the year 2025-26
Postgraduate students from the North East with a low-income background
Department of Biosciences (Undergraduate funding)
Paid undergraduate summer studentships to help students gain experience and skills in Biology.
Undergraduate students wishing to gain valuable, hands-on research experience.
AMI Scholarships for Women in Technology
The Anne-Marie Imafidon Scholarships for Women in Technology.
Female prospective students applying to Computer Science (either the BSc or MEng degrees) Also considered computer science as part of a Degree in Natural Sciences.
Department of Computer Science (Postgraduate funding)
Postgraduate research opportunities.
Students applying to Master of Science (MSc) by Research and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).
Department of Mathematical Sciences (Postgraduate funding)
In partnership with Scott Logic and Trevelyan College , the Department of Mathematical Sciences is offering a Global Masters scholarship to a student from a low or middle-income.
country.
Students from a low income country who wish to study Masters in Mathematical Sciences , or a Masters in Particles, Strings and Cosmology.
Department of Physics (Postgraduate funding)
Five tailored research projects: Advanced Instrumentation (CfAI), Astronomy (CEA/ICC), Condensed Matter Physics (CMP), Elementary Particle Theory (IPPP) and Quantum, Light and Matter (QLM).
Physics students wishing to apply for PhD (3, 3.5 or 4-year duration, full time) or MSc by Research (1 year, full time).
Department of Psychology (Postgraduate funding)
A range of studentships and research degree funding.
PhD students in psychology.
Durham Law School (Undergraduate funding)
A range of undergraduate awards and bursaries, including Hogan Lovells Scholarships.
Undergraduate students of LLB Law or Law with Foundation LLB who want to practice commercial law.
First generation in their immediate family to attend university after attending a state school.
Durham Law School (Postgraduate funding)
A wide range of scholarships, bursaries and studentships.
Postgraduate research, postgraduate taught and post-doctoral students studying law.
The St Hild's Scholarship
The fund is intended to ensure the tradition of offering education to those for whom financial support will be transformative.
Undergraduate students from the North-East with a household income below £47,200 per year.
Sports Road Scholarship
For students from low-income backgrounds with a strong track record of sporting achievement, and the potential to contribute significantly to college sport, and/or at a University level.
First-year undergraduates joining Collingwood College.
Grey College Trust
The Grey College Trust provides a range of funding opportunities including Entrance Awards and college undergraduate bursaries
Applicants commencing at Grey College in 2025
Chadwick Scholarship
The Hatfield Trust awards a range of scholarships to support students from lower-income households.
A Hatfield College undergraduate student of exceptional potential and genuine financial need.
Preference may be given to a student intending to study Engineering.
St Chad’s College Scholarships
St Chad’s students from less affluent economic backgrounds and under-represented communities.
A diverse range of scholarships for undergraduate and continuing postgraduate students at St Chad's College.
Trusts and Scholarships
A diverse range of scholarships which support academic talent and ambition, enable personal development and meet the needs of the local community.
St Hild and St Bede College undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Margaret Bloomfield Scholarships
Undergraduate applicants with a household income of £47,200 or less who select St Mary’s as their first choice
Global Masters Scholarship
In partnership with Scott Logic and  the Department of Mathematical Sciences, Trevelyan College is offering a Global Masters scholarship to a student from a low or middle-income.
Trevelyan College students from a low income country who wish to study Masters in Mathematical Sciences , or a Masters in Particles, Strings and Cosmology.
Oakley Scholarship
Established for undergraduate students in need of financial support, throughout their programme for three years of study.
St Mary's College undergraduate home students with a household income below £42,875 and educated at a state-maintained school or education provider.
Lothbury Scholarship
The Lothbury Scholarship is sponsored by Lothbury Investment Management Limited and the Lothbury Property Trust.
Ustinov College postgraduate students from the North East of England who have been resident for a minimum of 12 months prior to application.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/cost-living-hub:
This page links to information about the financial support available to our students.
Find out more about the wider support services available across the University.
We offer a range of advisory and support services across the University, incorporating College-based and central resources.
Many students work in paid part-time employment whilst they study - as well as earning extra money this can help you build up valuable skills and experience.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/global-durham/global-opportunities/incoming-opportunities:
Lecturers are world-leaders in their fields and students benefit from cutting edge facilities.
Durham is one of the UK's most historic universities, and its unique collegiate system creates a strong sense of belonging.
The University provides outstanding opportunities that help to enrich student life and an amazing academic experience.
The University's key data sheet for partner universities can be accessed here: Durham University Key Data Sheet .
We also have a quick links flyer here: Incoming Quick Links Flyer
International student Soumya tells us what life is like at Durham University.
This film was made by Hotcourses.
At Durham you'll study with students from around the UK and more than 150 countries worldwide.
Whatever your background, we want you to be at home here.
On top of support staff in each College, through central Student Support and Wellbeing services we offer support including: Disability Support ; Faith Support ; Equality, Diversity and Inclusion ; Counselling ; and the Student Wellbeing Programme .
On top of that, you'll have access to entertainment, events and support services within Durham and the surrounding area.
Of course, the dedicated Global Opportunities Team in the International Office is there to assist too!
Find out about our exchange programmes
Run by Durham students, on behalf of the University, thedurhamstudent is there to show you what life is really like at Durham!
Further, esn_durham is the Erasmus & Exchange Students society which is run by students to support all incoming exchange students studying / preparing to study at Durham.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/global-durham/global-opportunities/incoming-opportunities/non-european-incoming-exchange:
Durham is currently linked with non-European partner universities in Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, China/Hong Kong, Colombia, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and USA.
A list can be found below.
We are constantly expanding our network of partners.
Students from European partners should apply through the European Incoming Exchange Programme .
Should your university not have an exchange agreement, you are welcome to apply through the Fee-Paying Study Abroad Programme .
A year at Durham is a year like no other.
Here you will not be a tourist, you get an amazing British experience and be part of something special.
You will be:
Colleges provide a social, domestic and pastoral focus and help individuals flourish through mentoring and involvement with college life, sports & societies and community engagement.
Students from non-European partners coming for the full  academic year are guaranteed in-College accommodation.
China (Mainland)
Japan
Korea
Malaysia
Singapore
Taiwan
Thailand
Australia
New Zealand
There are more than 250+ European agreements, many of which are specific to students from individual departments.
For this reason, please visit the European Exchanges page for further details.
Canada
US

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/global-durham/global-opportunities/incoming-opportunities/fee-paying-incoming-study-abroad:
Here you will not be a tourist, you get an amazing British experience and will be part of something special.
Our Colleges provide a social, domestic and pastoral focus for students and help individuals flourish through mentoring and involvement with college life, sports and societies and community engagement.
Fee-paying students are guaranteed college accommodation for a unique Durham experience.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/studying-in-the-uk/agents-and-representatives:
If you choose to use one of our official representatives, please note the following:
*With the exception of the United States or representatives working with students receiving US federal loans
Click here to find which agents we work with around the world.
Our commitment to AQF and how to raise a complaint.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/visit-us/open-days/international-campus-visits:
Pre-bookable International campus visits are available to students visiting from outside the UK on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday afternoons most weeks of the year.
Visits start with a presentation from a member of University staff usually from 2pm - 3pm (UK time), followed by a guided campus tour starting promptly at 3pm.
Guided tours of the university are normally conducted by a Student Ambassador.
This is your opportunity to get a feel for life on campus and the Durham student experience.
If you have questions regarding admission, entry requirements, or applying to Durham, please get in touch with the Regional Manager or International Officer for your region.
Please complete the form below to book a campus visit.
Booking is essential and should be made at least 7 days prior to the visit taking place.
Visit requests on short notice or outside the below booking slots are subject to availability and can not be guaranteed.
Guided tours cannot be guaranteed in August, September and December due to student ambassador availability.
If you would prefer a guided tour during these months, please contact us and we will get in touch with you regarding possible arrangements.
Alternatively, you are welcome to visit the University and undertake a self-guided tour.
We are unable to arrange departmental or college visits.
You can however, contact our Departments or Colleges directly.
If you are an MBA Student, you can arrange an on-campus meeting directly with the Business School here: Durham MBA request a campus visit in Durham | Durham University
If you have any questions, please get in touch with us at international.ambassadors@durham.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/regional-pages:
We have a dedicated team on hand ready to assist you in applying to Durham University.
Please select your region to find out what the specific entry requirement equivalencies are for your country, as well as other useful information including how to get in touch with your regional representatives
Africa & Middle East
Latin America & Caribbean
Mainland China
East Asia & Australasia
Central & South Asia
South East Asia

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/regional-pages/africa--middle-east-:
Durham University is a globally outstanding centre of teaching and research excellence, with over one third of our students coming from an international background.
We're offering a range of new International Scholarships to students from Bangladesh, India, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan and Vietnam.
The scholarships consist of a £5,000 per year tuition fee discount for most of our undergraduate and taught postgraduate programmes starting in 2025.
We understand that it can be challenging knowing where to start when applying to an overseas University.
At Durham there is a wide range of support available to students who live in Middle East & Africa and are considering applying to Durham.
We have a dedicated team who are on hand to answer any questions you have.
The Africa and Middle East student recruitment team are there to help with any aspect of the application process.
They would be happy to hear from you to assist with any questions you have.
We invite all prospective students and current applicants at all levels of study to join us and find out more about courses, entry requirements, scholarships, and student life at Durham University.
All timings displayed are local to the location.
Organiser & Registration link
Anytime between 5-7pm
Hotel lobby – Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja
5pm-8:30pm
We currently have no upcoming online events.
Please check back soon.
You can book one of our personalised Campus Visits to find out more about our academic degree programmes and student life on campus.
Visits start with a presentation from a member of staff from the International Office, followed by a guided tour from one of our student ambassadors.
For any other queries, contact the Africa team at africa.team@durham.ac.uk
Undergraduate
The Baccalauréat de l'Enseignement Secondaire (School Certificate) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
We require students to complete an alternative qualification or a foundation programme for direct entry (please visit our Durham University International Study Centre website for more information).
Postgraduate
Students holding the following qualifications can be considered for entry to Postgraduate Taught programmes:
The Angolan High School Certificate (Ensino Geral Certificado de Habilitações) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Please contact the team at: Africa.Team@durham.ac.uk
The Benin High School Certificate qualification is not suitable for direct entry into first year of an undergraduate degree.
The Cambridge Overseas School Certificate and Botswana General Certificate of Education (BGCSE) Certificate qualification are not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Burkina Faso Secondary School Certificate is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Burundian Diplôme d’État and Diplôme d’Humanités Générales high school qualifications are not suitable for direct entry into first year of an undergraduate degree.
We accept the following qualifications for direct entry to Undergraduate courses:
Qualification Accepted:
A Level
Cameroon GCE A-levels
A*A*A
17
A*AA
16
AAA
15
AAB
14
ABB
13
A-level single grade equivalencies:
A Level Grade
Equivalent Cameroon GCE Advanced Level Grade
A*
A at Advanced Level
A
B
B at Advanced Level
GCSE single grade equivalencies:
GCSE subject requirement
Equivalent qualification Cameroon GCE Ordinary Level
A* or A
A at Ordinary Level
B at Ordinary Level
C
C at Ordinary Level
The Certificado de Habiltações Literárias 3°Ciclo is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Students holding the following qualification can be considered for entry to Postgraduate Taught programmes:
The Côte d'Ivoire Baccalauréat (School Certificate) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into the first year of an undergraduate degree.
The DRC high school certificate qualifications such the Diplôme d'État d'Études Secondaires du Cycle Long are not suitable for direct entry into first year of an undergraduate degree.
The Egyptian Al-Thanawaya Al-Amah (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) is not suitable for direct entry into first year of an undergraduate degree.
Note : Bachelor’s degrees from a Higher Institute will not be accepted.
The Eritrean Secondary Education Certificate Examination fis not suitable for direct entry into year  one of an undergraduate degree.
Note : A bachelor’s degree from Eritrea is not sufficient for entry to postgraduate programmes.
The Eswatini General Certificate of Secondary Education qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Note : A bachelor’s degree from Eswatini is not sufficient for entry to postgraduate programmes.
The Ethiopian Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examination qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Applicants who have completed two years of a bachelor’s degree from an Ethiopian university in a relevant subject can be considered for entrance to undergraduate programmes.
Qualifications accepted:
Two years of a bachelor’s degree from Ethiopian university
‘A’ grade or 4.0/4.0 GPA
Note : A bachelor’s degree from Ethiopia is not sufficient for entry to postgraduate programmes.
The Gambian School Certificate qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Applicants who have successfully completed the first year of a Gambian university bachelor’s degree can be considered for admission to the first year of our bachelor’s degree programmes.
Year one of bachelor’s degree from a Gambian University
90% average
80%
70%
65%
60%
Note : A bachelor’s degree from The University of the Gambia is not sufficient for entry to postgraduate programmes.
The Ghanian Senior School Certificate or the West African Senior School Certificate qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The high school qualification from Lesotho is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Liberian Senior High School Certificate Examination qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Note : A bachelor’s degree from Liberia is not sufficient for entry to postgraduate programmes.
The Libyan Secondary Education Certificate qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Madagascar high school certificate qualifications such the Diplôme de Bachelier de l’Enseignement Secondaire qualificationa are not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Malawi School Certificate of Education qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Note : A bachelor’s degree from Malawi is not sufficient for entry to postgraduate programmes.
The Brevet d'Aptitude Professionnelle from Mauritius qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Diplôme du Baccalauréat / Diplôme du Baccalauréat Technique (School Certificate) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Mozambique General Secondary Education Certificate qualification (Certificado de Habilitções Literarias) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Namibia Senior Secondary Certificate (NSSC) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Senior School Certificate (SSCE/WAEC/ NECO) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Advanced General Certificate of Secondary Education qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Diplôme de Bachelier de l'Enseignement due Second Degré / Baccaluareat de l'Enseignement Secondaire qualification qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The West African Senior School Certificate Examinations (SSCE/WAEC/ NECO) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Applicants who have successfully completed the first year of a bachelor’s degree in Sierra Leone will be considered for admission to the first year of our bachelor’s degree course.
Bachelor’s Degree (1st year grade)
Over 90%
The Somalian High School Certificate qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Please note that the Lawriyada/Shahaadada BA and BSc are not sufficient and may not be used for entry to a master’s degree
The National Senior Certificate (NSC) can be accepted for entry to year one of undergraduate programmes:
National Senior School Certificate (including delivered by the IEB boards)
77777
77776
77766
77666
76666
A-Level Grade
NSC
7
6
Percentage equivalent
80-100%
70-79%
Subject specific equivalencies
Matriculation programme
Exam Grade
A Level Biology
NSC Biology
A Level Chemistry
NSC Physical Sciences
A Level English
NSC English
A Level History
NSC History
A Level Mathematics
Core Mathematics
A Level Music
NSC Music
A Level Physics
GCSE Mathematics
Mathematics Literacy
Note: Life Orientation is not accepted as an A-Level equivalent.
The Certificate of Secondary Education (CSE) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Sudanese Secondary School Certificate is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Tanzanian Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education Examination (ACSEE) exams can be considered for direct entry onto our undergraduate courses.
Award of the Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education Examination (ACSEE) with the following grades in principal level subjects will be considered:
Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education (ACSE)
The Togolese Baccalauréat qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
The Tunisian High School curriculum (Diplôme de Baccalauréat) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
We accept one of the below:
The Zambian High School Certificate qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
Note : A bachelor’s degree from Zambia is not sufficient for entry to postgraduate programmes.
We accept applicants with Zimbabwe General Certificate of Education at Advanced Level (ZIMSEC A-Levels) for direct entry into undergraduate programmes.
Qualiication accepted :
ZIMSEC A-level
ZIMSEC A-level Certificate with AAA
ZIMSEC A-level Certificate with AAB
ZIMSEC A-level Certificate with ABB
The Certificate of Preparatory Education or Sixth Form Baccalaureat are not suitable for direct entry.
We require students to complete an alternative qualification or a foundation programme for direct entry.
A master’s degree from a recognised university with 75% or better.
Matriculation Certificate (Bagrut)
Overall score of 85% and three level 5 subjects with scores of 75% each
The Al-Thanawayaa or Tawjihyah are not suitable for direct entry.
We require students to complete an alternative qualification or a foundation programme for direct entry, please visit our Durham University International Study Centre website for more information.
A Bachelors degree with a GPA of 2.75/4 or higher.
The Lebanese Baccalaureate or Baccalauréat Général are not suitable for direct entry.
A Bachelor degree, Diplôme d'Etudes Supérieures / Attestation d'Etudes Approfondies, or Maîtrise with at 16/20 or 80%/B average or a GPA of 3.2 or higher.
A Bachelors degree with a 2:1 or GPA of 3.2 or better.
The General Secondary Education Certificate (Tawjihyah) qualification is not suitable for direct entry into year one of an undergraduate degree.
A 4-year Bachelors degree with a GPA of 3.2 or higher.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/regional-pages/central--south-asia-:
At Durham there is a wide range of support available to students who live in Central & South Asia and are considering applying to Durham.
The Central & South Asia student recruitment team are there to help with any aspect of the application process.
Meet the team at a recruitment event near you or online and find out more about Durham.
All timings displayed are local to the event location.
If you have any questions about our events, please contact us at: India.team@durham.ac.uk
A Bachelor degree with a grade range from 60% - 70% or GPA 3.1 - 3.8 depending on the awarding institution on the International Office's list.
Standard XII
Note: Standard XII from CBSE or CISCE Boards and some State Boards only are accepted for entry.
State Boards considered on a case by case basis.
A 3, 4 or 5-year Bachelors degree from an approved Indian university with a score of 60%-70% depending on the institution.
The Attestat o Srednem Obrazovami (Certificate of Secondary Education) is not suitable for direct entry without additional qualifications.
The below qualifications can be accepted for direct entry:
A Bakalavr from a recognised Kazakh institution with a minimum GPA of 3.4/4.0, 4.3/5.0 or 85%.
The Higher Secondary Certificate is not suitable for direct entry.
We require students to complete an alternative qualification or a foundation programme for direct entry, please visit our Durham University International Study Centre website for more information).
A 4-year undergraduate degree in a relevant subject from a recognised Pakistani university.
Grade requirements will range from CGPA 2.7-3.5, depending on the institution.
Students who have a 2 or 3-year Bachelors degree with a first division pass must also have a 2-year master's degree in a relevant subject with a first division pass (65%+) from an HEC recognised institution.
The Certificate of Secondary Education (Maw 6) is not suitable for direct entry.
Students with Bachelor's Special degree or Professional degree with grades of 70% (1st Class honours) from a recognised university will be considered for entry to taught Masters programmes at Durham University.
For information about Entry requirements, please visit Turkey Entry Requirements

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/regional-pages/mainland-china-:
At Durham there is a wide range of support available to students who live in China and are considering applying to Durham.
The China student recruitment team are there to help with any aspect of the application process.
We currently have no events scheduled.
If you have any questions about our events, please contact us at: China.Team@Durham.ac.uk
Gaokao (National College Entrance Examination) is accepted for direct entry applications - including with minimum 80% overall average, 80% in Mathematics if required at A Level, plus IELTS at departmental level.
Applications from students who pass year one of bachelor’s degree from a recognised university in a relevant subject with an overall grade of 85% will be considered for direct entry.
Ambright Aptitude Scholastic Tests (AST) is accepted for direct entry applications of programmes including Biosciences, Chemistry, Computer Science, Earth Sciences, Education, Engineering, Mathematical Sciences, Physics, Psychology, Criminology, Sociology, Anthropology, Geography, Philosophy, Sport and exercise science, Classics, and Visual arts and film.
We will consider applications from students who achieved 220 in English and Mathematics and 230 in Physics (if taken) and Huikao or National Senior High School Certificate (from Provinces where the Huikao is not offered) with a grade average of above 80% (A, Excellent) - including 85% in relevant subjects where required at A level, plus IELTS at departmental level.
A four-year bachelor’s degree from a recognised university.
You will normally need to have a score of 80% or above.
Each programme may have a different requirement to the subject applicants are from, please see our programme pages for specific course requirements.
If you are a prospective student from China who does not meet the admission requirements, you can apply for a pathway programme at the Durham University International Study Centre .
Upon successful completion, you can progress to degree-level study.
Prospective Chinese students can also visit the Durham University International Study Centre Chinese site for more information.
You can connect with us on Weibo and WeChat or check out our Chinese student community blogs.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/regional-pages/east-asia-and-australasia:
At Durham there is a wide range of support available to students who live in East Asia and Australasia and are considering applying to Durham.
The East Asia and Australasia student recruitment team are there to help with any aspect of the application process.
Completed High School Leaving Certificate plus an ATAR of 92
Completed High School Leaving Certificate plus an ATAR of 90
Completed High School Leaving Certificate plus an ATAR of 88
Relevant subjects required at A-level Grade A should be listed on transcripts with the below minimum grade requirements:
State/Territory
Subject Specific Grades
Australian Capital Territory
New South Wales
75% or above
Northern Territory
17/20 or A
Queensland
South Australia
Tasmania
16/20
Victoria
40/50
Western Australia
A Bachelor’s Degree (minimum 3 years) or Bachelor Honours degree (4 years) with a Distinction (75-84%) from an Australian institution.
Notes: Where Maths A-Level is required level 3 subjects should include Maths and Statistics
A Bachelors (Honours) degree with a B / 70-79% / 6 or better on the 9 point scale.
HKDSE
5* 5* 5 in three subjects from any combination of Group A Electives, Core Mathematics, and Core English Language.
5* 5 5 in three subjects from any combination of Group A Electives, Core Mathematics, and Core English Language.
5 5 5 in three subjects from any combination of Group A Electives, Core Mathematics, and Core English Language.
5 5 4 in three subjects from any combination of Group A Electives, Core Mathematics, and Core English Language.
5 4 4 in three subjects from any combination of Group A Electives, Core Mathematics, and Core English Language.
For subjects requiring a Maths A level.
5* 5* 5* 5 from two Group A Electives plus Core Mathematics and Extended Maths (M1 or M2)
OR
5* 5* 5* 5 one Group A Elective plus Core English Language plus Core Mathematics and Extended Maths (M1 or M2)
5* 5* 5 5 from two Group A Electives plus Core Mathematics and Extended Maths (M1 or M2)
5* 5* 5 5 one Group A Elective plus Core English Language plus Core Mathematics and Extended Maths (M1 or M2)
5 5 5 5 from two Group A Electives plus Core Mathematics and Extended Maths (M1 or M2)
5 5 5 5 one Group A Elective plus Core English Language plus Core Mathematics and Extended Maths (M1 or M2)
5 5 5 4 from two Group A Electives plus Core Mathematics and Extended Maths (M1 or M2)
5 5 5 4 one Group A Elective plus Core English Language plus Core Mathematics and Extended Maths (M1 or M2)
Not Applicable
A Bachelor’s (Honours) degree with a 2:1 or a GPA of 3.0 out of 4.0 or equivalent depending on the grading system.
Note: The Kotogakko Sotsugyo Shomeisho is not suitable for direct entry.
A Bachelor’s degree ( Gakushi, 4-6 years) with an overall grade of B or a minimum GPA of 3.0/4.0.
Ensino Secundario Complementor
Ensino Secundário Complementar at GPA 3.2/4 or grade of 19.
Ensino Secundário Complementar at GPA 3.2/4 or grade of 18.
A Bachelor’s degree from an accredited University in Macau with a GPA of 3.2 or above.
Note: The High School Diploma is not suitable for direct entry.
A Bachelor’s degree (Haksa) from an accredited South Korean University with a minimum GPA of 3.3 out of 4.3 or 3.5 out of 4.5
Note: The Senior High School Leaving Certificate is not suitable for direct entry.
A Bachelor’s Degree from an accredited Taiwanese University with a minimum grade of 75% or a GPA of 3.0/4.0.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/regional-pages/europe-:
At Durham there is a wide range of support available to students who live in Europe  and are considering applying to Durham.
The Europe student recruitment team are there to help with any aspect of the application process.
All timings are local to the event location.
Ruta Vaiciute
International Officer (Europe, Gulf & UKI)
We currently have no upcoming events.
Neither the Albanian Dëftesë Pjekurie (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) nor the Diplomë e Maturës Shtetërore (Diploma of State Matura) are currently accepted for direct entry to any of our bachelor degree programmes.
Candidates should take a foundation course , or other suitable programme such as A-levels.
Diplomë e Nivelit të Pare / Bachelor (First Level (University) Diploma / Bachelor's degree) with an overall mark of 9/10 or above;
Master Shkencave (master of science) or the kandidat i shkencave with an overall mark of 9/10 or above;
Please note the Diplomë Universitare alone is not sufficient preparation for postgraduate study at Durham University.
The Bátxelor is accepted with a minimum grade of 8.5/10.
The Armenian Certificate of Secondary General Education alone is not accepted for undergraduate direct entry to any of our bachelor degree programmes.
Araratian Baccalaureate
Two years at an Armenian University
A*A*A in extended level subjects
An average of 80% or a GPA of 3.3/4.0
A*AA in extended level subjects
AAA in extended level subjects
AAB in extended level subjects
ABB in extended level subjects
Bachelor’s degree (Diplom bakalari astichan) awarded after 2004, a Specialist Diploma (Diplom masnageti) or Master’s degree (Diplom magistrosi astichan) from an accredited University with an average GPA of at least 3.3/4, 4.5/5, or 80% depending on grading system.
Reifeprüfung / Matura (Allgemeinbildende Hoehere Schule)
Pass with high distinction (Mit ausgezeichnetem Erfolg bestanden) with the majority of subjects at grade 1 (sehr gut).
Pass with distinction (mit gutem erfolg bestanden) with the majority of subjects at least grade 2.
BBB
Bachelor’s degree (three years) with a minimum 2.4 out of 5 from an accredited university (all accredited institutions accepted as per Ecctis).
Some institutions may not always offer a numbered grading scale however most should.
The Атэстат аб агульнай сярэдняй адукацыi (Certificate of General Secondary Education) is not accepted for undergraduate direct entry to any of our bachelor degree programmes.
A Specialist Diploma or Master’s Diploma with a score of 8.5/10 or 4.25/5 with a minimum of 5 years of study completed from an accepted institution.
Qualifications accepted: Certificat d'Enseignment Secondaire Supérieur; Diploma van Secundair Onderwijs; Abschlusszeugnis der Oberstufe des Sekundarunterrichts
Diploma van Secundair Onderwijs/Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Supérieur/Abschlusszeugnis der Oberstufe des Sekundarunterrichts
8.5/10 or 17/20 or 85% overall with a minimum of 9/10 or 18/20 or 90% in required subjects
8/10 or 16/20 or 80% overall with a minimum of 8/10 or 16/20 or 80% in required subjects
7.5/10 or 15/20 or 75% overall with a minimum of 8/10 or 16/20 or 80% in required subjects
Subject specific equivalencies (where possible)
Licentiaat/ Licencié with a final classification of Satisfaction/Op voldoende wijze/Geslaagd and overall average mark of at least 70% or 14/20.
Bachelor’s degree (from 2004) with a final classification of Satisfaction/Op voldoende wijze/Geslaagd and an overall average mark of at least 70% or 14/20.
Diploma o položenom maturskom ispitu (RS) / Diploma o završenoj srednjoj školi (FiBH) (Secondary School Leaving Diploma)
4.8 overall with 5 in required subjects
4.6 overall with 5 in required subjects
4.4 overall with 4.5 in required subjects
4.2 overall with 4.5 in required subjects
4.0 overall with 4.0 in required subjects
Diploma Visokog Obrazovanja/ Diplomirani (Advanced Diploma of Higher Education/ Bachelor degree) in an appropriate subject with a score of 9/10, 4.5/5 or grade B from an accepted institution.
Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie (Diploma of Completed Secondary Education)
Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie
Award of the Diploma with 5.8 overall from all subjects, to include 5.8 from the 3 state examinations, with 5.85 in required subjects
Award of the Diploma with 5.7 overall from all subjects, to include 5.7 from the 3 state examinations, with 5.85 in required subjects
Award of the Diploma with 5.6 overall from all subjects, to include 5.6 from the 3 state examinations, with 5.75 in required subjects
Award of the Diploma with 5.5 overall from all subjects, to include 5.5 from the 3 state examinations, with 5.75 in required subjects
Award of the Diploma with 5.4 overall from all subjects, to include 5.4 from the 3 state examinations, with 5.65 in required subjects
Бакалавър (Bachelor degree) / Професионален бакалавър (Professional Bachelor degree) with a minimum overall grade of 5/6
All accredited institutions are accepted as per Ecctis
A master's degree with a minimum of 5 or better (awarded after 2001) in addition to a bachelor's at the above grading scales
Svjedodžba o Maturi (Certificate of Maturity) in conjunction with the Drzavna Matura
5 overall in the Svjedodžba, with at least 5 at Higher Level in required subjects in the Drzavna Matura.
At least three exams must be taken at Higher Level and a minimum grade of 4 should be achieved in any additional subjects.
4.9 overall in the Svjedodžba, with at least 5 at Higher Level in required subjects in the Drzavna Matura.
4.8 overall in the Svjedodžba, with at least 4.75 at Higher Level in required subjects in the Drzavna Matura.
4.7 overall in the Svjedodžba, with at least 4.75 at Higher Level in required subjects in the Drzavna Matura.
4.6 overall in the Svjedodžba, with at least 4.75 at Higher Level in required subjects in the Drzavna Matura.
A Diploma Visoko Obrazovanje (Advanced Diploma of Education – when awarded before 2005) of at least four years or Bacclaureus (Bachelor’s – started after 2005) with a minimum grade of 4 (Vrlo Dobar).
Apolytirio Lykeiou
19/20 or 92% in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum grades  A* and A - required subjects should be taken as A-levels
18.5/20 or 90% in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum grades A* and A - required subjects should be taken as A-levels
18.5/20 or 90% in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum A grades - required subjects should be taken as A-levels
18.3/20 or 88% in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum A grades - required subjects should be taken as A-levels
18/20 or 86% in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum grades A and B
GCSE grade: A/7 = 17.5
B/6 = 17
C/4 = 16/5
Ptychio (Bachelor degree) from an approved University with a minimum overall grade of 7.5/10 or GPA of 3.3.
Maturitni Zkouška / Maturita (minimum of four subjects)
1 in three subjects, with 2 or better in all other subjects, with 1 in required subjects.
1 in the majority of subjects, with 2 or better in all other subjects, with 1 in required subjects.
2 or better in all subjects, with 1 in required subjects.
Bakalář (Bachelor degree) issued post 2002 with a minimum of 1.5; B (velmi dobre).
Studentereksamen (STX, HHX or HTX or HF)
an average of 10 overall with 10 in at least four level A subjects, including 12 in required subjects.
an average of 10 overall with 10 in at least three level A subjects, including 12 in required subjects, and at least 8 in another level A subject.
an average of 10 overall with 10 in at least two level A subjects, including 10 in required subjects, and at least 8 in two other level A subjects.
Bachelor degree / Candidatus Philosophiae (3 years) or Diplomingeniør (Engineer) with a minimum grade of 7/12.
Gümnaasiumi lõputunnistus (Secondary School Certificate) including the Rligieksum
Overall score of 5 in the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus with scores of 95%, 95%, 90% in 3 state (Riigeksam) exams and a minimum of 90% in required subjects.
Overall score of 5 in the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus with scores of 95%, 90%, 90% in 3 state (Riigeksam) exams and a minimum of 90% in required subjects.
Overall score of 5 in the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus with scores of with scores of 90%, 90%, 90% in 3 state (Riigeksam) exams and a minimum of 90% in required subjects.
Overall score of 4.5 in the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus with scores of 90%, 90%, 85% in 3 state (Riigeksam) exams
Overall score of 4.5 in the Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus with scores of 90%, 90%, 85% in 3 state (Riigeksam) exams and a minimum of 90% in required subjects.
Bakalaurusekraad with a grade of 4 or 81% or B.
All accredited universities are accepted as per Ecctis.
A levels
Pass with overall result of 85%
Pass with overall result of 80%
Pass with overall result of 75%
Pass with overall result of 70%
Where specific subjects are required:
A* = 9 in the required subject(s)
A = 8.5 in the required subject(s)
B = 8 in the required subject(s)
Ylioppilastutkintodistus / Studentexamensbetyg
Award of Ylioppilastutkintodistus with 7, 7, 6, 6 or L, L, E, E in four subjects with 7 or L in required subjects.
Award of Ylioppilastutkintodistus with 7, 6, 6, 6, or L, E, E, E in four subjects, with 7 or L in required subjects
Award of Ylioppilastutkintodistus with 6, 6, 6, 6 or E, E, E, E in four subjects with 6 or E in required subjects.
Award of Ylioppilastutkintodistus with 6, 6, 6, 5 or E, E, E, M in four subjects with 6 or E in required subjects.
Award of Ylioppilastutkintodistus with 6, 6, 5, 5 or E, E, M, M in four subjects with 6 or E in required subjects.
A* = 7
A = 6
B = 5
Kandidaati/ Kandidat with 2/3 or 3/5.
Postgraduate Research Programmes
Applicants should hold a Maisteri/Magister degree with 2/3 or 3/5 or better in addition to a bachelor's as per the grading scales above
Baccalauréat Général
Option Internationale du Baccalauréat (OIB)/Baccalauréat Français International (BFI)
Overall average score of 17 with 17 in required subjects.
Required subjects should also be studied in your premiére and terminale years as a specialism (specialité)
Overall average score of 16 with 16 in required subjects.
Required subjects should also be studied your premiére and terminale years as a specialism (spécialité).
Overall average score of 15 with 15 in required subjects.
Overall average score of 15 overall with 16 in required subjects.
Overall average score of 14 with 15 in required subjects.
Overall average score of 14 overall with 15 in required subjects.
Overall average score of 13 with 14 in required subjects.
A/7 = 13
B/6 = 12
C/4 = 11
A/7 = 12
B/6 = 11
C/4 = 10
Licence (obtained since 2008)/Maitrise/ Diplôme d'Ingénieur / Architecte Diplômé d'État with 13/20.
The General Education Diploma (Sashualo Ganatlebis Atestasi) is not currently accepted for direct entry to any of our bachelor degree programmes.
Bachelor’s degree ( Bakalavris Khariskhi ) /Specialist Diploma ( Umaghlesi Ganatlebis Diplomi ) when awarded after 4 years or more of study/ Master’s degree ( Magistris Khariskhi ) with an average GPA of at least 4.0/5 or 80%.
Abitur
At least 1.2 overall with minimum 13/15 in required subjects at Higher Level (Leistungkurse)
At least 1.4 overall with minimum 13/15 in required subjects at Higher Level (Leistungkurse)
At least 1.6 overall with minimum 12/15 in required subjects at Higher Level (Leistungkurse)
At least 1.8 overall with minimum 12/15 in required subjects at Higher Level (Leistungkurse)
At least 2.0 overall with minimum 12/15 in required subjects at Higher Level (Leistungkurse)
First State Exam (Erstes Staatsexamen: Jura / Sekundarstufe II / Sonderpädagogische Lehrämter) - when awarded up to and including 2002/ Erste Staatsprüfung (Primarstufe / Sekundarstufe I) / Bachelor’s (post-2002)/ Zeugnis über den Zweiten Abschnitt der Ärztlichen Prüfung with minimum overall grade of 2.4/4.0 or 2.59/5.0.
Apolytirio Genikou Lykeiou with 2 A-levels
Apolytirio Genikou Lykeiou with 3 Panhellenic National Examinations
19/20 in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum grades A* and A – required subjects should be taken as A-levels.
19/20 in the Apolytirion and 19, 19, 18 in at least 3 Panhellenic national examination subjects – required subjects should be taken as Panhellenic national examination subjects
18.5/20 in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum grades A* and A– required subjects should be taken as A-levels.
19/20 in the Apolytirion and 19, 18, 18 in at least 3 Panhellenic national examination subjects – required subjects should be taken as Panhellenic national examination subjects.
18.5/20 in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum A grades – required subjects should be taken as A-levels.
18.5/20 in the Apolytirion and 18, 18, 18 in at least 3 Panhellenic national examination subjects – required subjects should be taken as Panhellenic national examination subjects.
8.3/20 in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum A grades – required subjects should be taken as A-levels.
18.5/20 in the Apolytirion and 18, 18, 17.5 in at least 3 Panhellenic national examination subjects – required subjects should be taken as Panhellenic national examination subjects.
18/20 in the Apolytirion and 2 A-levels with minimum grades A and B
18/20 in the Apolytirion and 18, 17.5, 17.5 in at least 3 Panhellenic national examination subjects – required subjects should be taken as Panhellenic national examination subjects.
If you have multiple qualifications, a table with grade equivalencies:
GCSE Grade:
A/7 = 17.5
C/4 = 16.5
Ptychio (Bachelor degree) from an approved University with a minimum overall grade of 7.5/10.
Erettsegi / Matura
5 final subjects taken in the Hungarian Matura.
95%, 90% in two Advanced level subjects and 85%, 85%, 80% in three Intermediate level subjects
90%, 90% in two Advanced level subjects and 85%, 80%, 80% in three Intermediate level subjects
85%, 85% in two Advanced level subjects and 80%, 80%, 80% in three Intermediate level subjects
80%, 80% in two Advanced level subjects and 80%, 80%, 75% in three Intermediate level subjects
80%, 80% in two Advanced level subjects and 80%, 75%, 75% in three Intermediate level subjects
Alapfokozat or Egyetemi Oklevél with minimum 3.51/5.
Stúdentspróf (bóknámsbraut/academic) (Matriculation Certificate)
Overall average score of 9/10 with 9 in required subjects
Overall average score of 8.5/10 with 9 in required subjects
Overall average score of 8.5/10 with 8.5 in required subjects
Overall average score of 8/10 with 8.5 in required subjects
Overall average score of 8/10 with 8 in required subjects
Baccalaurreatus or Bakkalárpróf or Candidatus with a minimum of 7.25/10.
Irish Leaving Certificate (Higher level)
H1, H1, H1, H2, H2
H1, H1, H2, H2, H2
H2, H2, H2, H2, H2
H2, H2, H2, H3, H3
H2, H2, H3, H3, H3
H3, H3, H3, H3, H3
For specified subjects:
H1 = A*, H2 = A, H3 = B, H4 = C
Diploma di Esame di Stato
Overall average grade of 97% or above, with 90% in required subjects.
Overall average grade of 95% or above, with 90% in required subjects.
Overall average grade of 92% or above, with 90% in required subjects.
Overall average grade of 89% or above, with 90% in required subjects.
Overall average grade of 86% or above, with 90% in required subjects.
The following qualifications can be used for entry to postgraduate courses with a minimum overall grade of 104/110, with a minimum of 26/30 in core courses:
• Laurea (a three-year bachelor’s degree) • Diploma Accademico di Primo Livello • Licenza di Accademia di Belle Arti • Diploma di Istituto Superiore per le Industrie Artistiche
Bachelor’s and master’s degree (Corsi di Laurea Specialistica/Master Universitario di Primo Livello/Diploma di Specializzazione di Primo Livello) with minimums as per the grading systems.
Diplomë për kryerjen e shkollës së mesme të lartë is currently not accepted for direct entry to any of our bachelor degree programmes.
Baҫelor / Baccalaureus (Bachelor Degree) from an approved Kosovan institution, with a GPA score of at least B or 9/10 (Very Good).
Postgraduate Taught
A minimum of four years study and been awarded the Bakalaurs degree (commenced after 2000) with a minimum final grade of 8/10 or better; or a 1st Cycle Bakalaurs degree (180 ECTS credits) with a minimum of 8/10
Magistr with 8 or better in addition to Bakalaurs
Liechtenstein Matura
6.0 overall including at least 6 in two subjects and 5 in one
6.0 overall including at least 5 in three subjects
5.5 overall including at least 5 in two subjects and 4 in one
5.5 overall including at least 5 in one subject and 4 in two
Bachelor Degree / Dipl Ing (FH) - Fachhochschule Diplom / Dipl Arch (FH) / Magister Philosophiae with an overall grade of 5/6 or Good.
Brandos Atestatas (Certificate of Maturity from a Gymnasium or Secondary School)
Overall average 9.5 in the school matura, to include at least three state examinations at 95%, 95%, 90%
Overall average 9.5 in the school matura, to include at least three state examinations at 95%, 90%, 90%
Overall average 9 in the school matura, to include at least three state examinations at 90%, 90%, 90%
Overall average 9 in the school matura, to include at least three state examinations at 90%, 90%, 85%
Overall average 9 in the school matura, to include at least three state examinations at 90%, 85%, 85%
Bakalauro Diplomas (Bachelor's Degree) or Profesinis Bakalauras (Professional Bachelor's Degree) with minimum 9/10 or 84%.
Diplôme de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires
Pass with an overall score of 50 or above with a minimum of 50 points in required subjects.
Pass with an overall score of 48 or above with a minimum of 50 in required subjects.
Pass with an overall score of 47 or above with a minimum of 48 in required subjects.
Pass with an overall score of 46 or above with a minimum of 46 in required subjects.
Pass with an overall score of 45 or above with a minimum of 45 in required subjects.
A Bachelor’s degree with a minimum of 16/20.
Advanced Matriculation (AM) / Matriculation Certificate Examination- (as examined by University of Malta (MATSEC) only)
Pass with AA at Advanced Level and AAA at Intermediate level.
Excludes Intermediate Level in Systems of Knowledge
Pass with AA at Advanced Level and AAB at Intermediate level.
Pass with AB at Advanced Level and ABB at Intermediate level.
Bachelor’s degree with minimum of 70% (Upper Second Class).
The Diploma de Bacalaureat is currently not accepted for direct entry to any of our bachelor degree programmes.
Diploma de Licenţă (Diploma of Licentiate) with a minimum score of 9/10 from an approved institution.
See: France
For degrees conferred by French authorities, the entry requirements from France apply.
For degrees conferred by International University of Monaco (IUM), a three-year degree is required as per the grading scale below:
Postgraduate Research Programmes A bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree as per the grading scale above or as per France requirements if degree is conferred by a French authority.
Diploma o polozenom maturskom ispitu
5,5,5,5 with 5 in required subjects.
5,5,5,4 with 5 in required subjects.
5,5,4,4 with 5 in required subjects
5,4,4,4 with 4.5 in required subjects.
Diploma o završenim osnovnim akademskim studijama (Diploma of Completed Academic Undergraduate Studies) or Diploma primenjenih osnovnih studija (Diploma of Professional Undergraduate Studies) with overall grade of 9 and above, or B and above.
VWO (Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs)
Minimum of grade 8.5 overall plus three subjects with a minimum of grade 9, 9, 8 – with minimum of 8.5 in any required subject(s).
Minimum of grade 8.3 overall plus three subjects with a minimum of grade 9, 8, 8 – with minimum of 8 in any required subject(s).
Minimum of grade 8 overall plus three subjects with a minimum of grade 8, 8, 8 – with minimum of 8 in any required subject(s).
Minimum of grade 7.8 overall plus three subjects with a minimum of grade 8, 8, 7 – with minimum of 8 in any required subject(s).
Minimum of grade 7.5 overall plus three subjects with a minimum of grade 8, 7, 7 – with minimum of 7.5 in any required subject(s).
A bachelor’s degree or doctoraal with a minimum of 7/10.
Macedonian Secondary School Leaving Diploma/Matura
An overall grade of 5.0, with 5.0 in required subject(s).
An overall grade of 4.9 – 4.99, with 5.0 in required subject(s).
An overall grade of 4.8 – 4.89, with 5.0 in required subject(s).
An overall grade of 4.7 – 4.79, with 5.0 in required subject(s).
A Baccalaureus/Baccalaurea/Bachelor’s Degree (4 – 6 years) or Magistar/Master’s degree with a minimum of 9/10.
Vitnemål for videregående opplæring (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School)
Overall grade 5 with minimum of 5 in required subject(s).
Overall grade 4.9 with minimum of 5 in required subject(s).
Overall grade 4.8 with minimum of 5 in required subject(s).
Overall grade 4.7 with minimum of 5 in required subject(s).
Overall grade 4.6 with minimum of 5 in required subject(s).
Maths
Students applying for mathematics or science-based programmes which require mathematics and further mathematics at A- level will require VVO mathematics at R1 followed by R2 level
S2 mathematics is required for applicants to Social Science programmes which require Maths A- level
Bachelorgrad (2003 onwards), Candidatus/a Magisterii (cand.
Mag.), Sivilingeniør (siv.ing) (Engineering degree), Siviløkonom (siv.
øk.) with a minimum of grade B or 2.0.
Polish Swiadectwo Dojrzałości / Matura
Overall average of 90% or above to include at least 3 advanced level courses, 2 of which are at 90% or above with the other advanced level course at 85% including required subject(s).
Overall average of 90% or above overall (to include at least 3 advanced level courses, 1 of which is at 90% or above with the other 2 advanced level courses at 85%) including required subject(s).
Overall average of 85% or above overall (to include at least 3 advanced level courses at 85%) including required subject(s).
Overall average of 80% or above (to include at least 3 advanced level courses, 1 of which is at 85% or above with the other 2 advanced level courses at 80%)
Overall average of 80% or above (to include at least 3 advanced level courses, 2 of which are at 80% or above with the other advanced level course at 75%)
Licencjat / Inżynier (Bachelor degree) (post-2005) with an overall grade of 4.5/5, B or Better than good.
Diploma Nível Secundário de Educação / Certificado Nível Secundário de Educação
Overall average score of 19 or above with 19 in at least three subjects including required subject(s).
Overall average score of 18 or above with 19 in at least two subjects including required subject(s) and one subject at 18.
Overall average score of 18 or above with 18 in at least three subjects including required subject(s).
Overall average score of 18 or above with 18 in at least two subjects including required subject(s) and one subject at 17.
Overall average score of 17 or above with 18 in at least one subject including required subject(s) and two subjects at 17.
Licenciado or Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados - DESE with 16/20, Bom com distinção (good with distinction).
Diplomă de Bacalaureat
Minimum 9.5 overall in the diploma, with three written subjects (with at least 9.5 in two of those written subjects plus at least 9.0 in the other written subject).
Written subjects should include required subject(s) where possible.
Minimum 9.5 overall in the diploma, with three written subjects (with at least 9.5 in two written subjects plus at least 9.0 in the other written subject).
Minimum 9.3 overall in the diploma, with three written subjects (with at least 9.0 in those three written subjects).
Minimum 9.0 overall in the diploma, with three written subjects (with at least 9.0 in two of those written subjects plus at least 8.5 in the other written subject).
Diploma de Licenta/Diploma de Inginer degree with a minimum final grade of 8/10 or better.
The Russian ( Attestat ) Certificate of Secondary Education at grade 11 is not sufficient for direct entry.
Applicants with at least two years of a Bachelor’s Degree or Specialist Diploma in a relevant subject with an average score of 4/5 may be considered for first year entry to undergraduate programmes.
Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma with 4/5.
Диплома о стеченом среднем образованиy / Diploma o stecenom srednem obrazovanju (Diploma of Completed Secondary Education) / Matura (less than 5 years)
Overall average score of 5, with 5 in required subject(s).
Overall average score of 4.5, with 5 in required subject(s).
Diplomirani or Diplom Visokog Obrazovanja  with 9/10 from a recognised University in Serbia.
Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške (Secondary School Leaving Certificate)
výborný (1) in the majority of subjects with at least 4 subjects having been taken, with a minimum of 85% in required subject(s).
Bakalár awarded since 2005 with grade B or 1.5 or 86% minimum.
Maturitetno Spricevalo/Matura Certificate
SSuccessfully complete the Matura examinations with a minimum score of 5,5,5,5,4 in five individual subjects (including two higher level subjects).
Successfully complete the Matura examinations with a minimum score of 5,5,5,5,4 in five individual subjects (including two higher level subjects).
Successfully complete the Matura examinations with a minimum score of 5,5,5,4,4 in five individual subjects (including two higher level subjects).
Successfully complete the Matura examinations with a minimum score of 5,5,4,4,4 in five individual subjects (including two higher level subjects).
Note: Higher level mathematics or higher level in a language may be required for some programmes (any programme requiring an A-level in maths or an A-level in a language) and students should achieve a mark of between 6 – 8.
In such a case, this grade would replace one of the specified grades.
University Diploma (Univerzitetni Diplomant) with a minimum of grade 8.5/10.
Título de Bachillerato
9.1 overall with 9.0 in required subjects.
8.9 overall with 9.0 in required subjects.
8.7 overall with 9.0 in required subjects.
8.4 overall with 9.0 in required subjects.
8.0 overall with 8.0 in required subjects.
Note: 9 may be required in specified required subjects, and Faculty of Science courses/departments require the Science and Technology strand.
Titulo Universitario Oficial de Graduado/Titulo Universitario Oficial de Ingerio/Titulo Universitario Oficial de Licenciado with minimum 7 out of 10.
Högskoleförberedande Examen från Gymnasieskola/ Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg fran Gymnasleskolan
Pass the overall qualification with a minimum of 2500 credits taken, with A grades in 2200 credits with no subjects below grade C.
Required subjects should be at A grade.
Pass the overall qualification with a minimum of 2500 credits taken, with A grades in 2000 credits with no subjects below grade C.
Pass the overall qualification with a minimum of 2500 credits taken, with A grades in 1800 credits with no subjects below grade C.
Pass the overall qualification with a minimum of 2500 credits taken with A grades in 1600 credits with a further minimum of 800 credits at grade B, with no credits below grade C.
Pass the overall qualification with a minimum of 2500 credits taken with A grades in 1300 credits with a further minimum of 700 credits at grade B, with no subjects below grade C.
Required subjects should be at least B grade.
Bachelor’s degree with VG (Väl godkänd) - Pass with distinction.
Federal Maturity Certificate/ Maturitätszeugnis/ Certificat de Maturité/ Baccalauréat/ Attestato di Maturità
Overall score of 5.5 with 5.5 in required subject(s)
Overall score of 5.2 with 5 in required subject(s)
Overall score of 5 with 5 in required subject(s)
Overall score of 4.8 with 5 in required subject(s)
Overall score of 4.6 with 4.5 in required subject(s)
Diplôme/Diplom/Diploma/Diplôme d'État/Staatsdiplom/Diploma di Stato/Licence/Lizentiat/Licenza with an overall a grade of 5 out of 6, or 8 out of 10, or 2 out of 5 (where 1 is the highest grade)
Devlet Lise Diplomasi (State High School Diploma) or Lise Bitirme Diplomasi (Private High School Finishing Diploma)
Final year (year 12) grade of 86% or higher – with 85% in required subjects – provided  the school is on the approved high school list
Final year (year 12) grade of 85% or higher – with 85% in required subjects – provided the school is on the approved high school list
Final year (year 12) grade of 84% or higher – with 85% in required subjects – provided the school is on the approved high school list
Final year (year 12) grade of 83% or higher – with 85% in required subjects – provided the school is on the approved high school list
If you are unsure whether your school is on our approved high school list for the Turkish Diplomasi please contact us here to confirm.
Students studying IB, American APs/SATs, or other recognised international qualifications in addition to the Turkish Diplomasi will ordinarily be made an either/ or offer on both systems.
Lisans Diplomasi with a GPA of 3.0+ depending on institution ranking, from an approved institution.
Please note this GPA requirement will be lower or higher depending on the institution ranking; please contact us here to confirm our normal GPA requirement for your institution.
The Ukrainian Certificate of Secondary School Education (Atestat pro Povnu Zagal'nu Sersdniu Osvitu) is currently not accepted for direct entry to any of our bachelor degree programmes.
Dyplom Bakalavra (when awarded after 2007) with GPA 3.4/4 or 4.2/5.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/regional-pages/latin-america-and-caribbean-:
At Durham there is a wide range of support available to students who live in Latin American & Caribbean and are considering applying to Durham.
The Latin America and Caribbean student recruitment team are there to help with any aspect of the application process.
Organiser & Information
19 August
Webinar: Venezuelan Migration Crisis in Latin America and Study Opportunities at Durham University
To be confirmed
12:00pm DST
Dr Omar Hammoud Gallego
Dr Aung Hein
SI-UK Colombia
If you have any questions about our events, please contact us at: Latin.America@Durham.ac.uk
Título de Bachiller is not suitable for direct entry.
Applicants who have successfully completed Year 1 of their undergraduate degree at good, recognised Argentinian institutions with good grades could also be considered for direct entry on a case-by-case basis.
A Título/Grado de Licenciado/a / Título de [subject area] with a GPA of 7.5 or better.
Diploma de Bachiller is not suitable for direct entry.
Applicants who have successfully completed Year 1 of their undergraduate degree at good, recognised Bolivian institutions with good grades could also be considered for direct entry on a case-by-case basis.
A Licenciatura after 4 or more years of study with a GPA of 75% or better.
The Certificado de Ensino Médio is not suitable for direct entry.
Applicants who have successfully completed Year 1 of their undergraduate degree at good, recognised Brazilian institutions with good grades could also be considered for direct entry on a case-by-case basis.
A Bacharel or Licenciatura (4 years or more) with a GPA or 7.5 or better.
The Licencia de Educación/Enseñanza Media is not suitable for direct entry.
Applicants who have successfully completed Year 1 of their undergraduate degree at good, recognised Chilean institutions with good grades could also be considered for direct entry on a case-by-case basis.
A Licenciatura after 4 or more years of study, with a GPA of 5 or better.
A Bachelor’s degree or equivalent (after 4 or more years of study) with a GPA of 5.5 or better.
The Titulo de Bachiller is not suitable for direct entry.
Applicants who have successfully completed Year 1 of their undergraduate degree at good, recognised Colombian institutions with good grades could also be considered for direct entry on a case-by-case basis.
A Licenciatura obtained after 4 or more years of study at a recognised university with a cumulative GPA of 3.8 or better.
Applicants who have successfully completed Year 1 of their undergraduate degree at good, recognised Cuban institutions with good grades could also be considered for direct entry on a case-by-case basis.
A Licenciatura after 4 or more years of study with a score of B, 80 or 4 (or better).
The Bachillerato is not suitable for direct entry.
Applicants who have successfully completed Year 1 of their undergraduate degree at good, recognised Mexican institutions with good grades could also be considered for direct entry on a case-by-case basis.
A Licenciatura obtained after 4 or more years of study at a recognised university with a promedio of 8 or better.
Certificado de Educación Secundaria Común Completa is not suitable for direct entry.
Applicants who have successfully completed Year 1 of their undergraduate degree at good, recognised Peruvian institutions with good grades could also be considered for direct entry on a case-by-case basis.
A Grado Académico de Bachiller/Título de Licenciado/Título (Profesional) de [subject area] with a GPA of 14 or better (and 13 or better for certain universities).
Grade I in at least one 2-Unit course and Grade II in two additional 2-Unit courses.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/regional-pages/north-america:
At Durham there is a wide range of support available to students who live in North America and are considering applying to Durham.
Learn more about what it's like to study and live in Durham, the world class sports facilities and our Colleges.
We like to think we combine the best of many worlds here at Durham.
The North America student recruitment team are there to help with any aspect of the application process.
If you have any questions regarding the entry requirements for Canada, please email us at North.America@durham.ac.uk .
Please note that applicants studying a Canadian Provincial High School Diploma at either a private or international institution will have their application considered on a case-by-case basis.
A Bachelors degree, with one of the following scores (or better): GPA 3.3 out of 4.0, GPA of 6.5 out of 9.0, 85% out of 100, 80% out of 90, or Grade B+.
A Master of Arts / Master of Science (Research) with a minimum of 2 years study, or an MBA.
Durham University considers a wide variety of qualifications for admission.
If you are unsure about any of the information below, please get in touch with us directly at North.America@durham.ac.uk - we're happy to help.
For 2025 entry, Durham has updated entry requirements for students attending a high school in the United States that does not offer an AP curriculum.
For students attending a school that does not offer AP curriculum, we will consider honours courses or equivalent in place of APs.
For students attending a school that has an AP curriculum, you will be expected to submit AP exams for admission.
Different degree programmes at Durham will require different exam scores.
If your school offers AP curriculum, you will need to submit a minimum of two AP exam scores in order to meet the academic entry requirements for your degree programme of choice.
Please note that you must sit and submit the examinations, we will not accept the course grade.
If there is a specific subject required for admission, you must evidence this with an AP exam.
For some programmes, one AP may be sufficient alongside two additional qualifications listed below.
A-Level requirement
Three APs
Two APs and one additional qualification
Three AP test scores of:
5,5,5
Two AP test scores of: 5,5
PLUS one of the following:
Four AP test scores of:
5,5,4,4
5,4,4
Two AP test scores of: 5,4
If your school does not offer AP courses, Durham will consider students who are completing the US High School Diploma with Honours courses.
Please note that we will be using the information submitted by your school in the UCAS Reference to confirm that your school does not offer AP curriculum, and if your school does, you cannot be considered with Honours courses alone and will need to complete APs to be considered for admission.
If you are planning to apply via this pathway, you will need to ensure that you have achieved an overall GPA of 3.7, and you will need a minimum of 3 yearlong equivalent honours courses taken in grade 11 and grade 12 in order to be eligible for admission.
Please note: Some degree programmes have subject specific requirements.
If you are applying to a programme with subject specific requirements and you are unsure if your honours course will meet the requirements, please contact us.
Three honours
Two honours and one additional qualification
Achieve overall GPA of 3.7 with three honours classes at:
A+, A+, A+
Achieve overall GPA of 3.7
PLUS
Two honours classes of A+, A+, and one of the following:
A+, A, A
Two honours classes of A+, A, and one of the following:
A, A, A
Two honours classes of A, A, and one of the following:
A-, A-, A-
Two honours classes of A-, A-, and one of the following:
B+, B+, B+
Two honours classes of B+, B+, and one of the following:
If you are completing an A ssociate’s Degree or Year 1 of a Bachelor’s Degree, we can consider these for entry into Year 1 of a Bachelor’s Degree at Durham University.
If you are applying to a Degree Programme at Durham which has subject-specific entry requirements, these must still be met.
We may require you to submit a curriculum overview, outlinin g the academic content covered within your Associate’s Degree / Bachelor’s Degree so we can determine whether it aligns with the subject-specific entry requirements.
Typically, you will need to meet the A Level subject requirement with a yearlong equivalent course.
Associates degree
First Year of Bachelor’s degree
CGPA: 3.6
GPA: 3.6
CGPA: 3.5
GPA: 3.5
CGPA: 3.4
GPA: 3.4
CGPA: 3.2
GPA: 3.2
CGPA: 3.1
GPA: 3.1
For students applying with a High School Diploma and Honours courses, you will need to have completed your school's equivalent of the above.
If you are unsure if your course meets the A Level requirements, please get in touch with us.
Durham’s College Board Code: 5488
Contact us: North.America@Durham.ac.uk
A Bachelors degree from an accredited university with a GPA of 3.3 or better out of 4.0.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/regional-pages/south-east-asia:
At Durham there is a wide range of support available to students who live in South East Asia and are considering applying to Durham.
The South East Asia student recruitment team are there to help with any aspect of the application process.
A Masters’ degree from a recognised institution in Brunei will be considered for postgraduate entry with minimum grade of 70%, Excellent/Very Good or a numeric score of 3.5.
A Master's degree with scores of 80-84% / B+ / 3.50-3.99/ Very Good depending on the awarding institution.
Pass Diploma II (D2) or Diploma III (D3) with GPA of 8 out of 10.
Pass Diploma II (D2) or Diploma III (D3) with GPA of 7 out of 10.
Pass Diploma II (D2) or Diploma III (D3) with GPA of 6 out of 10.
A bachelors degree from a recognised institution with a GPA of 3.3 or above.
A bachelor’s degree from a recognised Malaysian University, with a CGPA of 3.2 or higher.
The High School Diploma is not suitable for direct entry.
A Bachelors degree from select universities on the International Office's list.
First year entry to relevant undergraduate programmes, except Engineering (see Engineering requirements below).
3-year Diploma from a recognised Polytechnic in Singapore in a relevant subject with the following grades;
Recognised Polytechnics
Durham’s Department of Engineering will consider applications for 2 nd year entry to its BEng General Engineering programme.
Applicants must pass the Polytechnic Diploma in engineering from one of the five listed Polytechnics above, with a GPA of 3.3 or higher, plus obtain high grades - B+ or 80% or GPA 3.5, in both mathematics and physics.
Please note: Polytechnic Diploma holders are not required to take IELTS.
There is exemption in place (see below)
Applicants with a Diploma in Law and Management from Temasek Polytechnic - GPA of 3.3 plus satisfactory LNAT scores, can be considered for year one entry to LLB
Applicants with a Diploma in Management Studies from the Singapore Institute of Management, can be considered for year one entry to Durham University Business School’s BA Business & Management and BA Marketing & Management programmes, providing they achieve a B+ or above average grade from the SIM Diploma in Management Studies and IELTS of 6.5 with no element below 6, or a University approved equivalent
A Bachelors degree with a 2:1 and a GPA of 3.3/4.0 or 4.0/5.0.
A Bachelors degree with an overall score of 70% or higher or a GPA of 3.0 - 3.3 or higher depending on the awarding institution.
The Upper Secondary School Graduation Diploma is not suitable for direct entry.
However, it can be considered on a case-by-case basis to fulfil GCSE requirements.
Every subject passed in Upper Secondary School Graduate Diploma at grade 5-10 is comparable to GCSE A*C/9-5.
English Language is comparable to Second Language only.
A 4-year Bachelors degree (Bang tot nghiep dai hoc) awarded by a recognised institution with a GPA of 7.0 or higher.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/entry-requirements/uk-students:
If you are holding or studying towards the Access to HE Diploma we need 60 credits with a minimum of 45 credits at level 3.
How many credits are needed at distinction and merit levels will differ depending on the course you want to study.
Typical offers range from 30 level three credits at distinction and 15 at merit to 15 level three credits at distinction and 30 at merit.
At least 30 level 3 credits at Distinction a
nd in addition at least 15 level 3 credits at a minimum of merit
You will also need to meet other course requirements, for example study of specific subjects or the passing of additional tests or interviews where these are needed for entry.
If you’re studying for or have already achieved A levels then you can find the grades you’ll need for your course on our Courses Database , as well as any subjects you’ll need to have studied.
Our offers are usually based on the grades you achieve from your best three A levels, with grades ranging from A*A*A to BBB, but we don’t accept General Studies or Global Perspectives & Research.
You also won’t be able to count two AS levels as one A level.
You don’t have to have studied your A levels in one sitting, as we will accept grades achieved in different years.
We consider a range of BTEC level 3 qualifications in combination with A levels (or equivalent).
For many of our courses, the BTEC level 3 Extended Diploma can be accepted alone, however many of our courses also require specific subject A levels (or equivalent) alongside this.
The table below shows the basic BTEC (QCF) requirements, however for some courses you will need A levels in certain subjects in addition to these grades:
The table below shows the basic BTEC (RQF) requirements, however for some courses you will need A levels in certain subjects in addition to these grades:
If you're interested in studying Primary Education and are studying the CACHE Level 3 Diploma in Child Care & Education we'd welcome your application.
We require a grade A from this qualification for entry to our Primary Education course.
The Cambridge Pre-U, as either the full Diploma or individual principal subjects, is excellent preparation for a degree at Durham.
Individual pre-U principal subjects can also be combined with A levels to meet our entry requirements: A* at A level = D2 in pre-U principal subject
A at A level = D3 in pre-U principal subject
B at A level = M2 in pre-U principal subject
C at A level = M3 in pre-U principal subject Our offers exclude the Global Perspectives course.
We consider the OCR Cambridge Technical Extended Diploma in lieu of three A levels, with grades ranging from D*D*D to DDM.
The OCR Cambridge Technical Diploma is considered in lieu of 2 GCE A levels, and the OCR Cambridge Technical Subsidiary Diploma in lieu of 1 A level.
Where a specific subject or subjects are required at A level then you will still need to meet this requirement.
The table below shows the basic requirements, however for some courses you will need A levels in certain subjects in addition to these grades:
We value the extended project as a qualification which provides you with skills in project management and extended writing which are excellent preparation for university study and a successful higher education experience, but it does not form part of our offers.
We accept the International Baccalaureate Diploma and Career-elated programme (where this includes three individual Diploma Higher Level subjects).
Offers are usually made on achievement of an overall IB Diploma grade or three individual Higher Level subjects at specified grades, including specific grades in specific subjects where this is needed for the course.
If you are studying for an A level with an English examination board in a science subject that includes a practical element (Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Geology) then you must pass this as a condition of entry for our Faculty of Science courses.
The University recognises both Highers and Advanced Highers and, depending on grades achieved/predicted, applicants can be accepted with either of these qualifications.
If your school offers Advanced Highers we expect you to take these, however we recognise that not all schools offer full Advanced Higher provision.
As such, if your school doesn’t offer Advanced Highers or only allows one or two to be studied, then we may make offers based on Highers or a combination of Advanced Highers and Highers.
Where specified subjects are required, these would usually need to be taken at Advanced Level.
Highers would only be considered on a case-by-case basis.
This qualification is considered on a case-by-case basis, depending on the curriculum taken and the course applied for.
When applying with this qualification, please upload a copy of your transcript to your application through your portal , and ensure your referee provides details about your studies to help us assess your application.
We welcome applications from students of outstanding achievement and potential from all educational backgrounds.
We will consider applicants studying T level qualifications for entry to many of our courses.
Where a course requires subject specific knowledge and this is not covered within the T level being studied, you may need to supplement your T level studies with a suitable qualification to meet this requirement, for example at A level.
Where this is needed this will be clearly stated in our entry requirements.
Detailed entry requirements can be found on individual course entries on our courses database.
We consider the UAL Level 3 Diploma as equivalent to one A level to be taken alongside two A levels or equivalent in different subjects (please note, some courses have specified subjects that would need to be fulfilled).
A* at A level = Distinction A at A level = Higher Merit B at A level = Merit C at A level = Higher Pass
We accept the UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma in Music Performance and Production at Distinction for our Music courses in conjunction with either A level Music, ABRSM Music Theory Grade 6 or our in house equivalent test.
We value the Advanced Skills Challenge as a qualification which provides you with skills which are excellent preparation for university study and a successful higher education experience, but it does not form part of our offers.
We value the WJEC Level 3 Applied Certificate as a qualification which provides you with skills which are excellent preparation for university study and a successful higher education experience, but it does not form part of our offers.
We will consider applicants studying a WJEC Level 3 Applied Diploma for entry to many of our courses.
This is considered on a case by case basis.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/entry-requirements/international-qualifications:
Durham University welcomes applications from students all over the world.
Some country and region-specific entry requirements are listed on our regional pages linked below, but if you do not see your country/region or qualification please get in touch with us .
If you don’t have the qualifications for entry or need extra help with the English language, then we accept a number of courses for entry to our undergraduate degrees.
Discover more about our range of Foundation Courses.
International students who do not meet direct entry requirements have the option of studying an International Foundation Year or a Pre-Masters programme at the Durham University International Study Centre.
Find out more about entry requirements for pathway programmes.
Get information on country-specific entry requirements, recruitment events in your country, and how to contact our regional representatives.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/entry-requirements/english-language-requirements:
Durham has a long and proud history of welcoming overseas students from countries across the globe.
To make sure you can benefit fully from the unique learning experience available at Durham it’s important that you can demonstrate competency in the English language at the level required for the course you want to study.
If English is not your first language, then you must provide evidence of your ability in spoken and written English.
Durham accepts a number of tests and qualifications as evidence of meeting its English language requirements.
If for any reason the recognised English Language tests are not available to you, we also recognise a number of other qualifications as meeting our English language requirements.
If international students like you do not meet entry requirements for International Foundation Year or Pre-Masters programmes at Durham University International Study Centre, you can take an English language course first.
Find your subject to find the level you will need to achieve in the test you are taking for entry to pre-sessional by department and level of study.
We offer 6, 10 and 20 week pre-sessional English courses for Durham University offer holders who may need to boost their English language skills before taking up their place with us.
If you’ve already studied a degree, which was taught in English, then you may not need to take an additional English language test.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/fees-and-funding-:
Fees for full-time international students are displayed in the course database.
Please check this for up-to-date fees.
Information about fees related to the International Study Centre can be found on their own website.
More information is available below.
Durham University supports students from USA or Canada with obtaining loans from their home country.
F or more information about Foreign Loans see our corresponding section.
Canadian students have the ability to borrow government loans through their province and you can find more information from the Government of Canada Student Loans website .
Durham University authorises enrolment verification forms on behalf of Canadian students, and you can bring your forms to the Scholarships and Student Funding Service or email us .
US citizens and eligible non-citizens can apply for William D.
Ford Direct Loans, private loans through Sallie Mae or combination of both.
Direct loans interest rates are lower than private loans and students should investigate all options before borrowing.
Please find additional information about Federal Student Aid from studentaid.gov website.
Students receiving aid from other foreign countries should, once in Durham, bring their loan and deferment forms to the Scholarships and Student Funding Service in The Palatine Centre.
Fee's and Funding opportunities and guidance for International Students.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/fees-and-funding-/fee-status-and-payment:
For universities in the UK, like Durham, there are two tuition fee rates – a lower rate for applicants assessed as ‘home’ and a higher rate for applicants assessed as ‘overseas.
Whether you pay a ‘home’ fee or an ‘overseas’ fee depends on you meeting certain criteria.
Fee status criteria are set out in regulations and guidance published by the four countries of the UK – the criteria which apply to Durham is for “Higher Education in England”.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) publishes advice and guidance on fee status which is helpful if you are in doubt about what your fee status might be.
Recruitment and Admissions are responsible for assessing fee status for applicants and students.
Because fee status assessments are carried out by each university you apply to, it’s possible that in borderline cases different universities may come to different decisions.
When you apply to us, an assessment of your fee status is made automatically based on the information on your application form.
If you receive an offer then your fee status will be confirmed in your offer letter, and for international students at UCAS as well.
If you think you have been assessed incorrectly you can appeal by contacting us at feestatus.admissions@durham.ac.uk , giving reasons why you disagree with the assessment.
If it is considered you have grounds for appeal then we will contact you with details on how to proceed.
You will be asked a number of questions on our online application form which helps us to assess your fee status.
We will send you a notification through your applicant portal to let you know what your fee status is.
If you think you have been assessed incorrectly then you can submit a Fee Status Review request.
You do this through your applicant portal by clicking on the arrow next to your course and selecting ‘View Fee Status’.
There are certain circumstances where it is possible for you to change fee status part way through your course (from overseas to home).
If after checking the UKCISA website you think this might apply to you, then you can contact us explaining why you think your fee status should change, and if appropriate we will send you a form to complete asking for further information.
You will also need to send us any documents to support your case.
We will only deal directly with you in cases of fee status unless you give us express permission in writing that we may speak to a parent or other person of your choosing.
If you would like to nominate someone to act on your behalf then please complete our enquiry form .
Undergraduate and PGCE students should contact us at feestatus.admissions@durham.ac.uk
Postgraduate students should contact us using our enquiry form .
Whilst we know some of what we might expect for fee status following the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, we are currently waiting for revised fee status regulations to be published by the UK Government.
This means that in some instances we may not be able to resolve appeals until after these have been published and considered.
Meanwhile, UKCISA is the best place to check for updates.
Should a student already enrolled with the University provide new information that they could otherwise have provided at an earlier date in the admissions process which would entitle them to Home/EU fee status, the University would apply any such change to the next full academic year of study.
The remainder of the year would be charged at the international rate.
To comply with the Data Protection Act 1998, communication regarding fee status assessment by the University will, by default, be only possible with the applicant or student directly.
Should an applicant or student wish to nominate a third party (e.g., parent, teacher, or agent) to discuss this on their behalf, they should fill out our enquiry form and should provide the name, telephone number, email address for the third party to which they are giving permission and the applicant’s relationship to this person.
Applicants should also state what they are nominating access for (i.e., in this instance their fee status assessment).
An opportunity to nominate a third party will also be provided on the Home Fees Verification and Fee Status Enquiry forms.
Tuition and accommodation fees are payable following your arrival at the University.
An invoice will be issued to you indicating the date by which you must have paid these fees.
Payments, in sterling, can be made direct debit, credit card, cheque or bankers draft or bank transfer.
However, direct debit is the University's preferred method of payment.
Tuition fees can be paid in one lump sum, or in three installments, divided into three equal payments.
For information about the payment and division of your tuition fee payments, please contact the Finance department .
More information on paying your tuition fees .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/fees-and-funding-/foreign-loans:
Durham University supports students from the USA or Canada with obtaining loans from their home country.
Students receiving aid from other foreign countries should bring their loan and deferment forms to the Student Funding and Immigration Service Office in The Palatine Centre.
Email: us.loans@durham.ac.uk
US Student Federal Aid Handling, Student Funding and Immigration Services, The Palatine Centre, Durham University, Stockton Road, Durham, DH1 3LE, United Kingdom.
Durham University authorises enrolment verification forms on behalf of Canadian students and you can bring your forms to the Student Funding and Immigration Services or email us.loans@durham.ac.uk .
Durham University's Institutional Code is PUAP .
Ford Direct Loans, private loans through Sallie Mae or a combination of both.
Direct loans interest rates are lower than Private Loans and students should investigate all options before borrowing.
US Veterans or their dependents can use the funding to contribute towards tuition fees and living expenses and Durham University participates in the VA Educational Benefits programme.
If you are seeking information about Internal Revenue Service (IRS) forms, a tax return in the United States or Canada, you should contact the Finance Department at Accounts.Receivable@durham.ac.uk as only tuition fees can be included on these documents, and the Finance Department hold the tuition fee information.
Durham University Consumer Information Disclosures as per the requirements of the US Department of Education for participating Title IV schools (OPEID 00858700).
Before considering private loans it is important that you fully research government or local authority funding.
If this is not an option there are several private loans available to Durham University students.
We have produced a helpful guide which will outline everything you need to know about Private Loans available to students at Durham University.
Disclaimer:
For the avoidance of doubt, Durham University cannot provide any financial advice or make any recommendation in relation to any of these loan providers.
Durham University is not a party to any Agreement you may enter into with your chosen loan provider and as such you agree that Durham University will not be held liable for any issues that may arise out of that contractual relationship.
We therefore strongly suggest you carefully read any terms and conditions including but not limited to any data protection provisions provided to you by your chosen loan provider before you sign.
However, please note that In order to put into effect any loan you receive from your loan provider, Durham University may have to enter into a data sharing Agreement with your chosen loan provider.
This is in order for there to be the relevant exchange of personal data solely regarding the loans being processed and any other relevant information to be processed in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act 2018.
Please note that if you decide to use any service listed on this webpage your personal details will be held outside of the UK and EEA , in the U.S and may be passed to other third parties companies as required by the provider in order to deliver the service.
We strongly suggest you read the lenders privacy policy and their terms and conditions before signing up to ensure that you are content to do so.
For the avoidance of doubt, Durham University accepts no responsibility or liability for any damage caused to you, your property (computer based or otherwise), software or data caused as a result of using this service.
However, if  at any point after signing up, you find any unwelcome or strange activity occurring in your email account, or notice any suspected unauthorised usage of your data that you have provided to [Name of Service], then please report this immediately to fraud.support@durham.ac.uk
Durham University is a degree-awarding institution, and it only awards degrees (undergraduate, postgraduate, including both Master's and Doctoral qualifications).
Therefore, reporting requirements under Gainful Employment legislation are not required.
However, the University cannot guarantee the information may not be altered owing to circumstances beyond the University's reasonable control.
Any changes will be incorporated into the University's website as early as possible.
Any person wishing to obtain confirmation of any particular item should contact the University via us.loans@durham.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/scholarships/international:
Postgraduate Taught Programmes (PGT) Postgraduate Research Programmes (PGR) Undergraduate (UG)
ANID (PGT + PGR)
British Council Women in STEM
Open date:
Students who are a citizen of or be granted refugee status by an eligible Commonwealth country, or be a British Protected Person.
Students who are registered for a PhD at a university in an eligible Commonwealth country.
For PGR students, Durham University accepts the maximum tuition fee provided by CONAHCyT (MXN 200,000), without the need for students to make any contribution from their own funds.
FUNED (PGT)
Durham-International Scholarships (PGT and UG)
GREAT Scholarships (PGT)
Close Date:
4th March 2025
South African Applicants

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/fees-and-funding-/living-costs:
Living costs are typically much lower in the North of England than they are in the South, however, your own budget will depend on your lifestyle.
Below we’ve included some key expenses with some example costs to give you an idea of how much money you will need.
Both Durham City and Queen’s Campus are compact enough to walk or bike around.
To assist all staff and students, the University now has in place an arrangement with Arriva to allow unlimited travel throughout the day on any of their bus services within the Durham District Zone for just £1.50 per day.
Please show a valid campus ID card to gain the discounted £1 ticket.
Further details and additional ticket options are available on the Arriva website .
Students can also get discounted train travel with a 16-25 railcard, which can be purchased for £30.
The rail fare between Durham City and Newcastle is around £6.00.
Discounts are also available on other destinations including London, Manchester, Liverpool, and Edinburgh.
Remember that there is no need to go out and buy every book on your reading list.
There will be copies of all course books in the library.
If you really want to have your own copy of the books, look out for cheaper second-hand versions on Amazon/eBay or from previous students selling their books.
Depending on the college you are allocated to, you may be either fully catered (meals are provided in college every day) or self-catered (you must prepare all of your own meals).
To help students, we currently offer free breakfast clubs and a surplus food initiative.
Please see our cost of living hub .
Rent costs vary depending on where you live, how many people you share with and whether your bills are included.
More information on private accommodation.
A mobile phone contract typically costs between £10 and £50 a month depending on what type of phone you opt for and how many minutes and texts you need.
If you have a smartphone, you can use WhatsApp, Skype, and Viber to keep in touch with friends and family for free as long as you have a Wi-Fi connection.
Here are some typical costs of popular leisure activities:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/fees-and-funding-/application-fees-and-post-offer-deposits-postgraduate-only:
Depending on which course you apply for, you may need to pay an application fee.
An application fee is only required for postgraduate taught programmes within the Business School (Management, Marketing, Accounting, Economics, Finance and Business Analytics).
There is no application fee for the MBA courses and the part-time MA programmes.
A non-refundable application fee of £60 is due within 4 weeks of receiving an action request from the portal asking you to make the payment through the Online Application Fee Payment page.
If you don’t pay within this time period, your application will be automatically withdrawn.
All self-funding students classified as international (according to EU regulations), who require a visa to study in the UK, will be required to pay a Tuition Fee Deposit.
The purpose of this deposit is to help demonstrate that they have the finances required in order for them to enter the UK to study.
This information is given within their CAS documentation, which is presented to the UKVI when applying for a British VISA.
Deposits are taken once an offer has been issued.
Applicants are asked to pay within 6 weeks of the date of their offer.
The deposit they pay will be credited to their account with the University and so reduce the amount that they have to pay when they are at Durham.
Programme
Price
Standard deposit amount for all Postgraduate Taught Programmes (excluding below)
£1,000
Deposit amount for MSc Business School Programmes
£2,000
Only the following Departments require Tuition Fee Deposits for Home students:
Department
Archaeology
£500
All Business School Programmes

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/accommodation-and-catering/residence-charges:
These pages contain details of the accommodation charges for undergraduate, postgraduate and visiting students.
Residence contract lengths are in line with your programme of study for the full academic year.
Durham is a collegiate university and whilst all types of room are shown not all room types are available at every College.
Further information on the type of rooms available at every College can be found here.
All charges include basic room insurance, utility bills and 24 hour security.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/visa-information/confirmation-of-acceptance-for-studies:
It provides UK Visas & Immigration (UKVI) with details of your offer (including course details and fees) and confirms that the University will be your visa ‘sponsor’ for the duration of your study.
A new CAS is required every time you apply for a student visa and you can’t use a CAS more than once.
A CAS issued by Durham only allows you to study at Durham on the course you applied for.
You’ll be issued with a CAS if your nationality normally requires you to apply for a Student visa.
If you already have another type of immigration permission that allows you to study, you can let us know when you apply and we won’t issue a CAS.
The Admissions Team will automatically process your pre-CAS and CAS when you are eligible (but not before 5 months before the start of your programme).
To be eligible you will need to be unconditional (so no outstanding offer conditions), to have accepted your offer, paid your tuition fee deposit (if applicable), and have a valid passport.
It can take up to about 4 weeks to receive a pre-CAS, but we do prioritise CAS when the start of the academic year is nearing.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/visa-information/applying-for-a-student-visa:
You must apply for a student visa in your home country before traveling to the UK unless:
Your CAS will be valid for 6 months from the date it is issued.
If your application is successful, you'll be issued with a 90-day UK Entry Visa (vignette) which will be stuck inside your passport and will allow you to travel to the UK up to one month before the start of your course.
A Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) will not be issued, but you will be required to create a UKVI account .
This account will give you access to your eVisa and allow you to verify your immigration status in the UK.
Your visa should cover the duration of your studies, plus an additional 'wrap-up period'.
You can apply for a student visa up to 3 months before the start of your course and as soon as you have received your CAS (valid for 6 months from the date it is issued).
Your new course must start no later than 28 days after your current visa expires and you must apply for a visa online before both of those dates.
Once you have applied for a student visa, you can remain in the UK and register on your course at Durham, even if you have not received a decision on your application.
Durham University is a h igher education provider with a track record of compliance and you’ll be asked to confirm this in your application.
This means that financial requirements and other evidence are not always required.
Follow the steps below to help you apply:
Your eVisa will tell you how long you’re allowed to stay in the UK.
Whether you apply in the UK or at home, you should be given permission to stay for the duration of your course plus an additional 'wrap-up period', the length of which depends on the length of your course:
The wrap-up period gives you extra time to complete your study if you need it, travel, work or look for work or apply for another visa (if eligible) if you intend to stay longer.
You should only travel to the UK once you have received your eVisa and on or after the date it is valid from.
You cannot register at the University if you don’t have a valid visa that allows you to study, when you travel to the UK.
If you arrive in the UK before your eVisa starts you will be classed as a visitor and you will be required to leave the Common travel area and re-enter the UK with your valid eVisa.
You cannot apply for a Student visa in the UK when you have entered as a visitor.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/visa-information/student-visa-requirements:
To successfully apply for a Student visa, you may need to provide evidence with your application to show how you met the conditions of your offer and that you can meet any financial requirements.
You don’t need to provide evidence to show how you met the conditions of your offer (English language or entry qualifications), or that you meet the financial requirements if:
(Taken from the Student Immigration Rules: Appendix Student )
Please note: Even if evidence is not required, you must still meet all requirements, including having the required amount of money in your account.
You could be asked for evidence of this later.
You’ll be asked to enter your unique CAS reference number during your application but you don’t need to provide the CAS as a supporting document
Use the information on the CAS statement to answer questions in the application.
Course title, start and end dates should be given exactly as stated on your CAS.
Find out more about CAS
Your CAS will state the English Language evidence you used to obtain your offer from Durham.
Durham University is a ‘Higher Education Provider with a track record of compliance’ and because of this, you’re not required to provide English language evidence with your visa application.
Student Visa : Knowledge of English
Your CAS will list the qualification you used to obtain your offer from Durham.
Durham University is a ‘Higher Education Provider with a track record of compliance’ and because of this, you’re not required to provide evidence of qualifications with your visa application.
Student Visa : Documents you'll need to apply
If any of your documents are not in English, they must be translated and fully certified by a professional translator or translation company that can be verified by the Home Office.
Translations must include all of the following:
Your CAS will tell you if you need to have permission from the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS), though it usually applies to postgraduate students studying certain Science, Engineering or Technology subjects.
ATAS applications require a CAH code which can be found in this spreadsheet: ATAS Programme codes
Apply online as soon as possible and allow at least 6 weeks for them to email your certificate to you.
Once received, you should provide the certificate with any other supporting evidence required.
Please note: ATAS have advised that you may have trouble receiving your certificate if you use a 126.com, 163.com or qq.com email address.
We advise that you use a different email address when you apply.
Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS)
If you’re applying from one of the countries listed as having a high incidence of TB , you may be required to provide a valid medical certificate as part of your visa application.
Your application will be refused if you are required to have a test, but you refuse or fail the test.
If you have recently studied in the UK and returned home to apply for a new visa, you’re not required to provide a new medical certificate if you will return to the UK within 6 months.
Tuberculosis tests for visa applicants
When you arrive Tuberculosis (TB) screening
If you apply for a Student visa that will be more than six months long, you’ll be required to pay an Immigration Healthcare Surcharge (IHS) of £776 for every year of your permission to stay in the UK (pro rata).
The IHS is paid online during your visa application.
Paying the IHS is compulsory and entitles you to use the UK National Health Service (NHS) without additional charge (on the same basis as anyone ordinarily resident in the UK) although some services may still require payment.
If you apply in the UK and for some reason have pay the IHS for the same period twice, you should be refunded automatically .
However, refunds will not be issued if you apply for a new visa outside the UK (permission to enter) and you:
If you still feel you’re entitled to a refund for any other reason and this doesn’t happen automatically, please contact the Student Immigration Service with details of the payments made and we’ll follow it up for you.
Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/visa-information/your-family:
Your family members may be able to apply for a visa to join you in the UK if:
Please visit the UKCISA webpages for detailed information about the changes: Dependants
In addition to the above, your family members can apply for a visa as your dependants if they are:
If you apply for a visa before you travel to the UK and your family will apply later, they can apply to join you as soon as you are in the UK and have received your visa.
If you’re already in the UK and applying to extend your visa, your family can apply to join you as soon as you have received a decision and your new visa.
If you’re already in the UK and your family are here with you (with permission as your dependants) they can apply to extend their permission to stay at the same time as you, on the same Student visa application or they can apply later, once you have extended your own visa, but before theirs expires.
To bring children to the UK, both parents must either apply at the same time as the child or already have permission (except as a visitor) to be in the UK.
If you’re a single parent you can also bring your child with you to the UK but you will be asked to provide legal evidence of your single parent status in your visa application.
Further information about Dependant Visa Applications .
Family members of students at Durham with Dependant permission are normally allowed to work while they’re in the UK without a restriction on hours, and this will be confirmed on their eVisa.
Work is not allowed if entering the UK as a Visitor (see below).
If your dependents are not with you in the UK, they may wish to visit you for up to 6 months while you’re here.
In this case, your dependents should apply for a Visitor visa (Standard), unless their nationality allows them to enter the UK without a visa (Non-visa national).
If they don't need a visa, they must still meet th e Visitor (Standard) requirements and be able to provide the required evidence when they arrive in the UK, if they are asked to.
Further information will be available when you arrive.
Please note the following restrictions that apply to all visitors:
Further information about visiting family .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/visa-information/student-visa-money-required:
The Student visa application requires you to confirm that you’ll have enough money to support yourself while you’re the UK and cover any course fees you’ve not yet paid.
You may also need to provide evidence, in some cases.
You’ll also need to be able to pay the visa application fee, Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) and any other associated charges.
You must have £1136 to support yourself (living costs including food accommodation) for each month of your course.
You must hold this money in your bank account, together with any course fees not yet paid (see below), for at least 28 consecutive days before you apply, unless:
Your CAS will show the full course fees for your first year of study (or the whole course if only 12 months) and any deposit you have already paid towards them.
Any amount you have not already paid, you must also hold in your bank account, together with the money to support yourself, for at least 28 consecutive days before you apply.
Please note: Any payments you make towards fees that are not shown on your CAS when it is issued cannot be added.
You should instead email finance.cashiers@durham.ac.uk and request a receipt for fees paid.
If you have paid a deposit to the University for accommodation, this will also be shown on your CAS.
You can deduct the amount you have paid from the total amount for living costs required, but only up to a maximum of £1483 .
Holding money in a bank account for at least 28 consecutive days.
The total amount of money required should be held in a bank account in your own name for a period of at least (but not less than) 28 consecutive days before you apply online.
Please note: Even if you do not have to provide evidence* when you apply, you may be asked to do so later.
You can hold the required money in a personal bank account held in the UK or in your home country.
This should be in an account held in your own name.
Bank statements must be dated no more than 31 days before the date of application.
If it is not possible to use an account in your own name, you can use a personal bank account held in the name of your parent(s) / legal guardian(s).
However, if you choose to do this, you may also need to provide the following:
If you’ll receive financial support towards your course fees and / or living costs from an Official Financial Sponsor while you study, you must have a letter from them confirming how much they’re paying to support you.
Sponsor is usually your own country's government or an international company.
It is essential that your sponsor meets UKVI criteria and that the letter is as stated in the Student guidance .
The letter from your official financial sponsor should show:
Consent letter
If your tuition fees and living costs have been paid by a government or an international scholarship agency within the 12-month period before you make your new visa application, you must provide a letter from them confirming that they give their unconditional consent for you to apply to enter or remain in the UK.
Consent is not required if you are or were sponsored by a University, an international company, and independent school, or any other type of financial sponsor.
If you received a combined funding between University and a government/an international scholarship agency paying both, fees and living costs, please answer ‘No’ where it asks if you've had sponsorship that covered both, fees and living costs, during your visa application.
If you receive US federal aid that covers your living costs and/or course fees, either partially or in full, you can declare this on your visa application.
If your US federal loan does not cover the whole amount required for visa purposes, you’ll need to have the remaining amount in a bank account for 28 consecutive days before you apply.
As a US national you don’t have to provide financial evidence as part of your application, but you must ensure you meet the requirements before you apply.
If you’re from one of the countries listed under the Differentiation arrangements , you’re not required to provide evidence of your money when you apply for your visa ( although you could be asked to provide it later).
Your application (and Document checklist) will confirm any evidence you need to provide.
If any supporting documents you’re asked to provide are not in English, they must be translated and fully certified by a professional translator or translation company that can be verified by the Home Office.
Translations must include all the following:
confirmation that it is an accurate translation of the document
the date of translation
the full name and signature of the translator or an official from the translation company
the translator or translation company’s contact details
Where you’re providing a bank statement showing a currency other than pounds sterling (GBP), you should also provide a currency conversion from the OANDA website showing the closing balance in GBP.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/visa-information/studying-as-a-visitor:
If you are coming to study in the UK for less than 6 months or you need to travel to Durham for a short period (maximum 6 months) as part of a longer course you may be able to enter the UK and study as a visitor, without having to apply for a student visa.
The Standard Visitor route is an alternative to the Student route and is not part of the Points Based System (PBS).
If you're coming to Durham in one of the situations detailed above, you should apply for:
Non-visa nationals not listed can currently enter the UK without a visa.
By the end of 2024, ETAs will be a requirement worldwide for visitors who do not currently need a visa for short stays, including those visiting from Europe.
Check the UKVI website to see if you need a visa before you travel .
If you don't need a visa, you must still meet the requirements and be able to provide the required evidence on entry to the UK if you are asked to.
See 'Evidence required', below.
Your visitor visa letter will tell you if you need to have a permission from the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS).
ATAS clearance is not required for the Standard Visitor Visa, however, you must apply as early as possible since you are required to have it before you start your studies.
Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
Please note that while you are in the UK as a visitor the following restrictions will apply:
You must provide the evidence listed on the UKVI website , including a 'visitor visa letter' from your academic department giving details about your study, the University and when you need to attend.
You should request the letter from your department well in advance of your visa application or travel to the UK.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/arrivals/arrivals-landing-page:
Welcome and Orientation Week for the new academic year will commence on Monday 29th September.
Information on arrival dates and welcome service at Durham University.
Information on taking a pre-sessional course with DCAD.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/arrivals/information-for-pre-sessional-students-2023:
Our free Airport pick up service for Pre-Sessional students will run on Saturday 5th July 2025 for 10 week Pre-Sessional and Saturday 2nd August 2025 for 6 week Pre-Sessional.
The booking form to register for this free service will be shared with you approximately 2-3 weeks before you are due to start your course.
If you are studying on a pre-sessional course with DCAD and also have an offer to study a degree programme with the University you will have two different student IDs.
One student ID for your study with DCAD and a different student ID for your main programme of study.
You will be expected to do the following:
For more information, please visit our Student Immigration pages .
Summer pre-sessional students will do this automatically during induction on the first day
Once you have completed your pre-sessional programme and you have been accepted onto your main programme of study, you will need to:
Before you can enrol and register for your main programme of study you need to allow time for several University processes to be completed including: updates to student records, completion of admissions processes, IT account adjustments.
When these have been completed, you will receive the login email for your main programme of study.
Please see notes below on username and password information.
Please note that all pre-sessional student records are assigned to Josephine Butler College for the duration of the pre-sessional programme.
Students may be assigned to a different college for the duration of their main programme and the student record for the main programme will show the college details.
Please make sure that you update your term time address when you enrol on your pre-sessional programme and again when you enrol for your main programme of study.
Your username and password for your main programme of study will be the same as the username and password you had for the pre-sessional programme.
Although you won’t be able to enrol on your main programme of study until you have received the login email after you have completed your pre-sessional programme.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/arrivals/meet-and-greet-service---frequently-asked-questions:
When does the service run?
This service runs from Wednesday 24 th September - Thursday 25 th September 2025 .
Staff will be at the airport from 9am on Wednesday 24 th September 2025.
Outside of these days the free service will not operate .
Information for Pre-Sessional Students and MBA students will be sent out by the individual departments.
How do I book a place?
You can book onto this service through a booking form , which is now available to complete here
Please only complete the form once you have received confirmation of your accommodation.
The booking form will remain open until Wednesday 17th September .
Bookings made after this date cannot be guaranteed.
Is there a charge for this service?
No, the meet and greet service from Newcastle Airport on 24 th and 25 th September 2025 is free of charge as long as you have made a booking on to this service.
What if I arrive outside of these dates?
The meet and greet service will run on Wednesday 24 th and Thursday 25 th September only.
If you arrive outside of these dates you will have to make your own way from the airport to Durham University.
There are taxis available from the airport 24 hours a day.
If your flight arrives on 23rd September, you are able to check into a nearby hotel (at your own cost) and make your way to the airport on 24 th September to use the meet and greet service.
Please let us know if this is the case by emailing international.meetandgreet@durham.ac.uk after you have completed the booking form.
What if my flight arrives before 9am or after 9pm on the 24th or 25th September?
If your flight arrives before 9am or after 9pm, please let us know at: international.meetandgreet@durham.ac.uk .
What if my flight details change after I have submitted the booking form, or my flight is delayed?
If your flight details change after you have completed the form, please email international.meetandgreet@durham.ac.uk as soon as possible so that we have your accurate arrival time.
If on the day, your flight is delayed, please email international.meetandgreet@durham.ac.uk so we can keep a track of your flight and make travel arrangements accordingly.
What do I need to check before I travel?
What if my accommodation changes after I have submitted the form?
If your college/address changes after you have submitted the form, please email international.meetandgreet@durham.ac.uk so that we can update our information and ensure you are taken to the correct place.
What can I expect on the day?
On the day, staff will be at the airport from 9am .
Once you have collected your luggage, you will come out of the Arrivals section of the airport where the staff will be waiting.
Our Durham University table will be set up directly opposite the International Arrivals area.
Please make your way to the staff who will check you in, (please keep your passport out of your luggage ready for us to check) and provide you with transport (coach or taxi) which will take you to your accommodation.
When can I check into my accommodation?
Private residence – if you are in a private residence, you need to check with your accommodation provider directly.
Please ensure you have confirmed arrangements regarding your time of arrival and key collection before you travel.
College – If you are staying in a college, the full details of your official move in date will be stated in an accommodation offer, should you receive this from the University.
Please ensure that you have checked that there will be someone available to let you into the college at your time of arrival.
It is advised to have a contact phone number for the college in case of any changes to your travel plans.
What if I arrive by train?
The meet and greet service is only for journeys from Newcastle Airport.
There are taxis available outside of Durham train station, which will be able to take you to your accommodation (at your own cost).
What is the travel time from Newcastle Airport to Durham University?
The journey time is approximately 1 hour.
The buses will do drop offs at the different Durham University colleges, which might extend your journey time .
Some students will be taken to Maiden Castle and then transported by taxi to their college.
It is advised to go to the toilet before you leave the baggage reclaim area, as there may not be the oppo rtunity to go once you leave this area.
Please be aware that the service can be busy at certain times of the day (particularly the middle of the day), please keep your luggage to two suitcases to allow for as many people to get on to the coaches as possible.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/arrivals/life-in-durham-and-the-uk:
On this page we have collected some information to help to prepare you for your life in the UK.
Further information can be found at the following link:
UKCISA: UK Traditions and Culture

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/arrivals/things-to-do-in-durham:
On this page we have collected some handy information to help enrich your experience while you are here at Durham.
Find out more about life in Durham from our international student blogs.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/arrivals/what-to-bring:
Make sure to check out the luggage policy with your airline provider before you travel ( Please remember not to bring too much luggage, no more than two suitcases is advised ).
Personal Items
Clothing
Toiletries
Find out more about regulations on bringing goods into the UK .
* Electronic items - Make sure they are compatible with the UK voltage system and safe to use before you travel!
*Food - Make sure to check out the regulations on bringing food/animal products to the UK .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/pathway-programmes/international-foundation-year:
Our International Foundation Year at Durham University International Study Centre provides the academic and English language training you need to succeed at a world-class university.
Once you successfully complete this foundation programme and achieve the required grades, you can progress to your chosen undergraduate degree at Durham University.
You may choose to study the International Foundation Year if you want to:
You choose to study one of the subject routes below.
Your choice of pathway is based on your intended undergraduate programme, as it provides the deeper level of specialist knowledge you need for degree study.
Upon successful completion, you will progress to your chosen degree at Durham University.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/pathway-programmes/pre-masters:
Our Pre-Masters at Durham University International Study Centre is a two- or three-term programme that provides the specialist academic and English language preparation you need to succeed as a postgraduate student at Durham University.
Once you successfully complete this Pre-Masters programme and achieve the required grades, you can start your chosen Masters degree at the University.
You may choose to study the Pre-Masters programme if you want to:

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/pathway-programmes/english-preparation:
If you meet the academic requirements but need help with your English language to meet the entry requirements for our International Foundation Year or Pre-Masters programme, you can take an English language course first.
Studying an English language course for international students gives you an additional term to focus on your English and raise your IELTS level.
Focusing on academic reading, writing, speaking and listening you should typically be able to increase your IELTS by 0.5 and be ready to start your academic programme with us.
Find about more about our English Language courses and entry requirements at Durham University International Study Centre .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/late-applications-2025-entry:
Find out more on the page below.
Durham is a world top 100 university, offering a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate study opportunities.
Our teaching is research-informed and delivered by some of the world's leading experts in their fields.
Durham graduates go on to exciting and fulfilling careers across the globe.
We are 64th in the world for employer reputation (QS World University Rankings 2026), and 86% of Durham’s international graduates were in work or further study 15 months post graduation (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22).
We are a collegiate university, which means that your student experience will be based in one of our 17 distinctive college communities, with opportunities to make life-long friendships, develop new skills and experiences, and access support and guidance when you need it.
Durham is a global university, providing a supportive and welcoming environment to students and staff from over 120 different counties.
Durham is also one of England’s oldest universities, set in a beautiful and historic location with a World Heritage Site at its heart.
International students typically arrive at Durham towards the end of September with teaching beginning from early October.
From June 2025 onwards, we are still accepting enquiries and late applications.
We would be delighted to hear from you!
Check out our undergraduate and taught postgraduate study options on our course search, and find out more about postgraduate research opportunities.
Fill out our form below to receive guidance on your next steps to becoming a Durham student.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/student-connect/unibuddy:
Unibuddy is a fantastic tool that allows you to connect with our current students and learn more about studying at Durham!
Our students are eager to answer any questions you may have about their school experiences, their studies, and student life.
Please note that students are unable to answer questions regarding admissions, applications or clearing; they can only share insights about their personal student experiences.
If you have any queries about applications or admissions, please reach out to our enquiries team through the Ask Us form .
If you want to know more about scholarships, you can get in touch with the Scholarships and Student Funding Office here.
If you have any questions about Clearing, please refer to this FAQs page or the Ask Us form .

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/global-durham/global-opportunities:
Please click on the headings below to find out about the Global Opportunities available to Durham students.
For information about staff mobility please visit this page: Staff Mobility .
We believe that all students should be able to gain an international experience while at Durham.
As you scroll down this page, you will find information about our yearly Global Opportunities Fairs , where we promote all things international.
There are links where Durham students can register for email updates.
Likewise, we appreciate that you may be nervous about going abroad, at the base of this page there is the GO Support section, where you can find out about all the funding -, languages -, access for all -, and SEND support packages that can be put in place.
Throughout the year we have a rolling number of Global Opportunities.
Click on the links below to find out more about the latest exciting opportunities.
Find out more about your work, study and volunteering Global Opportunities at our Drop-In session on 5 March 2025
Sign up to receive notifications about future Global Opportunities.
Please note, the sign-up to the mailing list is only available to registered Durham University students.
The next Global Opportunities Fair will take place in October 2025.
See student stories, pictures from DU undergraduates abroad and keep up to date with the latest opportunities available by following #DUglobalopportunities on social media
Durham University has been successful in boosting Global Opportunities for its students for the coming academic year.
The University has been awarded a grant from the Turing Scheme, the UK government’s programme to study and work abroad.
We know that spending time abroad may seem daunting and we welcome and encourage applications from all backgrounds and groups.
There is a range of support and funding available, depending on your personal circumstances.
We offer a range of funding to supports students from a range of backgrounds to go global.
You don't have to speak a foreign language to undertake a global opportunity, however, support is available if you do want to.
We believe all should have the opportunity to see the globe: from carers to students from hard financial backgrounds.
We offer a range of support to help students with educational needs or disabilities overcome obstacles to achieve their global ambitions.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/international/working-in-the-uk:
Working during your study can be a good way of earning extra income and gaining valuable experience.
M ake sure that any work you do doesn’t affect your study and the Durham recommends that you limit part-time work to 12 hours per week.
If you have a student visa, you’ll normally be entitled to work during your study up to a maximum of 20 hours per week during term time and full-time during holiday periods* and after your course has officially ended.
*Undergraduate students only.
University holidays do not apply to postgraduate students.
A Student visa also allows you to undertake a work placement that requires you to work over 20 hours per week if you’re registered on a course that includes a placement year.
The placement must be an assessed part of your course and not longer than half the course in total.
An internship can only be undertaken as a work placement that is part of your course (as described above), or during vacations*, or after your course has ended.
It’s not possible to start an internship or placement of more than 20 hours per week before the vacation period has started or your course end date.
If you don’t have a student visa, most other types of visa/immigration permission (except as a visitor) will allow you to work while you’re in the UK without a restriction on hours, although you should make sure that any work you do, doesn’t affect your study.
Further details of working in the UK are available to current students, contact us for further information.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/careers-employability-enterprise/our-services/start-new-ventures:
Generate more ‘lightbulb moments’ and enhance your ability to achieve meaningful impact with our range of internationally recognised innovation programmes.
Access one-to-one coaching session, workshops, funding opportunities and more to help you realise your startup ambitions.
Expert support and global connections to accelerate the growth of your startup.
The work we do is made possible by our supporters.
Join us on our mission to inspire the next generation of innovative leaders and entrepreneurs emerging from Durham University.
With the support of Venture Lab, Durham University students and graduates are creating innovative and ambitious startups that positively impact the world.
They are tackling issues ranging from food poverty to environmental sustainability.
The Venture Lab has a dedicated team helping student entrepreneurs turn ideas into real ventures.
Through workshops, coaching, resources and industry connections, we support every stage of the startup journey, from first spark to launch and beyond.
Venture Lab is managed by Careers & Enterprise
Ground Floor
Mathematical Sciences & Computer Science Building
Upper Mountjoy
Telephone: 0191 334 4428

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/study/employability/case-studies:
Durham offers a truly global outlook, world-class teaching and an exceptional student experience, all designed to help you thrive and stand out in a competitive job market.
Explore our case studies to see where a Durham degree could take you.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/the-accommodation-and-allocations-office:
The College Membership and Accommodation Office is responsible for allocating College membership and accommodation.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/accommodation-and-catering:
We know that starting University is an exciting time and choosing where you want to live is part of that experience.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities/music:
Durham University enables students to make exceptional music at all levels whilst studying for their degree.
Most of our practitioners are not music students, but enjoy taking part in ensembles alongside a range of degrees.
Music allows our students to engage with each other and the wider community, and grow through performance.
With over 30 music societies operating at University level and countless others within Colleges, there is a place for all musicians.
Whether you are looking to build your orchestral experience, find community in a choir, or compete with an international A Cappella group, there are dedicated societies to support your musical development, and to build a social life.
Alongside the University choirs, Durham University is proud of its chapel choir tradition, boasting a number of College and chapel choirs, with many offering scholarship opportunities for young singers.
To get a flavour of some of the incredible opportunities Durham musicians can enjoy, take a look at this video, following Durham University Choral Society in their partnership with the Royal Northern Sinfonia at the Glasshouse International Centre for Music, conducted by Thomas Zehetmair.
Durham Student Music groups make use of a variety of venues both within the University and beyond.
Our small ensembles regularly perform in the Castle Great Hall, as well as chapels and bars around the City.
Our larger ensembles regularly make use of College halls, as well as some of the larger churches around the city.
There are also jazz and chamber gigs in the University theatre, the Sir Thomas Allen Assembly Rooms.
There are also up to four concerts a year in Durham Cathedral, with up to 300 student practitioners performing to over 450 audience members.
We also visit the Gala Durham in the centre of town, where 450 audience members can enjoy musical theatre productions and orchestral concerts.
Each College has its own unique atmosphere and ensembles, and there are also some intercollegiate groups.
From Van Mildert Big Band to Hatfield Flute Choir, plus open-mic events, there is no shortage of music to get involved with and enjoy.
We offer excellent opportunities to enjoy music from around the world, with a range of world music groups including Gamelan, and P'Ungmul (the Korean Drumming group).
These ensembles benefit from expert teaching led by local musicians and academics from the Music department.
There are also a number of chamber groups including Dunelm Consort and Players, Flute Choir, string quartets and the award-winning Durham University Chamber Choir that you can be part of.
For those seeking a larger ensemble, the University boasts three symphony orchestras, and a 120-strong choir, who perform at some of the most impressive venues in the region.
Spring 2022 saw the arrival of the much-anticipated All-Steinway School status for Durham University.
The beautifully crafted pianos are accessible to all students regardless of their level of experience both within the Music Department and across all 17 Colleges.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities/theatre:
The University boasts 30 theatre societies, all led by talented students and supported by a dedicated staff team.
These groups put on around 90 productions a year, including musicals, plays, opera, comedy and performance art in our University theatre, the Sir Thomas Allen Assembly Rooms, and beyond, around Durham City.
With 20 all-University and 14 College-based societies, there is a place for all theatre makers at Durham University.
Whether you come with plenty of acting experience, or you would like to try going backstage for the first time, discover your community and creativity in the diverse range of musical theatre, drama, comedy and more in the Durham theatre scene.
Durham Student Theatre enjoys access to the University's own Sir Thomas Allen Assembly Rooms Theatre.
Located right in the heart of historic Durham City, the 175 seat theatre started life as a ballroom, being redeveloped as a theatre in 1869 and acquired by the University in 1930.
It has recently had a £2 million renovation and been the recipient of the Durham University environmental grant to bring it up to modern specifications, and a brand new LED lighting rig.
Student theatre and music societies also make good use of the city's main professional theatre, Gala Durham, such as an annual week-long run of a musical, which in recent years has included Anything Goes (2024), Hello Dolly!
(2023), and Guys and Dolls (2022).
Groups will also perform in other venues and College spaces around the city, with some students also performing in Durham Castle on the UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The performing arts team also make use of Durham Cathedral, with several major concerts each academic year, occasionally featuring student theatre practitioners alongside hundreds of student musicians.
Recent examples include performances of extracts of Beauty and the Beast and the Hunchback of Notre Dame as part of the sell-out end-of-year performing arts concert.
Durham Drama Festival (DDF) is a week-long celebration of new student writing.
Each year, up to nine brand-new plays are brought to life by companies of actors and crew.
2024 saw six performances, of which five toured other venues and festivals over the summer, including the Edinburgh Fringe.
Alongside a busy programme of performances in Durham City, there is a spectrum of other opportunities to get involved with theatre at Durham.
A full programme of annual workshops run by industry professionals and visiting drama school teachers help develop our students' skills for theatre and future professional practice.
Alongside this are plenty of student-led for-fun workshops in everything from dance to improvised comedy to learn a new skill, or enjoy time with friends.
Performance-based opportunities are abundant.
Several student groups perform at the National Student Drama Festival, as well as at other universities and competitions around the UK.
Each summer, several productions will also tour.
In 2024, six student-led plays were presented at the annual Durham Fringe Festival, and there were 10+ new plays hitting the world-famous Edinburgh Fringe Festival.
From a College perspective, Castle Theatre Company completed a month-long tour of the south of England.
There are also opportunities to give back to the wider community through volunteering and outreach.
Durham Student Theatre enjoys partnerships with several local schools, where student volunteers run drama workshops, and help the children put together their end of term plays.
Castle Theatre Company's 2023 tour of William Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's Dream.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities/sports:
Sport at Durham inspires the extraordinary, it always has done and that's why our alumni include Gabby Logan, Jonathan Edwards, Will Carling, Sophie Hosking and Caroline Atkins.
Sport is at the core of Durham student life, and a huge range of sporting opportunities is available.
From joining college teams to competing at University level and beyond, we offer exceptional opportunities to get involved.
The University awards approximately 12 sporting scholarships per year which entitle the chosen athletes to £2,000 on an annual basis throughout their undergraduate career.
Sport at Durham is built on teamwork: we grow leaders, and we are stronger because of our partnerships.
Sport is for everyone.
We help our students try new things, to uncover their talents, to make a difference to those around them, to be fit and healthy and be the best that they can be.
That is why we hope that you will be interested to know more about Durham University Sport.
We find it easy to be proud of the extraordinary people we have at Durham.
Through sport we offer the inspiration, they achieve the outstanding.
Our approach has three pillars Performance , Participation and Community .
We are Britain's top Team Sport University (ranked Number 1 in the UK by the National Governing Body of University Sport - BUCS, since 2013) and support over 50 capped internationals per year.
Our sporting philosophy is to provide opportunities for exceptional people to do exceptional things, and few universities so successfully and consistently combine sporting and academic excellence.
Durham enjoys British Rowing Performance Centre status, First Class County Cricket status, British Fencing Centre status, Tennis Foundation University Performance Centre status, and English Lacrosse High-Performance University status.
Our teams also compete in the England Hockey National Leagues, the British Basketball League and the FS Women's Superleague.
We co-ordinate one of Britain's largest participation programmes with over 75% of our students engaged in sport and physical activity.
This is because sport at Durham embraces all levels of skill.
Our unique college structure offers many opportunities for you to participate in 18 sports across 700 different teams , on a weekly basis, making it the largest internal sports programme in Britain.
This not only helps to keep you active and healthy, but it also provides social opportunities and a sense of belonging that can be particularly important in the early days when you are settling in at University.
Over 2,700 community users access our facilities each week, working directly with student clubs and volunteers.
We focus on making sport accessible, we provide access to a wide range of opportunities, all of which create a valuable and real-life experience in a setting where you can make a difference.
Our extensive Community Sports Development Programme offers coaching and outreach activities to schools and community groups.
We also take part in National Governing Body officiating courses, developing your skills so you can go on to coach outside of the University and even on to a professional coaching career.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities/volunteering:
Here at Durham University we actively encourage and support our staff and students to volunteer across our local community.
Working with a wide range of community partners, our volunteering programme directly responds to local community needs, aligning volunteer projects and opportunities to help enhance our partners work.
Thousands of Durham students are volunteering in the wider community.
Students can choose to volunteer through college projects, department initiatives, societies, Team Durham Community and Durham University Student Volunteering and Outreach (DUSVO).
DUSVO boasts between 20 - 30 student-led community projects, supporting numerous initiatives and partners across our 5 key themes.
It is easy to volunteer; whether you are looking for a 'one off' event or a project, all opportunities can be found online and all relevant training is provided.
In return for giving your time, you will get to learn new skills, meet new people and make new friends whilst supporting the wider community.
And if you're interested in working with a community further afield, you might want to take the opportunity to get involved in the Volunteer Zambia project.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities/esports:
Esports has found a home at Durham University and is now a key part of the Wider Student Experience
Keep up to date with the esports events that Durham has to offer and come along!
At the very heart of esports at Durham is our esports team, represented by Durham University Esports and Gaming (DUEG)
From their beginnings as a society, they have undergone significant growth since their inception and are now included as a part of Team Durham.
Our students participate in several national esports leagues all year long which covers 12 games, including Valorant, League of Legends and CS:GO and have had significant success as a result.
As a pivotal part of the new university esports strategy, DUEG's primary objective allows students to take part in regular team based, online competitions to build relationships, teamwork and soft skills.
The community is also a highly energetic, fun place to be.
Click to see our recent results in the NSE and to find out more information about the teams.
New for 2024!
Did you know we now have our own Esports facility?
Located at Maiden Castle, the hub was created to allow students to practice and play together in a social environment!
We are proud to be in a position to forge valuable partnerships within the esports industry, allowing for creative collaboration opportunities and to strengthen the links between higher education and esports.
To support the esports strategy, the Esports Advisory Board was established.
Consisting of senior staff, academics, industry professionals and exec DUEG members, the board meets quarterly to discuss the development of the strategy and improvements of the esports service at Durham.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities/media-durham:
Across the university, a wide range of extracurricular student led media activities are available, ran by an ever-increasing number of societies.
Media activity across the university is student-led, with support from Media Durham and the Durham Students’ Union.
Close ties with Music, Theatre, Tech, Sport and Volunteering provide many opportunities for collaborative projects.
Many skills developed through media training are transferable to other societies, for example, creating trailers, taking headshots, and recording performances.
Outside of your university experience, the knowledge you acquire can help kickstart a career in media industries.
Notable alumni in front of the camera include George Alagiah (Presenter of BBC News at 6), Charlotte Riley (Actor in Wuthering Heights and Easy Virtue) and Jeremy Vine (BBC Radio and Television presenter).
Plenty of Durham graduates also play important roles behind the scenes, such as journalists, correspondents, screen writers, producers and directors.
Getting involved with no experience or equipment is actively encouraged.
Media Durham offers free equipment hire and through societies there is plenty of training available for those who have not yet had an opportunity to pick up a camera or microphone, write a script or direct a short film.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities/laidlaw-programme:
The Laidlaw Leadership and Research Programme aims to develop and invest in highly talented and motivated undergraduate students, giving them knowledge, skills and experience to become active global citizens and strong next-generation leaders.
The programme uniquely funds up to 25 places annually, to undergraduate students in Durham each year, supporting a research project and a Leadership in Action experience.
Scholars are supported by a generous stipend of up to £6000 (£3,000 per summer) to enable them to participate in two 6-week summer periods, a bespoke training programme, an annual conference, global networking, and a certificate in ethical leadership.
There are 5 core components to the programme:
This takes place over approximately six weeks during summer one.
Working with an academic supervisor and/or an experienced research team, scholars develop their abilities in investigative study, analysis, problem-solving and data management.
Scholars begin their Laidlaw experience with a leadership training retreat.
In a group, immersive environment, they discover their own innate leadership preferences, learn core leadership attributes, explore leadership values and develop their leadership skills through exercises and applied learning.
Their leadership development continues through the academic year, after their research summer, with guest speakers, coaching and more.
The second Scholarship summer involves a leadership-in-action project.
This is an opportunity for Scholars to either practically implement their research from the previous summer, propose their project in partnership with an NGO/non-profit organisation, or participate in one of the centrally organised opportunities that the Laidlaw Foundation offers.
At the core of the leadership in action project is the aim to actively collaborate with community partners, develop leadership skills, and to reflect on how Scholars intend to continue to do so in the future – far beyond the Scholarship – when they take up their positions as tomorrow’s leaders.
The key components of the leadership in action project include:
Further information is available via the Laidlaw Foundation .
Scholars join a global network of fellow Laidlaw Scholars.
This online community provides a dedicated space for scholars to contribute and collaborate.
Undergraduate scholars publish their research here, can test their thinking, partner on projects and continue their leadership development.
Ethical Leadership Certificate in partnership with the Oxford Character Project
S cholars will participate in six virtual workshops, in addition to an in-person training that will be delivered at the Annual Laidlaw Scholars Conference.
The workshops and training sessions will cover a wide range of topics focusing on character qualities that are essential for becoming ethical leaders, such as purpose, growth, love, integrity, and practical wisdom.
At the end of each workshop, there will be an ethical leadership challenge for the Scholars to practice what they have learned and exchange ideas with their fellow Scholars.
After completing the programme, the scholars will receive certificates and access to additional resources that will help them to integrate various aspects of ethical leadership into their lives.
All scholars will undertake one research project where they will develop, pursue and report on a research question supported by an academic supervisor.
This project will either be defined by the scholar giving them the opportunity to explore a research area which they are passionate about or chosen from a list of pre-defined projects from leading academics within the university.
In addition there will be a small number of opportunities offered through the central foundation working on bespoke projects with carefully curated partners.
These projects will encompass both the summer one research project and summer two Leadership in Action experience.
Research projects may be conducted internationally.
Scholars will have the opportunity to apply their leadership skills in challenging international environments, through an immersive bespoke, 6-week, Leadership in Action experience.
Expanding their cultural awareness, Scholars will work on projects that will benefit wider communities in finding solutions and tackling real problems.
Through this action-based learning, scholars will be encouraged to take on new challenges and further develop such skills as; strategy, planning, execution, communication, influencing, teamwork, resilience and being a global citizen.
Leadership in Action projects may take place locally if research is conducted internationally in the first summer.
We aim to create an international network of diverse, passionate and ethical leaders who will reinvest their skills, knowledge and experience to help others succeed.
Find a supervisor, connect with peers, network with alumni and engage with the Laidlaw community.
These options may need to be adjusted to adapt to remote working restrictions:
All experiences will have clear goals and outputs specified.
They must also adhere to the Foundation LiA criteria that allow the scholar to:
All aspects of the leadership training programme are compulsory – and initially, scholars will need to commit to being available for a leadership training programme delivered before their first summer research period, taking place mid-June.
Laidlaw Scholars will represent both Durham University and the Laidlaw Foundation and will be expected to take on ambassadorial duties as part of their commitment.
These include supporting and mentoring younger scholars or perhaps delivering a talk at a conference/ event, and will also include helping with the promotion of the programme to future cohorts.
Applications for the Laidlaw Scholars programme at Durham open in November each year with a deadline for submission in Epiphany Term.
Durham University undergraduate students must be in their first year of a three-year degree or the first or second year of a four-year degree to apply for the Laidlaw Scholarship.
There are no restrictions on discipline, division, nationality or fee status.
For more information please watch our short information video

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities/durham-leadership-framework:
Think Tanks are a space for students that encourages a forum of discussion and networking on current issues, sharing views and insights.
The topic for our 2025 Global Week Think Tank will be 'Lessons in Leadership: Argue like you are right, listen like you are wrong', hosted by Saul Betmead de Chasteigner, Associate Fellow, Saïd Business School, University of Oxford.
This session will be an exploration of leadership through the lens of cognitive biases and the importance of asking difficult questions.
Within this session, attendees will learn about aspects of negotiation and considerations on how to negotiate within cross-cultural settings.
A comprehensive introduction to responsible and accountable value-based leadership open to all students.
Online: Online programme of engaging tutorials and quizzes via our SharePoint .
In-person: Training day with the uniformed services and workshops on leadership skills with industry experts.
Bespoke Programme: If you are a college or student group, we can facilitate tailored leadership training.
Please contact us .
The Leadership Academy has been curated for student leaders who aspire to shape their team, community and University as the leaders of tomorrow!
Unlock your full leadership potential through the Durham University Leadership Academy.
A transformative and highly competitive, one-year programme designed to support you in your leadership role whilst at university as you develop key leadership networks and competencies through our programme of events and collaborative networking and mentoring opportunities.
To learn more about how you can take your leadership development to the next level please visit our Leadership Academy SharePoint site .
A bank of online resources introducing concepts of leadership on our SharePoint account.
Bite-sized introduction to concepts of leadership.
Self-directed learning.
Alongside our programmes, we host discussion forums for students, to engage and share leadership concepts.
We offer a diverse selection of courses from leaders of various industries and cultural establishments who are alumni or partners.
These are delivered virtually as short presentations followed by interactive discussions and questions.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/life-in-durham:
We like to think we combine the best of many worlds here in Durham University.
Durham is a truly beautiful city, where the famous Castle and Cathedral - together designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site - dominate the skyline.
With a population of around 43,000 Durham has a compact, friendly feel but still provides the facilities you would expect of a thriving city including a number of cafés, bars and restaurants, and an array of popular high-street shops.
If you want a taste of the urban, Durham is only ten minutes away from Newcastle by train, with a regular rail service linking the cities.
In Newcastle you'll find a wide range of choices for entertainment, culture and shopping.
And when your inclination turns to something a bit quieter, t here are numerous castles, walks, cycle routes and beaches all within easy reach of Durham City.
The open spaces of Northumberland and the North York Moors, and the seaside beaches from Sunderland to South Shields , provide ideal locations for exploring further .
Here are some links to resources you may find useful, to tell you more about the areas around the University.
Find out more about what really interests our students.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/welcome-and-orientation/new-undergraduate-uk-students:
Welcome to Durham!
We’re delighted to welcome you and want to do everything we can to make your arrival as smooth and as memorable as possible.
Here you can find links to all the information you need to know about your arrival at University, what you need to do in your first few days, and useful information to help you settle into student life as quickly as possible.
Use the links below to find out everything you need to know as a new student.
Return to our main welcome pages for new students

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/welcome-and-orientation/new-international-students:
Here you can find links to all the information you need to know about your arrival into the UK and to University, what you need to do in your first few days, and useful information to help you settle into student life as quickly as possible.
Use the links below to find out everything you need to know as a new international student.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/welcome-and-orientation/new-postgraduate-taught-uk-students:
Here you can find links to all the information you need to know about your arrival at University, what you need to do in your first few days, and useful information to help you settle into postgraduate life as quickly as possible.
Use the links below to find out everything you need to know as a new postgraduate student.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/welcome-and-orientation/ug-uk-before-you-arrive:
There are lots of things you can do to get a head start on student life before you arrive!
Here are the key tasks to complete so you're ready to study, live and socialise as a Durham student:
To make the transition to university as smooth as possible, we’ve worked with students to create an online pre-arrival course for you to complete.
Use our virtual learning environment, Learn Ultra, to try out some valuable academic skills and to become familiar with our commonly-used digital tools.
There are a number of different ways you can get to know more about your department before you arrive, including looking at our welcome webpages, logging in to Learn Ultra and visiting the Learn Ultra induction site for your programme.
Your College is waiting to welcome you, visit their Welcome webpages to find out more.
Your College will contact you directly with more information.
Once you are enrolled, you get access to a range of digital services such as your university email account, FREE Microsoft 365 and Office subscription, plus a range of teaching and learning apps to help you with your studies.
View the interactive pdf and video

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/student-support-and-wellbeing/medical-registration-and-advice:
One of your top priorities is to register with doctors at a local medical practice so that you can access healthcare in Durham when you need it.
This is especially important if you have an ongoing health condition or require repeat medication.
Your choice of medical practice will be determined by the area in which you live.
The practice area of the Claypath and University Medical Group covers the University and the Colleges, and the majority of our students register with this practice.
Claypath and University Medical Group,
University Health Centre, 
Green Lane, Old Elvet,
Durham DH1 3JX.
Tel: 0191 386 5081
All new students can pre-register online with the Claypath and University Medical Group before arrival by completing the pre-registration form linked here .
Current students who are already in Durham can register online with the Claypath and University Medical Group by completing the registration form linked here .
If you pre-register, then registration with the Claypath and University Medical Group will happen automatically by the end of September.
Other registration with a UK medical practice will continue until then.
If this is your first time registering with a UK medical practice you can still pre-register.
The pre-registration form asks whether you have an NHS number or not.
You will only have a number if you have previously registered with a doctor in the UK, but you can still complete this online pre-registration if you are an overseas student and don’t already have an NHS number.
Completing the pre-registration form before you arrive in Durham enables the Claypath and University Medical Group to prepare to support you and be aware of any current medical issues.
There are other medical practices in Durham that you may want to consider.
A full list with locations can be found linked here .
Registration with practices other than the Claypath and University Medical Group is not available before arrival in Durham.
Starting at Durham can be a busy and exciting time so, if you have a long-term medical condition and require medication, we recommend bringing sufficient medicines to last for the first couple of months of your time here.
Please ensure that your vaccinations are up to date before arriving in Durham.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/student-support-and-wellbeing/vaccinations:
Before coming to university please ensure that your vaccinations are up to date.
We recommend that you consult your current doctor to check if you have had the vaccines below and, if you have not, arrange to receive them before you arrive in Durham.
If you are unable to receive any of these vaccinations before travelling to university, seek advice about accessing vaccinations from your chosen medical practice in Durham as soon as possible after arrival.
For information on registering with a medical practice in Durham see Medical Registration and Advice click here.
It is extremely important that all students have had a vaccination to prevent meningitis and septicaemia, which can be deadly.
Please ensure you have received the MenACWY vaccine which is highly effective in preventing illness caused by the four meningococcal strains, including the Men W strain.
In recent years there has been an increase in cases of measles and mumps in students at universities.
Please check that you have had the necessary two doses of the combined MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccination.
Tuberculosis is an infection that usually affects the lungs.
It can be treated with antibiotics but can be serious if not treated.
There's a vaccine that helps protect some people who are at risk from TB.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/additional-charges:
Durham is a proudly collegiate university and, as a Durham student, you are or will become a member of a college.
Your college will be the hub of your non-academic life and each college offers access to many exciting student-led opportunities, from managing sports teams and organising social events, to representing your fellow students.
By participating in this way, you can influence and deliver the activities and events within your college and across the University community.
Every college has a representative bodies of students.
For undergraduates, there is the Junior Common Room (JCR), and for postgraduates, there is the Middle Common Room (MCR).
Other names used include a Student Representative Council (SRC), or a Graduate Common Room (GCR).
These student-led bodies organise many of the events, societies, sports, and other activities within our colleges.
Common Rooms are led by an elected body of voluntary student officers, including an Executive Committee.
Through the Common Rooms, student life at Durham is shaped by the students themselves.
To help fund the organisation and activities that Common Rooms provide, all students are asked to become a member of the appropriate College Common Room.
Joining your Common Room means that you have the opportunity to play a full part in the life of your college community.
In addition to Common Room membership, many Colleges have additional facilities and services that can enhance your experience at Durham.
Colleges ask their students to contribute to these services and facilities by making a donation; this varies across colleges depending on the service or facility offered.
Alongside the Colleges, there are also opportunities in Sport, Music and Theatre available across the University via Experience Durham and through the many and varied societies of the Students' Union.
There may be some additional charges involved in becoming a member of teams and societies and this page provides information on and links to these charges.
It is important to point out that you have to opt-in to pay Common Room membership and other charges.
If you choose not to opt-in, some services and facilities in your college, and those provided by the Common Rooms, may not be available to you and you will not be able to participate in Common Room elections.
Your College and Common Room can give you more information on this.
Some Colleges have integrated common rooms - see below for full details.
College
JCR Levy (3 Years)
JCR Levy (4 Years)
£165
*
£135
£195
£235 (or £195 if taking year out)
£220
£160
£146
£190
£200
£90
£120
£172.50
£95
£115
£170
£225
£140
£185
£240
*Same as JCR 3 Year Levy
MCR Levy
£53.50
£50
£40
£38
Please note: South College does not have a separate Middle Common Room and its p ostgraduate students sit under the Junior Common Room (JCR).
The levy listed here is the JCR levy for postgraduates.
£30
Combined with SCR £10
£35
£57.50
£45
£31
£65
University College (Full-Time)
University College (Part-Time)
£135 for Undergraduate and Foundation students.
Payable in your first year and lasting for the length of your undergraduate degree.
This contributes to the day-to-day running of the JCR, subsidising JCR services.
If you wish to take part in any JCR events (including joining sports teams and societies) or to use their facilities, you must pay this charge.
The JCR Levy (membership fee) is £60per year, and on joining, you’ll be a member of a community of over 1,000 students.
Most students opt to pay for the duration of their degree at the start of their studies (e.g.
£165 for a 3-year BSc/BA, etc.).
The JCR is run by students for students, and whilst JCR membership is optional, we strongly encourage all students to join to make the most of their time at Durham.
The levy goes towards subsidising the running of the JCR and its activities.
Through participation in sports and societies, students get to know many people from across the College.
The JCR organises most of the student life in College and allows members to:
One Year - £60
Three Year - £180
Four Year - £225
£53 (new)
£25 (second-hand)
Free (levy paid)
£40 (non-levy paid)
At John Snow College, the Junior Common Room is a student-led organisation, charged with creating your student experience from the day you move in, to the day you leave as a Graduate of Durham University!
In order to create your student experience and cover our costs of running events, sports and societies we charge a one-off optional fee of £145 when you arrive, which covers you for your entire time at John Snow College.
Opting into the JCR entitles you to a huge variety of perks.
These include priority access and member rates to college events, including College Balls and our College Day as well as eligibility to participate in our College sports and societies.
Being a member also allows you to shape how college life is run, by being able to vote at student councils, and being eligible to run for student officer elections.
We like to think of it as covering your costs in advance, and even with a relatively low level of participation, our students find that they have saved the money back from the member perks.
Being a JCR member also entitles you to access to our development initiatives, such as our generous Student Development Fund which funds members to travel all over the world taking part in exciting career and personal development programmes.
Participation in the JCR is hugely popular and we find the majority remain opted in.
More information is available on our website or you can email us .
John Snow College is a gowned college.
Gowns are worn to formal dinners and to University matriculation.
Gowns are provided by the JCR at the costs on the left.
£53 (levy paid)
£60 (non-levy paid)
£28 (second-hand)
For those attending formals and College dinners, appropriate formal dress is required.
This means, if wearing a suit, a tie is essential.
We strongly recommend the John Snow College Tie as a proud way to show your membership in the College community.
£12.50 (non-levy paid)
If wearing a dress, the College pin is an important part of the formal dress code.
The enamelled metal pin should be worn on the left side of your gown and is expected at formal dinners.
These items are necessary elements of the College's formal wear tradition, and help to create a sense of unity and belonging at our formal events.
£3 (non-levy paid)
£75 (levy paid)
£130 (non-levy paid)
Membership of the JCR is a unique element of Durham University life, creating a fund which helps us put on our amazing events throughout the year, including Freshers’ Week, Fashion Show and our annual Summer Ball.
It also helps fund our groups and campaigns, such as buying in equipment for sports and societies, and helping towards welfare campaigns.
This fund also helps improve the experience of those living outside of college.
It is a one-off payment for a three-year UG programme.
We ask that you pay this charge to ensure that we can keep producing these great events and that we are able to provide for all the sports, societies, and committees that you would like the join throughout your entire time at the college.
If you do not wish to pay, you will be asked to pay a premium for events and to join sports, societies, and committees.
There are also some events which are restricted, and priority will be given to JCR members.
The JCR makes your college experience truly memorable, so #GetInvolved and be part of something special.
This confers membership of the College Association for life.
This fund also includes support for running and stocking the College Library (with many course texts and a laptop loan system) and support for members to bid for assets, development projects and opportunities.
The fund is overseen by the College Trust Board, with a majority independent membership and representation from the common rooms.
Long description
Charge
Junior Common Room (JCR) Levy for undergraduates - 3 Years
The JCR membership fee for undergraduates is a one-off payment of £150 for the duration of your course.
For postgraduates, the fee is £50.
While JCR membership is optional, we strongly encourage all members of South to join to make the most of your time at Durham.
The fee goes towards the running of the JCR, its sports teams, societies, activities, events, and more.
By paying your fee, you will be providing the student body with funds to deliver activities and as a JCR member you will be able to participate in College clubs and societies, as well as opportunities to engage in available leadership positions within the JCR.
The JCR membership also provides subsidised tickets for events and activities which require an additional fee.
Please note that there could be additional fees for joining clubs and societies.
Postgraduate and Integrated Masters students are required to pay the appropriate JCR levy at the beginning of each year of your postgraduate course, or at the beginning of your fourth year of an Integrated Masters.
If you are unable to pay the upfront cost of the JCR membership fee, there are a number of bursaries and funds provided by the College to help.
This includes the JCR Levy Fund, which pays directly for JCR membership of recipients.
Please note: if you are on an exchange to South College, please choose the levy that reflects how many terms you will spend with us.
Junior Common Room (JCR) Levy for postgraduates
£30 per year
Junior Common Room (JCR) Levy - Exchange / Erasmus / Turing students
£15 (1 term)
£30 (2 terms)
£45 (3 terms)
Gym
The Mount Oswald Gym is the largest College gym in the University with new state of the art equipment for all fitness and gym-going levels.
It is managed by the South and John Snow JCRs and Colleges and is accessible to those members of the College who opt to join and complete the necessary Health and Safety requirements.
All gym membership fees are reinvested into the gym for essential maintenance and the replacement of equipment.
Academic Gown
South College is gowned, meaning gowns are worn to Matriculation and Formal Dinners.
Matriculation is a ceremony to welcome you to the University community, and formal dinners are a communal dining experience which take place regularly throughout the year.
Many South students choose to buy their own gown, but there is no requirement to do so.
Please note, South JCR has a small number of gowns that can be rented for occasions that require the wearing of a gown.
£50 (levy paid)
Tie
The College tie features the College crest and is one way to display your College pride.
There are two options:
100% silk:
£15 (levy paid)
£18 (non-levy paid)
Polyester:
£9 (levy paid)
£12 (non-levy paid)
Pin
The College pin is an enamelled metal pin displaying the College crest.
We highly encourage you to wear your pin on your gown at formal dinners.
It is traditionally worn on the left side of the gown opening, however at South we suggest you wear it however you wish.
£2 (non-levy paid)
Welcome Week Charge
Start your time off at Durham with a bang with South Welcome Week!
We have a variety of events prepared for you, in College and around Durham City.
The welcome week charge includes access to all internal events, external events, a wristband, and a t-shirt.
£20 (levy paid)
£25 (non-levy paid)
Annual Gym Membership (JCR Member)
Walker Gym Pass
Howlands Gym Pass
Combined Walker and Howlands Gym Pass
£60
Annual Gym Membership (Non-JCR)
£80
£100
MCR - 1 Year
Common Rooms are run by elected students who form the Executive Committee together with the elected Non-Executive officers and their committees.
They are run by students for students to enhance your experience at university and to ensure there is a calendar of events, sports, societies, student welfare and other opportunities to get involved.
The Levy is a one-off payment to become a member of the JCR/MCR.
Membership allows you to run for positions, vote in elections and participate in committees, ensuring you have the opportunity to contribute to and shape the student community.
There are over the course of the year activities carrying additional costs, for example, the Summer Ball, and facilities such as the on-site gym.
JCR/MCR members benefit from a significant discount (up to 50% off) on charges for these.
JCR - 1 Year
£70
JCR/MCR - 3 Years (if paid at once)
JCR/MCR - 4 Years (if paid at once)
Bedding pack
This pack includes:
Kitchen pack
£52.74
Dining pack
1 x White Ceramic Dinner Plate
1 x White Ceramic Side Plate
1 x White Ceramic Cereal Bowl
1 x White Ceramic Mug
1 x Glass Tumbler
1 x Table Knife
1 x Table Fork
1 x Dessert Spoon
1 x Teaspoon
£9.38
JCR - Undergraduate Levy
Aidan’s JCR is an independent charity registered common room ran by Undergraduates and an elected Sabbatical JCR President.
This common room is for our undergraduate student body.
Providing a huge number of social and extracurricular opportunities.
The levy crucially contributes to the overall running of the JCR and the activities the JCR delivers.
Linen pack
This pack includes: 1 pillow, 1 pillowcase, 1 duvet, 1 duvet cover and 1 sheet.
SCR Joint Member Fee
The SCR offers joint subscriptions for those who wish to sign both themselves, and their partner up to the SCR.
Both partners receive the same benefits as described under 'SCR Member Fee'.
£20
SCR Membership Fee
Aidan’s SCR is a common room made up of postgraduate students, PhD students, post-dr’s, DU staff and the local community.
Unique to Durham, the SCR is run by dedicated students and staff volunteers who advocate and represent the voice of our postgraduates and local community.
Offering and hosting a variety of events, lectures, and community outings throughout the year.
Their membership doesn’t just include Aidan’s events, the Aidan’s SCR has set up a collaborative network within Durham and other Colleges' MCRs and SCRs.
£10
St Aidan's Association
Provides for graduates to enjoy life membership of the Alumni Association of St Aidan's College.
£25
For information on additional charges, please visit the St Chad's College website .
JCR
Over 90% of students at St Cuthbert’s Society are members of the JCR, which is a 1,400 strong student body.
The JCR at St Cuthbert's Society represents both undergraduates and postgraduates.
We have a dedicated Postgraduate and Mature Students' Committee and President who run events specifically aimed at Postgraduate students.
Everything that Cuth's JCR offers is only available to its members who opt to join the JCR.
We provide over 40 different sports and societies and a variety of facilities including two gyms, a music room, and we run our own College library.
We also provide social events and regular activities, ranging from Freshers' Week itself, through to termly balls and our annual College Day - a music and food festival that is one of the largest events on the Bailey.
As an independent charity we have over a hundred volunteer positions available to students, from welfare, through to fundraising and volunteering, tech, finances, and more.
The JCR is 'by students, for students'.
But even if you choose not to get involved in this way, as a JCR member you can still take advantage of all of the opportunities that it gives you.
We provide many of the extracurricular opportunities that makes being in Cuth's such a fantastic and unforgettable experience.
Don't miss out!
If you would like to find out more information, please visit our JCR website at cuths.com or email president@cuths.com
You may purchase a bedding pack.
The pack comprises a duvet, duvet cover, pillow, pillow case and a sheet.
Association Charge
Alumni Association fee.
The membership fee is for life-time membership.
See College Fees and Charges for further details.
SRC - Postgraduate
Student Representative Council fee.
£55 per year
SRC - Undergraduate
SRC - Foundation / Erasmus / Exchange
Gym membership (SRC members)
Access to the college gym for the academic year.
Gym membership (non-SRC members)
SJCR membership
Details of membership:
£165 (3-year course)
£220 (4-year course)
College Gym membership
Access to the College gym and fitness rooms (induction necessary).
£50 per year
Required at our formal dinners, matriculation and SJCR meetings.
£50 (new)
£35 (second-hand)
Room Damage Deposit
Included in first term’s accommodation invoice.
Returned at end of academic year subject to satisfactory check of your room and the common areas on your floor/corridor.
£100 refundable deposit
Linen Pack Purchase (College residents only)
Contains 1 sheet, 1 duvet cover, 2 pillowcases, 1 bath towel & 1 hand towel.
Pack will be delivered to the room.
£40 Single bed
£45 Double bed
Middle Common Room (MCR) membership
Access to our dedicated Postgraduate Centre:
£45 per year
St John’s Boat Club membership
Email St John’s Boat Club for details.
£35 per term (competitive)
£20 per term (social/casual)
Junior Common Room (JCR) Levy
Payable by undergraduate students in their first year of study, this subscription contributes to the day-to-day running of the JCR.
The JCR is a student-led organisation that really can enhance the experience of being a student at Durham.
The JCR organises a wide range of social events in College that are highlights of the student calendar.
They also organise and run all College sport and societies, which cover a wide range of extra-curricular opportunities including art, music, drama, politics, volunteering and other individual interests.
It’s hard to convey just how vibrant the JCR is at St Mary’s College and the opportunities it provides to students to make friends with people from all years of study and all disciplines, and to get involved at whatever level feels right for them.
Students are members of their JCR for the duration of their studies and the subscription subsidises the cost of social activities organised by the JCR, the running of the College sports clubs and societies, as well as helping to maintain JCR facilities.
If you wish to take part in any JCR activities, use their facilities, stand for an elected position, or vote, then you must be a member of the Common Room.
£95 (3-year course)
£115 (4-year course)
Middle Common Room (MCR) Levy
The MCR is the Common Room for postgraduate students, mature undergraduate students, and for undergraduates in their fourth year of study.
Like the JCR, the MCR is a student-led organisation that is designed to enhance the experience of its members whilst at Durham.
Payment of the MCR subscription provides access to JCR clubs and societies, to events organised by both the MCR and JCR, and to the dedicated space for the MCR and its facilities.
It also allows members to stand for positions in the MCR and to vote in MCR elections.
£31 (1 year)
Gym Membership
The College has a gym, managed by the JCR, which is made accessible to those members of the College who opt to join and pay and complete the necessary Health and Safety requirements
£20 per year
St Mary’s is a ‘gowned’ College, which means we wear gowns at Formal Dinners.
These dinners take place approximately three times a term and are popular events.
Gowns are also worn at Matriculation, the University event where students are formally admitted to the University.
Many of our students choose to buy their own gown (new or second-hand), but there is no requirement to do so.
The Common Rooms have a small number of gowns that can be hired for occasions that require the wearing of a gown.
Library Contribution
An optional College Library contribution of £30 for three-year undergraduates, £40 for students who will spend four years in Durham, and £10 per year of attendance for postgraduates (and one-year undergraduates).
£30/£40/£10
Junior Common Room (JCR) Levy for Exchange and Erasmus students
JCR dues (membership of the undergraduate common room) are charged in the first year only.
This payment will cover your whole time in Trevelyan.
Only common room members will be able to play sport, engage in societies and join in JCR events and elections.
£46.66
MCR dues are charged each year at the rate of £35.
MCR Dues are paid to help run all of our college activities.
By opting in you can join any of the college societies, teams, and clubs of the JCR (see above) and MCR; run in, and vote on, MCR elections; attend all of the college formals; and many more things throughout the year.
The College has a gym, managed by the JCR, which is made accessible to those members of the College who opt to join and pay and complete the necessary Health and Safety requirements.
Annual gym membership for JCR members - £50
Annual gym membership for non-JCR members - £160
Trevelyan College is a gowned college.
We wear gowns to formal dinners and to University matriculation.
Gowns are provided by the JCR at the cost on the left and can be sold back to the JCR at the end of your degree.
£57 (new)
£37 (second-hand)
Linen Pack
Bed linen pack containing duvet, duvet cover, pillow, pillowcase and sheets (International Students only).
Society Subscriptions
A subscription charge may apply in some JCR Societies
Variable
JCR 3-Year membership
All University College undergraduate students are warmly invited to join the JCR (Junior Common Room), University College's undergraduate community for undergraduates studying here for three or four-year courses.
A one-off payment at the beginning of the course covers the full period of study.
JCR 4-Year membership
JCR 1 Year for Exchange or Erasmus Students
MCR membership (full-time PG students)
Membership to our MCR will unlock a whole range of events and opportunities which will enrich your Durham experience.
MCR membership (part-time PG students)
Part-time/ Affiliate / ERASMUS students - Membership to our MCR will unlock a whole range of events and opportunities which will enrich your Durham experience.
Freshers' Pack and entrance to Freshers week (for undergraduates only)
The Freshers’ Pack is a package that helps new students settle in and grants them entry to all JCR-organised events from their arrival to the Friday of Induction Week.
The opportunity to purchase this, as well as a timetable of events, will be released via email just before arrival.
Academic Gown (undergraduates)
Gowns are an important part of the history of University College, dating back to its founding in 1832.
They are worn at formal events throughout the year and at Matriculation during Induction Week.
£55 (new)
These packs can be purchased by undergraduates/postgraduates who will be living in College accommodation and can be collected upon arrival following the payment of this charge.
Graduate Common Room Levy
Ustinov Graduate Common Room (GCR) is a group made up of students and alumni, representing Durham University’s postgraduate community.
The GCR is run by a committee of students and elections are held several times a year.
We are also a registered charity.
Our main aims are providing support to our students and running a social calendar for our members and other postgraduates.
The majority of our funding comes from the GCR levy, a small charge (one of the cheapest in the University) which gets you membership of the GCR.
This gets you the ability to run and vote in our elections as well as discounted access to many of our events and facilities.
This includes the Ustinov gym and music room as well as trips, formals, karaoke, parties and live music nights.
We want to make your time at Ustinov one of the most memorable periods of your life!
Freshers' Week wristbands
Erasmus / Exchange Common room 1 term
Membership of the appropriate Common Room, JCR or MCR, for the duration of your studies at Van Mildert College.
£18
Erasmus / Exchange Common room 2 terms
£36
Erasmus / Exchange Common room 3 terms
£54
The JCR Levy (membership fee) contributes to the everyday running of the Junior Common Room and lasts for your whole time as an undergraduate.
By being part of the JCR, you are becoming a part of a community of over 1000 students, and it entitles you to take part in our events, sports and societies.
The levy goes towards subsidising these activities, from Formals to Freshers’ week and more, meaning you can get involved in all the JCR has to offer.
Opting out of the levy means you will not be entitled to take part in these activities.
The MCR membership fee lasts for one academic year.
It provides you with membership of the MCR, which is a community of over 200 postgraduate students, all of whom are members of Van Mildert College.
It also entitles you to membership of the JCR and SCR.
As a result of opting into this charge you are able to participate, as a postgraduate student, in all events, sports and societies run by the JCR, MCR or SCR.
The MCR membership fee is used to subsidise a range of activities in College.
Opting out of the charge means that you will not be entitled to take part in these activities or will be subject to an additional charge per event where non-members are invited.
Gym membership
1 Year - Gym membership (undergraduate and postgraduate)
3 Year - Gym membership (undergraduate and postgraduate)
Teikyo students - Gym membership
Bedding packs contain a duvet, duvet cover, pillow, pillowcase and fitted sheet.
Van Mildert Association membership
Payment of this one-off charge offers lifetime membership of the Van Mildert Association, the alumni association of Van Mildert College.
The association offers current students access to a network of alumni who provide career mentorship and support, engagement with College life through the provision of vital scholarships and bursaries.
Alongside this, the association organises reunion events for current and former students throughout the year across the UK and overseas.
It has a membership of many thousands of former students, many of whom remain in contact with the College long after graduation.
The VMA is an independent organisation to which membership fees will be transferred.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/enrichment-activities/durham-leadership-framework/mentoring-opportunities:
The Leadership Academy provides the opportunity for senior global leaders and alumni to invest in some of our most accomplished student leaders, providing 1:1 support to aid their personal, professional and leadership development across the academic year.
The Leadership Academy takes pride in fostering a strong culture of community amongst our students both past and present.
Mentors receive monthly newsletters related to our programme of events and an invitation to attend our networking events, hosted in both London and Durham.
We aim to keep mentors connected and maintain a strong sense of community throughout their journey with us.
Community Engagement: Mentoring provides an opportunity to invest back into Durham, creating a direct link to the University.
There are plenty of opportunities across the year to get involved in the programme's speaker series, networking events, workshops and Think Tanks.
Networking opportunities: Our mentors are part of a growing alumni and partner network at Durham, providing opportunities for mentors to connect with other alumni and senior global leaders mentoring on the programme.
We host in-person networking events in London and Durham and host several speaker series and think tanks virtually.
Providing everyone with the opportunity to get involved.
Reciprocal Learning and Development/New Perspectives: While the Academy is primarily designed to support our students, mentors often report gaining benefits from their partnerships too.
The programme provides an opportunity for mentors to gain fresh insights and perspectives from their mentees.
Understanding student experiences, challenges, and viewpoints can contribute to our mentors' growth and development.
Developing the leaders of tomorrow: Mentoring provides a unique opportunity for mentors to shape the future by imparting their knowledge, skills, and values to the leaders of tomorrow.
This not only contributes to the growth of the mentee but also gives the mentor a sense of fulfilment and purpose.
The Leadership Academy mentoring falls into three main areas of support:
Invest back into the community that helped to shape you through inspiring, empowering and shaping the next leaders of tomorrow.
Mentor Interest Form
Mentors provide support to mentees across a number of key areas, including personal growth as a responsible and ethical member of the Durham University community, developing as a student leader, and preparing for a career after leaving Durham.
As part of the Leadership Academy, we host a number of talks throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/st-hild-st-bede:
300 (all Undergraduate rooms at Hild & Bede are ensuite)
Coming to University is a life-changing event.
Hild Bede will share your excitement and feed your confidence to seize the opportunity to learn and to grow and to develop.
Our unique history, our distinctive locations, and global community of present and past members helps to make that possible.
Hild Bede is a place which looks out for you, and which looks after you.
We welcome people from all backgrounds and places, because experience and diversity enriches our tradition and history and helps us write the next pages.
Our ambitions for your success are matched by the support that we provide.
Hild Bede is an extended family.
Our students ‘come home’ to Hild Bede from the day they first arrive.
You will living in splendid accommodation within 20 minutes walk of our Riverside site where we have study, common room, bar and performance spaces.
Contact us by phone or email below to find out more about us.
DH1 4RY
Reception: 07526169136

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/collingwood:
522
Our long-standing excellence in sport is now matched in theatre, music, film and tech.
We’re a fully catered college with standard and en-suite accommodation and outstanding facilities to help you pursue whatever is important and meaningful to you.
Our culture is informal and non-hierarchical.
Collingwood is an energetic and modern College, that's not to say we don't have traditions, of course...
you'll often see energetic renditions of "Country Roads" at the end of a formal dinner!
Facilities that support your extra-curricular personal development, and provide an environment that encourages Collingwood students to get involved, be ambitious and try new things.
If you have any queries please contact us.
South Road Durham DH1 3LT
Tel +44 (0) 191 334 5000

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/grey:
320
Grey College is situated right next to the main Mountjoy Science Site and close to the Billy B Library.
It has a beautiful landscaped setting on the ‘lower hill’ adjacent to the Botanic Gardens and woodlands.
Grey has just over 1,200 undergraduate students and a further 150 students who are studying for a postgraduate degree.
Together with College officers, staff and mentors, they make up our vibrant College community.
Grey College is named after the political reformer Charles Grey, 2nd Earl Grey, who was a polical reformer who set in train changes that led to the abolition of slavery in the British Empire in 1833 and votes for all.
His portrait and statue have pride of place in Grey College.
Our mascot reflects our indomitable spirit – Felix the Phoenix is a nod to the College’s founding in 1959, and its rising from the ashes when the buildings suffered a devasting fire but opened on time nonetheless.
At Grey, our students pride themselves on their creativity and inclusive community spirit, enjoying the wealth of opportunities that Collegiate life brings.
Students choose to participate in a wide range of College and JCR activities, rounding off their personal and skills development, while building lasting friendships and networks.
Thanks to our JCR’s ‘one fee for everything’ model our students are active in sport, musical and artistic teams and societies and in several excellent community outreach and fundraising projects.
We hope that you will find something of interest here.
If you need further information, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
College life revolves around our beautiful dining hall where our first year and postgraduate  ‘livers-in’ gather for daily meals, themed formal dinners, music and other events.
Students living out of College, predominantly those in second and later years of study, remain part of the community and are included in clubs and societies and events including College dinners.
College life is about engendering a sense of belonging and supporting your personal development, well-being and welfare alongside your academic study.
We provide mentoring, student support, careers seminars with alumni and much more, helping you to unlock your true potential.
The tennis court project completed over Easter and our new Multi Use Games Area has risen!
Find out what our students get up to at Grey College.
Contact us by phone or email below to find out more about accommodation, admissions and student support.
Durham University South Road Durham DH1 3LG UK
+44 (0) 191 334 5900
Order your personalised prospectus and College guide here.

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/hatfield:
Hatfield College is a vibrant and welcoming community to which each and every student belongs alongside other College members, reflecting our ethos and recent joint declaration #AllOneHatfield .
We combine a thoroughly contemporary outlook with pride in our historical roots and traditions, gaining strength from our long-established community whilst constantly evolving to meet new challenges.
Established in 1846, as the second college of Durham University, with the explicit purpose of being open to a wide range of students, we greatly value the rich diversity of our College members who come from all sorts of backgrounds and places of origin, with all sorts of interests, experiences and views.
Through multiple student community groups, celebrations at Formals, discussions, debates and many other activities, we strive to live out our ethos.
Enabled by the Hatfield Trust which is funded by our alumni, we offer a range of bursaries and scholarships for incoming home undergraduates from low-income households supporting them to join in and participate fully without financial burden.
Hatfield Bursaries covering core costs of College life are automatically provided to all such incoming home students.
Additionally, Hatfield Scholarships are available to home undergraduate offer holders from low-income households (application deadline April 27 th 2025).
The Hatfield Lioness and Guy Beresford Scholarships provide financial support for taught postgraduate students from developing countries and the North East of England.
We strive to ensure that all Hatfielders have the opportunities and encouragement to be the best they can be, reflecting the words of our motto, Vel Primus Vel Cum Primis.
Numerous student clubs and societies for sports, communities groups, volunteering opportunities, careers events, music, drama and other arts-based ventures are organised by the student Common Rooms and by College.
The Hatfield Trust funds internships, grants and awards for additional pursuits.
Whether trying something new or keeping up an established interest, Hatfielders participate and enjoy a wide range of activities, learning and developing, creating and organising along the way.
Hatfield is a very strong, supportive community; Hatfielders look out for and care for each other.
Whether students spend one, three, four or more years at the College, Hatfield provides a thoroughly rewarding and enjoyable environment.
Hatfielders carry the Hatfield spirit of participation and supportive community out into life and careers beyond.
College members proudly proclaim once a Hatfielder always a Hatfielder, reflecting the tremendous warmth and loyalty the experience of belonging to Hatfield promotes.
Professor Ann MacLarnon Master of Hatfield College
Did you know that if you're household income is below £30,000, you are automatically entitled to a Hatfield Bursary?
The Full Hatfield Bursary supports key College related expenses like your JCR levy...
310
North Bailey
DH1 3RQ, UK
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 2633
Hatfield Association Event Booking Terms and Conditions 2023

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/john-snow:
We pride ourselves on being a kind, inclusive community in which everyone, irrespective of background, can achieve their potential,.
We ensure there is a strong focus on wellbeing and support both from trained college staff but also from student welfare officers.
Take a look around John Snow College with our unofficial tour guide Kieran.
At John Snow College- we've got it all!
404
Tel: +44(0) 191 334 0046

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/josephine-butler:
372
Durham University South Road DH1 3DF
Tel: +44 (0) 191 3347260

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/st-aidans:
259 rooms (46 shared)
St Aidan's College are delighted to encourage applications to The Joel Donovan KC Law Scholarship which offer support to UK Black Heritage Students of African, Caribbean, Dual, or Mixed heritage joining the undergraduate LLB Law programme in Autumn 2023/24
A modern College, we evolve as we explore new possibilities with our local and international partners.
You can develop your talents, or discover new ones, in a caring and supportive environment.
Our creative writing course is unique, our intercultural and interfaith exchanges are thriving, and our College spaces can host anything from meditation groups to ‘Live Lounge’ and ‘Open Mic’ evenings.
With the emphasis on participation, we have a great tradition of both informal and committed activity: from mixed frisbee to women’s rugby, yoga and meditation to tango, salsa, and classical Indian dance.
We are proud co-founders and hosts of Durham Pride and Durham City of Sanctuary, and of two research centres with community impact and growing global relationships at their heart.
Through celebrations like Chinese New Year and international film nights, our Banipal Middle Eastern Writer in Residence Fellowship and JSoc’s Shabbat celebrations, we work towards active citizenship to challenge a fractured world.
Situated at the top of Windmill Hill, if you take a moment of calm near our haunting sculpture by Fenwick Lawson, the view of Durham Cathedral and the dramatic landscape of the city will always inspire you.
We have a college gym that is available for all Aidan’s students to use.
We also have our own outdoor sports court, and during the summer months, the gardens are a hive of activity.
With its wonderful view of the Cathedral, our spacious library is hidden away in a quiet part of college away from the accommodation.
We have our own music room which was recently refurbished, and can be booked out by students on a daily basis for both private practice or for group/ensemble use.
The gym contains two treadmills, four rowing machines, three elliptical trainers, two cycles, two recumbent cycles and a brand new multi-gym.
This facility has been designed by students to suit their needs and is a fantastic addition to the college.
Open 24/7 for computer use, book borrowing and quiet study, the library contains approximately 14,000 volumes, 13 network computers, a networked printer and plenty of desk space.
The room contains its own regularly-tuned piano, a drum kit, and a set of amps for bands.
The University Hill Orchestra uses our Hall for their weekly practice and many of our students play with them.
Find out more about our undergraduate accommodation.
Find out more about our postgraduate accommodation.
Find out what our graduates and current students are getting up to on our Durham blog.
Durham University Windmill Hill Durham DH1 3LJ
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 5769
Fax: +44 (0)191 334 5770

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/st-cuthberts-society:
413
Founded in 1888 by students as an alternative to the existing two colleges, Cuth's still retains that independence of spirit, but now offers its students all the advantages of being a college of Durham University.
With rooms in houses on the historic Bailey and self-catered, modern flats across the river at Parson's Field, Cuth's provides a uniquely flexible range of accommodation and catering options to our diverse student body.
We offer outstanding opportunities for student participation in sport, the arts and volunteering, supported by our energetic Junior Common Room.
We have a lively programme of interdisciplinary lectures, careers evenings and events to enhance the academic experience as well as plenty of social events.
Cuth's offers a variety of facilities, available for all our students to use.
Our accommodation is situated on two different sites: Bailey and Parson's Field.
12 South Bailey
DH1 3EE, UK
Tel: +44 (0)191 3343400
Brooks House
Old Elvet
DH1 3JP, UK
Tel: +44 (0)191 3346596

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/st-johns:
175 (plus 40 postgraduates)
St John’s College is like no other Durham college.
Founded in 1909 and set in a series of beautiful listed buildings in the heart of Durham city, our community enjoys stunning views of Durham Cathedral and boasts gardens and lawns stretching down to the River Wear.
We are one of the smallest colleges, renowned for our lively and welcoming atmosphere.
St John’s fosters a supportive community that will positively challenge, develop, and grow your individual strengths.
The College has a degree of independence within the University, both financially and in its governance.
Our students study for University degrees alongside members of other colleges, but we have the freedom to do things a little differently.
Our College is situated in the historic heart of Durham City, within a World Heritage site.
Explore our College Records from 2016 onwards.
Our new gym has ergs, cross trainers, treadmills, a weights room and much more.
Our library is light, spacious and congenial for study, with 86 study desks as well as a group study room for up to 8 people and an excellent stock of around 27,000 books.
Our College Chapel is the Church of St Mary the Less which was founded around 1140, extensively renovated in 1847, and acquired by St John's College in 1919.
Our dedicated music practice rooms have upright pianos, guitar amps, vocal amplification and a full electric drum kit, as well as an electric organ and instrumental practice space.
Social distancing rules over the summer of 2020 inspired us to repurpose our Upstairs Bar and neighbouring outdoor space on Linton, forming the Linton Garden Bar.
Gym equipment overlooking our green space
The Sir William Leech Library on the first and second floors of our purpose-built Learning Resource Centre
The Church of St Mary the Less on the Bailey just across the road from the main row of College buildings
Student performance in the gardens
Linton Bar accessed from the lawns at the back of the College where there are many large tables and parasols for socialising
Hear from our students at St John's and find out what College life is like.
St John's College is home to Cranmer Hall, a vibrant and diverse evangelical Christian community rooted in Durham and the North East.
3 South Bailey Durham DH1 3RJ United Kingdom
Tel:+44 (0) 191 334 3500
St John's College, Durham is a constituent College of Durham University and is a registered charity.
Charity No.
1141701
VAT No.
334 636457

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/st-marys:
213
Established in 1899, St Mary's is one of Durham's oldest Colleges.
Our warm and friendly mixed community, comprises around 750 undergraduate members and 150 full-time and 200 part-time postgraduates.
We are situated in a great location, close to many of the University’s academic departments and central facilities.
Our neoclassical buildings and extensive grounds provide a beautiful environment in which to live and study.
At Mary's we believe there is something for everyone.
Our sporting facilities give students the opportunity to get involved in a number of team sports.
We have three music practice rooms and other spaces in College.
We also have a K.
Kawai piano in Kenworthy Hall which is available for Grade 8 pianists to use.
There is a small bar and the Dining Hall and Kenworthy Hall are used for larger College social occasions such as formals, balls, drama productions and live lounges.
St Mary's Rugby Team.
Our talented artists support St Mary's events.
Our grounds are used for regular events, such as St Mary's Day.
Hear from our students at St Mary's and find out what College life is like.
Elvet Hill Road Durham DH1 3LR
Tel:+44 (0)191 334 5719

New sentences found on https://durham.ac.uk/colleges-and-student-experience/colleges/south-college:
337
South offers fantastic opportunities to students who would like to share in the adventure of developing and shaping our College's identity.
This is based on the principles described in our motto: 'Libertas, Aequalitas, Civitas Totius mundi', in English, 'Freedom, Equality and Global Citizenship'.
A stunning example of purpose-built modern architecture, South is located on a beautiful, parkland site alongside Durham's existing Hill Colleges.
Our sporting facilities give students the opportunity to get involved and keep fit.
Our music room is great for individual or small group practice.
A place for students to study, work on group projects, or socialise.
Our shared Multi-Use Games Area.
Our music room is fitted with a drum kit, an upright piano and amps for guitar and bass.
Our College Café - Bar is located in the Pitcairn Building.
Find out more about our accommodation at South College.
Get the most out of your experience at South College with our student enrichment programme.
We offer students a unique opportunity to write a new chapter in Durham University's proud history.
Contact us by phone or email below to find out more about South College.
South College The Drive Durham DH1 3LD
Tel: +44 (0)191 334 0999