# Site: https://www.essex.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 495
# --------

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk:
Join a top 25 UK university (Guardian University Guide 2025).
Accommodation guaranteed when you apply before the deadline.
Or browse all courses in Clearing
Apply by Friday 12 September as a new Undergraduate or Postgraduate student and get guaranteed accommodation for your first year.
Apply to Essex today.
It's more than just a room.
It's your place to connect and thrive, make friends for life, and embrace the moments that make you.
Find yours today.
Are you thinking of coming to University in October 2025 but haven't visited Essex yet?
Here's your chance!
Our Clearing Open Days at Colchester and Southend are happening this August.
See our accommodation, get a tour of campus, meet some of our academics, and chat to current students.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/clearing:
We currently have places available in Clearing across a range of courses, with most offers at BBC–CCD (112–88 UCAS tariff points) or equivalent.
Grade requirements may be lower in some cases, and some courses may also have subject specific requirements.
We consider each application individually so get in touch if your grades are below those outlined here.
You can also apply by phone on 01206 873666 .
Feeling confused?
Got a question about how you apply through Clearing, or what will happen if you don't get the grades you were expecting?
Check out our most frequently asked questions which should put your mind at ease.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects:
Explore our undergraduate courses, postgraduate Masters and research degrees by subject, and find the perfect programme for your study.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate:
Our students and graduates are dedicated to making change, big or small.
Join us for the freedom to challenge norms, speak out, and share ideas.
We're proud to be ranked 23rd in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025 .
Choosing a university is a significant decision.
With us, it's not just about getting a degree; it's about creating lasting memories, friendships, personal growth , and the chance to make your ambitions a reality
Our diverse range of undergraduate and bachelor courses ensures there's something for everyone, with modules that allow you to really explore your subject and specialise in areas you feel passionate about.
From course vacancies to how to apply.
We’ll send you expert tips, key dates, and personalised advice straight to your inbox.
If you already have your results, you can apply to us through Clearing straightaway.
Take a look at our available courses and find the perfect fit for you.
Want to know what Essex is really about?
Hear straight from the people who call it home.
Each story is unique, but they all show what it’s like to be part of Essex – how it shapes us, and how it could shape you.
The best way to get to know Essex is by chatting to our current students.
Whether you have questions about your course, accommodation, nightlife or anything else, why not ask our students and staff?
Applications for on-campus accommodation for October 2025 are now open.
So if we're your firm or insurance choice university, it's time to make your application.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community.
We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate:
As an Essex postgraduate student, you'll join a global community looking to further their career potential, develop new skills or research the next ground-breaking idea, technology and initiative.
We have over 300 Masters courses and research degrees for you to explore and find the one that best suits your interests.
Whether delving into taught programs or pioneering your research under academic guidance, our commitment extends beyond the classroom.
At Essex, we give you the freedom, knowledge and tools to become a successful professional, and we’ll continue to support you even after you’ve left us.
If completing your studies here was just the beginning, we have so much more to offer you.
Whether you’re looking to start your next chapter immediately, or if you’ve had some time away and are hungry to return, at Essex we’ve got a postgraduate course for you.
As an Essex graduate you'll also be eligible for our Alumni discount saving you 33% on the first year of both a postgraduate taught course and a research degree
The Masters Preparation Programme is a free online course for students who are planning to enrol on a postgraduate taught course at University of Essex having received an offer of study.
It is designed to make sure you are ready for the jump to postgraduate teaching whether you are coming from an undergraduate degree or have been out of study for a while.
Interested?
Why not sign up today?

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/fees-and-funding:
Going to university is one of the best investments you will ever make.
Our tuition fees enable us to invest in your future and provide first-class facilities.
We also offer a wide range of scholarships and bursaries to ensure that students from all backgrounds can benefit from an Essex Education.
Find advice on living costs, maximising your income, managing debts and planning for life after graduation.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses:
Explore our portfolio of programmes across our three faculties:
Led by experts across the field of Arts and Humanities, our practical professional development courses offer specialist training across a range of areas.
Develop your skills, tools and expertise to take your career to the next level.
Our portfolio of courses offers flexible study options.
Many of our courses are credit-bearing and have been developed in partnership with local providers, ensuring you are equipped with the necessary skills required in industry.
Building on our academic and practical expertise, we offer a range of CPD opportunities to enable you to continue your personal and professional development.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/international:
Essex is a truly international institution with a long history of welcoming students from around the world.
With us, you’re not just a student, you’re a member.
Essex introduces you to people from all over the planet.
We are a global community that lives, works and plays together.
You study an internationally relevant curriculum, become part of our diverse community, and are taught by academics whose research has global impact.
We give you the best chance to compete in a global economy, with generous scholarships to support talented students, and a dedicated Careers Service who will help boost your employability.
We've got tailored information for many different countries
We'll make sure you have all the information you need to apply
See how we can help you

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships:
We offer many funding opportunities to support students, including a broad range of University of Essex scholarships, bursaries and research council funding to awards funded by charities and other external organisations.
Find out more about the range of Undergraduate , Postgraduate Taught and Postgraduate research scholarships, bursaries and awards we offer, including eligibility based on your country of residence and how to apply for them.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/study-abroad:
You can study, work or volunteer at one of our partner institutions around the world.
If you're a visiting exchange or study abroad student, come and experience academic life in the UK, the Essex way.
Studying or working abroad gives you the chance to immerse yourself in another culture, develop your independence and boost your confidence, giving you an enormous advantage when you enter the global job market.
Choose your international experience and let the adventure begin.
The Essex Abroad team will be here to support you every step of the way!
Essex Abroad on social media:
Find all the info you need when you come to study at Essex from abroad.
Check out our exchange finder to explore all countries you can study in.
We can help find you a placement to work, volunteer or study abroad
We have you covered.
Through our award-winning Languages for All programme , Essex students are entitled to learn a language alongside their degree, at no extra cost for one year.
Depending on which campus, students can choose from a wide range of languages including Arabic, British Sign Language, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin Chinese, Russian and Spanish.
This course is designed to equip you with essential language skills so you can live, study or work abroad for a short time.
We run lots of different sessions throughout the year to provide you with essential information about going abroad.
From first year and second year briefings to funding chats and country low-downs, we've got it covered.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Higher and Degree Apprenticeships provide you with an excellent opportunity to study towards a degree while working and earning.
Apprenticeships are a fantastic opportunity as an alternative route into Higher Education without the debt or as a way to upskill your qualifications with the support of your existing employer to further your career.
To be eligible for an Apprenticeship you will need to be in paid employment either full time or part time in a relevant job role to the apprenticeship course you're applying for.
If you are a prospective apprentice who wants a head-start in the workplace, we're here to guide you through your options.
If you are an employer, looking to develop new recruits or reskill/upskill qualified staff, please see our information for employers .
We currently offer apprenticeships in the following subject areas:
To be eligible to be an apprentice, you must satisfy the requirements of the Department for Education (DfE) funding rules.
This means that you must:
*Individuals studying for a Higher or Degree Apprenticeship are not eligible for a Student or Maintenance Loan from Student Finance England.
We currently offer apprenticeships at three levels, in two subject areas:
The delivery of apprenticeship programmes at the University of Essex have been rated as ‘good’ by Ofsted inspectors.
The Ofsted report said University of Essex apprentices “highly value their courses” and “appreciate the support they receive from their lecturers and personal tutors”.
Boost your business with our training for apprentices and advice on making the most of your Apprentice Levy.
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information is accurate and up-to-date.
Occasionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees.
Examples of such reasons might include a change of law or regulatory requirements, industrial action, lack of demand, departure of key personnel, change in government policy, or withdrawal/reduction of funding.
Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses.
The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep prospective students informed appropriately by updating our programme specifications .
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life:
Your time at Essex will be full of opportunities to meet new people, try new things and develop new skills.
Your success is at the heart of everything we do.
Essex is the culturally vibrant county that's home to our three campuses, Colchester , Southend-on-Sea and Loughton .
Beyond the eastern edge of London, Essex is home to a fascinating mixture of both modern and traditional towns and villages, and has one of the longest coastlines in Britain.
What's more, did you know The University of Essex is first in the East of England for overall positivity*?
Or that we're 23rd in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025?
*(English broad discipline higher education institutions, NSS 2024)
As Britain's oldest recorded development, the city of Colchester is steeped in over two thousand years of history after being founded by the Ancient Romans, and it's also where our main university campus is located.
But it's not just Colchester that has lots for you to explore.
Situated on one of the longest coastlines in England, Essex has a strong connection to the sea, and offers an array of delicious food.
Not far from Colchester is Mersea Island, known for its world-famous Oysters, and freshly caught fish.
That's not all the coast has to offer.
Southend-on-Sea has the longest pleasure pier in the world, where you can play crazy golf and taste the best traditional fish and chips.
You can also jet off to Europe through the local Southend Airport .
Less than 30 minutes from Central London, our third campus in Loughton can be found just outside the hustle and bustle of the capital.
For our East 15 students, this town serves up a buffet of bars and restaurants and lively entertainment.
For a touch of tranquility, Epping Forest is right on your doorstep for horse riding, mountain biking or wildlife spotting in a picturesque setting.
We know that moving out for university might not be for everyone.
Perhaps you're a mature student with a family; you have a part-time job elsewhere; or you're local and would rather save the cash?
Whatever your reason, we provide support and resources for our commuting students to help balance  academic, personal and work commitments.
If you're planning to drive to campus we have parking available at our Colchester and Southend Campuses, with the option to purchase a permit at Colchester.
If you're looking to use public transport there are bus and train links, plus cycle routes throughout the city of Colchester.
If travelling by bus, First Essex even offer a reduced season ticket price for University of Essex students.
And when it comes to immersing yourself in university life it's important to remember that there is no 'right' way to be a student.
So throw yourself in, join a society or a sports team, and make the most of all the on-campus events on offer.
Choosing to live off campus doesn't make you any less a part of the Essex family.
Chat to our friendly students and staff to find out more about our courses, student life, clubs & societies and much more!
You can speak to an individual or join a community group chat.
Relax by the lakes at Colchester Campus
Take a breath of fresh sea air in Southend
Meet like-minded people or try out something new with our Students' Union's 165 sports clubs and societies
When you join Essex, you’ll automatically gain over 11,000 new brothers and sisters – your Students' Union family
Loughton Campus
Explore the Essex countryside

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation:
It's your chance to live at the heart of a vibrant campus community with shared values and diverse interests, in an environment where you will succeed.
Apply today and get guaranteed accommodation for the duration of your course .
Meaning you can say goodbye to yearly house hunting knowing Essex has your room ready for you.
Your student profile can take up to 72 hours to activate from the point of accepting your offer, please allow enough time for this to process when booking your accommodation.
For enquiries about accommodation or about an application you're making, contact us at the Student Services Hub.
Quote your full name and PRID or PG number on all correspondence.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/cost-of-living-support:
We believe no one should miss out on an Essex education.
And, as the ongoing cost of living crisis is making life harder for students we want to ensure we do all we can to support all of our community.
We've found ways to make life more affordable on campus and have a package of bursaries and financial options to help students with their studies and accommodation throughout their time with us.
Working together with our Students' Union we have a full range of support to help our students and community.
After all, the Essex family is at its strongest in times of adversity.
We provide a wide range of Scholarships and Bursaries  to ensure students can start with us regardless of the country they are applying from and their situation.
Many of these scholarships are also auto-awarded when you apply with us.
If you are a UK student from a household with an income of up to £35,000 you may be eligible for our Essex Futures Bursary , a support package worth up to £3,000.
Browse through the range and see what you might be eligible for.
Accommodation costs at Essex include your energy bills and internet access so regardless of what happens to supplier costs, you can rest assured you'll be fine with Essex.
When it comes to choosing accommodation, whilst there are privately owned off-campus options out there, University owned accommodation not only gives you the convenience of being on campus, 24-hour security, and provides a range of different facilities and benefits such as on-site or close by laundrettes.
At our Colchester Campus you'll also receive a Silver gym membership and other benefits to living with us too.
Our prices for a single room start at as little as £109.90 per person per week ensuring they are affordable too.
If you’re a new undergraduate student for the 2025-26 academic year you can also choose to lock in your accommodation deal for the full duration of your 3 year course , fixing the 2025-26 throughout your studies, which means no rent increases!
Whether you're bringing food from home or grabbing something on the go, staying budget-friendly at Essex is easy.
There are a number of common rooms across campus equipped with microwaves where you can heat up your meals.
Our shops also stock a variety of microwavable food options for your convenience.
Plus, don’t forget to download the Essex Food Upay app and collect rewards every time you eat or drink on campus.
Scan your app with every eligible purchase, and for every 5 purchases, your 6th is on us.
Who said there’s no such thing as a free lunch?
One of the standout areas of an Essex Education is the opportunity we provide students to help boost their career.
We offer personalised career counselling, internship placements, and workshops on CV building and interview preparation to help get you ready for life after graduation.
We know that you might also need to get a job whilst studying with us, which is why we provide a collection of different job opportunities on campus (all paid at least the Voluntary Living Wage) to support you during your time with us, and to boost your CV after graduation.
Sometimes it’s the small things that really make a difference.
As an Essex student there are lots of little perks that you may not be aware of.
For example, our numerous computer labs across campus and free short -term laptop loan scheme ensure that you’re always able to complete all coursework and study even if you don’t have access to a personal laptop or computer.
No one should miss out on being able to study because they can’t buy books.
All essential reading for each module on your course is provided in online reading lists by our library services.
If you prefer the feel of paper, many of your essential reading list items can also be found in our physical library spaces.
Our libraries also provide access to hundreds of online e-books, journals, databases and subscription services for students, as well as hundreds of thousands of physical books, journals and resources associated with each of our subject areas and beyond.
We've also removed resit fees to ensure students aren't held back from resitting exams due to finance.
As an Essex student you’ll also get free access to:
The location of all three Essex campuses makes it easy and cheap to explore the local area!
Our Colchester Campus is a short walk from a major supermarket, and with Loughton and Southend campuses in the centre of town, everything you need is on your doorstep.
We also offer a range of sustainable, affordable transport options, including buses, bikes and e-scooters.
Buses between our campuses and surrounding areas run on a frequent basis, and a First UoE bus pass for Colchester or Arriva Bus Pass for Southend provide a year of unlimited travel at a discount.
If cycling is your thing, we offer a fortnightly Dr Bike service in Colchester, offering free maintenance checks and discounted services and repairs.
E-scooters are available on our Colchester Campus, and you can benefit from a 50% discount through the TIER UK access scheme .
We have a Hardship Fund designed to help Essex students who are experiencing unexpected, exceptional changes in their financial circumstances that have resulted in short-term financial difficulty.
The fund provides non-repayable grants to support emergency short-term living costs, allowing students to continue their studies at Essex with reduced financial pressures.
The Hardship Fund can help contribute towards food, travel to enable engagement in studies, community and wellbeing activities (such as University and Students' Union societies and clubs), accommodation, household bills, and childcare costs.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/religion-and-faith:
At Essex you can find the world in one place.
We bring together students and staff from over 130 countries - a vibrant mix of faiths, beliefs and cultural traditions across our three campuses.
We recognise the important role that faith, belief and spirituality plays in the lives of many people.
Our multi-faith approach to supporting the University community respects and celebrates differences between faiths and beliefs.
Our multi-faith spaces at Colchester and Southend are places of calm and peace - a sanctuary where anyone in our busy University can be still with their thoughts, meditate or pray, alone or with a chaplain.
The Centre offers a safe place to practise or explore faith, either on campus or by connecting staff or students to a local place of worship.
Staff and students may also like to attend one of the services or events in the varied programme, organised by the chaplains or Students' Union faith societies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/student-support:
If you need practical advice, a confidential conversation or general information, no matter what the issue is, our Student Services Hub is the place to go.
Ask us about health and well-being, accommodation, funding, exam stress and much more.
Your questions matter and you'll get answers from our team of experts.
The mental and emotional health of our student community at Essex is our priority and we offer a range of services:
As a student with diabetes you may be concerned about how to manage this during your time at university.
At Essex we have a range of diabetes support in place for you:
We have a range of healthcare services covering everything from access to medical help, transport and mobility, and academic assistance for those with particular needs.
We understand the impact that the cost-of-living crisis is having on you, and we have put a number of measures in place to support our Essex community:
Here at Essex, our focus is on supporting your success and providing whatever help we can with your studies:
At Essex, we make sure that all students can enjoy equality of opportunity and we do that through a range of services from adapted accommodation to learning and study skills support:
At Colchester we have an on-campus day nursery with priority given to Essex students with children.
Our Essex community is one of the most international in the UK, and we offer a range of practical support to our global family:
If you're over 21 at the start of your course, you will automatically be a member of our vibrant mature student community.
We offer a range of support and networking opportunities to mature students including peer mentoring and support, events and membership of our Mature Students' Community .
Check out further details of what we offer on our Mature and Part-time Students page
For further help and advice please contact the Student Services Hub.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/careers:
At Essex we will help you achieve your career aspirations, by offering a wealth of personal development opportunities, connecting you with employers, and preparing you for a future beyond graduation.
All the help you need to succeed in a competitive market
Support your studies through paid experience
Develop your skills and broaden your horizons
Our Essex business experts are here to support you.
If you have entrepreneurial abilities, we have the right courses and the best opportunities around for you to explore industry links and networks, build a brand and learn how to develop a business idea.
Leading entrepreneur, Ankit Mehrotra
Women's health innovator, Chantelle Bell
Champion boxer, Dan Azeez
Empowering women's advocate, Stephanie Case
If you know what course you want to study, but you aren't sure what type of career it might lead to, or you know the career you want but you are not sure what course to studyto help you get there, we have further careers information available on our department pages.
Each covers the transferable skills you will gain from their courses, and what employers are looking for in individuals with those skills.
Looking to study with us?
Sign-up and keep in touch and we'll ensure you have all the information you need.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport:
Take advantage of our Essex Sport membership packages for Students, Staff and members of the public giving you access to excellent facilities, including the state-of-the-art Essex Sport Arena, a cutting-edge gym, a variety of group fitness classes, and an extensive range of sports.
Find out what's happening across the University, and the range of sporting activities taking place each day

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/chat:
We all know there are some questions only a student can answer.
Whether you’re eager to learn more about your preferred subject, want to get a feel for what life at Essex is really like, or perhaps you want to speak to someone with a similar background to you about their experience so far – Unibuddy’s the place.
Unibuddy is a chat platform that enables one on one chats between you and current Essex students and staff.
All chats are monitored so rest assured it’s a safe and welcoming environment to ask all your questions and really get to know us better.
Unibuddy is messaging real students living their real lives, so it is unlikely you will receive an instant response.
Ambassadors aim to get back to you within 24-48 hours.
Our Offer Holder Unibuddy Community is the place to get chatting with your future classmates and get to know each other before you start.
If you’ve never heard of Unibuddy Communities, don’t worry , they’re a bit like a university focused Whatsapp group.
The Offer Holder Community is a private chat on the Unibuddy app available by invite only, providing you with a designated space to chat with potential classmates.
In addition to Essex offer holders, the community chat also has some student ambassadors in there too.
You should have received your invite via email with your offer, please contact admit@essex.ac.uk if you need this re-sent.
For each academic year there are two main Essex communities; undergraduate offer holders and postgraduate offer holders.
We have separate communities for undergrad and postgrad to allow you to meet your future course mates and to keep topics discussed within the chats relevant.
You should receive an invite directly from Unibuddy to join the community for your level of study within a few days of receiving your offer email.
Email admit@essex.ac.uk if you haven't had this for any reason.
Because these communities are invite only you will need to follow the link in your invite from Unibuddy to gain access and make your profile .
Already have a Unibuddy account with your email?
You can sign in using your existing password.
Once set up you can access the community and any chats you've previously had with Student Ambassadors on the Unibuddy app (available on iOS or Android) or in your internet browser if you prefer.
The choice is yours.
If you're not yet an offer holder then hang tight, you won't be able to join our community groups until you've received an invite.
Community chats are designed to be safe spaces for you to meet fellow offer holder and start building your uni network before you get here.
For safeguarding purposes they are monitored and behaviour deemed unacceptable will be flagged and dealt with.
You can also self-flag any messages or users that you feel are being inappropriate.
Expected behaviour on Unibuddy community centres around these 4 rules:
1.
Be kind and courteous.
2.
No hate or bullying.
3.
No promotions or spam.
4.
Respect everyone's privacy.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/membership:
We’ve got a variety of student , staff and community memberships tailored just for you.
Take advantage of our Essex Sport membership packages giving you access to excellent facilities, including the state-of-the-art Essex Sport Arena, a cutting-edge gym, a variety of group fitness classes, and an extensive range of sports.
Essex Sport on social media:
Student membership is available to any current University of Essex student.
Staff membership is available to current University staff, Emeritus Professors, ex-members of staff who given 25 years’ service, other members of staff working on the campus
Find out more about general public memberships .
Concession membership is available to all Essex graduates (upon production of Alumni card), partners of current staff and students, temporary staff, disabled users (upon production of documented proof of disability), current full-time students of other universities and colleges, registered unemployed and senior (60+) citizens.
*Purchase of a consession membership can only be made at the Sport Centre reception and not online.
Junior membership is available to children and young people between the ages of 8 years and 18 years on production of proof of age.
Entry to fitness classes and adult courses is not permitted for any member under the age of 16 years.
Supervised entry to the gym is available between ages 12 and 15 years.
Unsupervised entry to the gym is only available for those over the age of 16 years.
Tap into Sport at any time.
Make bookings on the go, check schedules, get news and push notifications, get all the latest offers and more...
For Apple and Android, free download.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities:
We have a great range of facilities, both indoors and outdoors at our Colchester Campus.
In 2018, we launched the £12 million Essex Sport Arena , which is built to international sporting standards and is available to hire.
The space boasts seating for 1,655 spectators, and includes 23 courts for basketball, netball, volleyball, badminton and futsal.
Our Sports Centre is home to our spacious Essex Sport gym, fitness studios, squash courts and large sports hall.
The centre is also the headquarters for our Performance Sport Department.
And that’s just the indoor stuff.
We are renowned for our research on the benefits of Green Exercise and we practise what we preach.
Located within the Colchester Campus  and covering 40 acres, our outdoor sports area includes an 18-hole disc golf course, all-weather tennis courts, plus tons of space for you and your mates to play a game of five-a-side.
Bank Holiday Opening Times
Essex Sport is now operating as a cashless facility, only online and card payments are accepted.
You can book online for a variety of fitness classes here at Essex Sport, from freestyle fitness yoga to cycle classes.
Plus you can book one of our badminton, squash or tennis courts.
And don't forget you can also hire our fantastic new arena space.
At Essex Sport our facilities are available for booking by students, staff and the public.
There are several ways to book a facility or class, including:
* Non-members will need to either telephone or visit the Sports Centre reception.
To ensure fairness for all, consecutively timed/double bookings for courts are not permitted.
Our friendly Essex Sport team is on hand to guide you through the booking process.
For Active Sessions, you can also simply turn up and pay.
However, we strongly recommend signing up to ensure you have a place.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/arena:
Here at the Arena we have an array of different types of events to interest everyone.
including basketball, volleyball, netball, badminton and futsal; with seating for up to 1,655 spectators, there's always something on for you to see and do
Find out more about the Essex Rebels and see them live on their website.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/performance-sport:
The university has a diverse array of sports teams and clubs to explore, and we're proud to announce our aspiration to become the leading sporting institution in the Eastern region within the next three years.
This vision is reflected in our commitment to excellence in every aspect of university life, including sports.
One of the significant ways we measure our success is through the British Universities and Colleges Sport ( BUCS ) league.
Our performance on the field contributes directly to our BUCS ranking.
Each of you will play a crucial role in securing points for your team and, by extension, helping us climb the ladder toward our Top 25 goal.
We're proud to say Essex is a top 30 sports university in the UK, ranked 29th this year after competing in 22 different disciplines, a milestone achievement in our history.
We secured 1759.5 BUCS points, with volleyball, basketball, football and tennis collectively contributing 44% of the overall points.
Applications for our sports scholarships and bursaries for the 2025-26 academic year has now closed and will reopen 2026-27 in October.
Our Performance Sport program fosters growth with expert coaching, cutting-edge facilities and a community of passionate athletes.
As a welcoming and supportive community, we encourage you to thrive in your sport whilst also supporting you to succeed in your academic studies.
We offer undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships and bursaries for regional, national, or international-level players in our focus sports and other disciplines.
Elevate your game and studies with the opportunities we offer for personal and athletic development.
Our performance sport coaches are experienced and skilled in working with talented athletes within national pathways.
Each of our performance sports are supported by a head coach and multidisciplinary team (MDT) specialising in strength and conditioning, performance analysis, lifestyle support, sports therapy, sport science and physiotherapy.
Our coaching and MDT team provide an elite daily training environment, encompassing individual and team training sessions both on and off the court/pitch.
Our mission to provide an athlete centred model allows for individual growth as well as accomplishing a shared vision and goal within our performance programmes.
Essex boasts modern sports facilities equipped with the latest technology to support your training and development, including;
We understand the unique challenges of balancing academics and sports.
Our dedicated support staff will assist you in managing your commitments and maintaining a healthy balance, plus you will have access to a comprehensive support system designed to help you reach your peak performance.
Individualised training plans with goal setting, monitoring and video analysis all aim to improve skill development, within the following performance sports programme offering:
We are proud to be part of the Clean Sport Higher Education Partnership with UK Anti-Doping (UKAD), promoting a culture of fair play, integrity, and clean competition across all levels of sport.
All scholar-athletes complete the UKAD e-learning course during onboarding, and we provide wider education for staff, students and future sports professionals through our academic programmes.
You'll have the chance to compete at various levels, from university leagues to national and international tournaments, subject to selection.
Most recent successes:
Join a vibrant community of student-athletes who share your passion for sports.
We encourage connection and friendship, we send end of term highlights and shout outs, we share what's happening within our performance sports community across all programmes and want to learn from you, grow and achieve together.
We take great pride in fostering a strong sense of community and support, not only among our student-athletes but also with our dedicated supporters.
The Tribe is a prime example of this commitment.
As the proudest, loudest, and most inclusive supporters club in the UK, The Tribe was launched just last academic year and has already garnered significant recognition, winning the prestigious CUBO (College and University Business Officers) award in the 'Innovation in Student Experience' category.
This growing community, added to a progressive desire to make our Essex Rebels game day experiences memorable for all, has resulted in back to back wins for ' Best Gameday Experience ' by the National Basketball League.
Last year the ‘ Best Gameday Experience Award ’ came off the back of the incredible International Women’s Day WBBL event .
Inspiring stories, real accounts and what to expect at Essex ; this is a space dedicated to the talented staff, teams, athletes and coaches part of the University of Essex Performance Sports and Scholarship programmes.
Follow us on socials
Performance Sport at Essex

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/fitness-classes:
We all have different goals in the gym.
And that’s where our selection of fitness classes comes into play.
Whether you’re looking for a high-intensity workout like cycle, Dance Fitness and Insanity®, a conditioning session like L1FT, Functional Fitness or Studio Pump, or our holistic classes like Pilates or Yoga, our fitness instructors offer members an unrivalled range of classes in fully air-conditioned, spacious and versatile fitness studios.
and as a Gold member you can join all our fitness classes; Silver memberships includes off peak classes (those before 3pm)
Details of the classes on offer, and how you can take part, can be found below.
For the most up-to-date & live timetable please check the Essex Sport App.
12.10pm - 12.50pm
Virtual strength
We offer virtual classes for some of our yoga, cycling and conditioning sessions.
This increasingly popular ‘Fitness on Demand’ approach gives you the flexibility to workout outside of normal class hours.
An instructor will always be on hand to get the class started and answer any questions you may have.
You can book these class through the Essex Sport app.
Ballet-inspired, low impact workout for better posture, strength and flexibility (with Arlene)
(All levels; Please bring your own mat)
Improve posture, develop mobility, tone and flexibility, strengthen core muscles (with Arlene)
(All levels; Please bring your own mat)
A fitness-based class that incorporates flexibility, strength, yoga postures and disciplines (with Tracy)
(All levels; Please bring your own mat)
Hatha Yoga, focus on postures, breathing exercises and relaxation (with Rod)
(All levels; Please bring your own mat)
30 minutes Express workout combining cardio and conditioning exercises (with Tracy)
(All levels; Please bring your own mat)
A high energy class combining steady pace, speed intervals and hill climbs for a challenging workout (with Dexter)
(All levels)
Fun and energetic dance-based workout (with Lizzie)
(All levels; Please bring your own mat)
Low impact conditioning class (with Denise)
(All levels; Please bring your own mat)
A fun and energetic STEP class suitable for all levels (with Denise)
(Please bring your own mat)
Tone up and build strength and stamina in this weights workout to music (with Clare)
(All levels; Please bring your own mat)
Build strength, flexibility and balance through challenging Vinyasa flows.
With Laura (All levels, please bring your own mat)
All classes are included within our Essex Sport Gold membership package, and classes taken before 3 pm are included within the Silver membership.
For Silver members who would like to attend a peak-time class, bronze members and non-members, the following fees apply:
About the classes
Class cancellations
Occasionally, due to unforeseen circumstances, the Sports Centre has to cancel classes at short notice.
In these instances, reception will inform you at the earliest opportunity.
The easiest and most accurate way to ensure you are marked as attended is by using your ID card to swipe through the turnstiles.
Our system will then automatically register you.
Therefore, i t is necessary to always bring your card with you.
Should you not have your card, you must report to reception to receive a ticket to swipe through the turnstiles.
Please note that asking a receptionist to open the gate for you may mean you are marked as absent and consequently fined or have access restricted.
If you wish to cancel your place, you must do so at least one hour before the class start time.
Cancellations can easily be done through our mobile app and online , or you can contact reception on 01206 873250.
The one hour window has been set for us to contact those on the waiting list and fill any spaces that become available.
We cannot accept cancellations with less than one hour's notice, as we will be unable to fill the remaining spaces.
Any cancellations received after this time will not be processed and marked as non-attended.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/childrens-activities:
At Essex Sport we offer a range of children's activities, from courses, to pay as you go lessons, to multisport holiday camps.
More details of our programme can be found below.
If you would like to talk about any of our programmes in more detail or require any help booking, email sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk or call our team on 01206 873250 .
To be the first to hear news about our children activities, make sure your marketing preferences are updated on your account.
Alternatively, you can register interest by emailing sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk
Already a member?
Make sure your marketing preferences are updated on your account, so all the latest information can be sent straight to your preferred email address.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome:
We can't wait to meet all our new students.
Welcome is your chance to get to know the University, meet like-minded people, make friends for life and see where you'll call home for the next few years.
We’re getting everything ready behind the scenes to help you settle in smoothly.
This page will soon be packed with everything you need to get started.
In the meantime, feel free to explore and learn more about life at Essex - and check back closer to the start of term for your full onboarding guide.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/before-you-arrive:
As you prepare to start this exciting new chapter, we're here to ensure your transition to university life is as smooth and enjoyable as possible.
Whether you're an undergraduate or postgraduate student, living locally or have joined us from overseas, someone with additional support needs or just want some advice, we’ve gathered all the essential pre-arrival information to help you feel confident and prepared.
From important registration details to accommodation, financial advice, and student support services, we've got everything covered so you can focus on making the most of your time at Essex.
Let’s get you started on this journey!
See our top tips of things to do before you arrive on campus.
We are proud to be a global community and we recognise that living and studying in the UK may be very different from your own country.
Make sure you read all the guidance for new international students to help you arrive and settle in to your new life at Essex.
If you have a disability, specific learning difficulty, long-term medical condition or mental health condition, you can register with our Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Team before you arrive so that we can consider your support needs.
You can register by emailing include@essex.ac.uk Find further information on what is available:
Our student communities page are a great source of information about all the support and services that are available to you if you're under 18 and coming to Essex.
Many people choose to live at home during University.
If this is you we have helpful information available to help support you during your Welcome Week , and during your time here.
It is not uncommon for mature and part-time students to find it difficult at first to juggle other commitments with their university life.
There are opportunities for you to contact others
in similar situations.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/information-for-families:
You've helped a new Essex student - your son, daughter, brother, sister, friend, carer or guardian - make a great decision by coming to study at Essex.
We hope the information on this page gives you a good overview about what a new student needs to do within the first few weeks of joining us, and the part you can play as someone who cares about them.
We value your vital supporting role as a family member of a new Essex student, and welcome you too
as a member of our university's community.
Starting university is an exciting time for any new student, but it can also
be a time of uncertainty; homesickness, making friends and adjusting to a degree-level course can all raise concerns
for new students.
If you're the family or friend of a new student, it can be a challenging experience for you too.
University is very different from school; your new Essex student's an adult now, responsible for their own
finances, academic attendance and performance, diet, social life, sleeping habits and everything
else that involves being a student.
For parents, because our relationship, as a university, is with the student,
you'll find that support advisors, personal tutors, lecturers, and accommodation staff won't be in a position to
speak to you about how your son or daughter is doing, due to our duties and responsibilities under the Data Protection Act.
However, that doesn't mean we can't listen to you, and suggest ways you could lend your support to help your new Essex student build resilience.
A good place for you to start is by getting familiar with the really broad range of support services we offer to students, alongside those offered independently by
our Students' Union.
Once you do so, you'll know where to guide your new Essex student,
if they need any extra help or advice.
During vacations, it is easy for students to get distracted and forget about their studies.
But students will often have coursework or exams due soon after the start of term.
While
it is the responsibility of the student to deal with their own studies, you can consider
how the home is encouraging them to do some coursework and revision.
Students often say that
a helpful study technique is chatting about what they’ve learnt with a family member.
It doesn’t
matter if they haven’t learnt the subject, because by chatting it through, they realise what
they have learnt and what they need to revise.
Chatting about what you’re learning can build
subject knowledge, and increase motivation to study.
You might even be interested
to read some of their work.
We also encourage new students to explore the Colchester, Southend or Loughton area surrounding their campus, and take a campus and library tour.
They may also want
to take part in the free sports sessions on offer, or join the gym at Colchester.
New students can familiarise themselves with the campuses at Colchester and Southend by using the Find-Your-Way map and smartphone app, it's pretty useful to know in advance of lectures and seminars where to go:
Our professional advice teams within your Student Services Hub and the Students' Union are here at every turn.
Every student also has access to
a personal tutor and our peer mentoring scheme is a great opportunity to tap into the knowledge and experience of a fellow student.
From time to time your family member may do less well in a piece of coursework or exam than
they had hoped or expected.
Although they may be disappointed it is important to remind them
that this is just one mark which can be easily recovered.
Also, school and college grades are
often higher than at university, so what might appear to be a low mark may actually be a good
mark.
You can find more information on our marking schemes in your family member's departmental handbook .
There are many ways for students to find out what is deemed to be a good mark and how they
can improve.
They can:
If they don’t know what they did well or how to improve, they can contact their lecturer,
their personal tutor or Skills for Success for advice.
Your family member can get a lot of support from their department:
If you’d like to find out more about your family member’s course, department and support services, take a
look at their departmental handbook .
Outside of the department, Essex builds the academic skills of students through Skills for Success .
Covering everything from maths,
reading and writing, to research skills, we offer a range of support to help your family member fulfil their
potential.
We also provide a wide range of courses to help students develop their IT skills.
Many students feel uncertain about continuing on their course.
This can be for a range of reasons.
Most students with doubts do continue.
If your family member has doubts during their course you might find
it helpful to read the information available to them and encourage them to do the same, including
contacting a staff member so that they can discuss their options.
The guidance includes who they can
contact depending on their circumstances so that they can make an informed decision.
Our community’s health and wellbeing are at the heart of everything we do.
Our student webpages contain helpful information that we encourage all students to
read before starting at Essex.
This includes guidance and advice on personal safety, health and wellbeing, money matters and much more.
We ask students for permission to liaise with a named friend or family member if we have a serious concern about their health and safety.
Students can give permission on MyEssex .
Essex students develop a sense of belonging and form lifelong friendships.
When it comes to 'the student experience' Essex students consistently rate us highly, we have one of the highest numbers of clubs and societies per student in the UK, and our campuses are friendly places.
Many people live at home during university and these students will often form friendships with other commuters .
It is not uncommon for mature students to find it difficult
at first to juggle other commitments with their university life.
There are opportunities for them to contact others
in similar situations.
The Essex community is diverse, and there many opportunities for students to meet others in similar
or different circumstances and experiences and to access relevant support.
We produce a regular newsletter for the friends and family of Essex students to keep them up-to-date with news and events from the University.
To sign up, email friends@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/international-students:
A warm welcome awaits you at Essex.
At Essex, you really will find the world in one place.
We are proud to be a global community but we recognise that living and studying in the UK may be very different from your own country.
The information below will help you prepare for your arrival and how to settle into university life so you can enjoy everything the University of Essex and the UK has to offer.
Our friendly and professional staff are on hand to guide, advise and assist you during your time at Essex.
We offer a wide range of support covering academic and health and well-being issues .
The British Council have an online course, designed to benefit international students who have been accepted to study at a UK university.
Managing your well being while studying in the UK will provide you with helpful information, support, and study skills for higher education, whilst giving you a taste of life in the UK.
If have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact our Student Information Team .
Find out more about the university's support services available to all our International students.
Hear from Rita, who studies journalism on her experience of moving to England to study at University.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/arrivals:
The time to join us has finally come!
We're excited to meet you and welcome you to Essex.
Find out all about what to do on arrivals weekend and how to get here.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research:
Our researchers are daring, visionary thinkers, constantly asking difficult questions and providing answers that give insights into your life.
We look at issues that affect you both now and in the future - from how your online footprint affects your human rights to how we can feed the world's growing population.
Our research shapes thinking and influences policy.
We've helped governments model the effects of their economic policies and shaped the global debate on mental health law reform.
At Essex we have a full range of expertise across our academic community.
As well as exploring our research groups, projects and topics you can also find out more about our Research Centres and Institutes , or find and academic based on their research interest and expertise.
The truth about the ‘great resignation’ – who changed jobs, where they went and why
In this blog post, Sean Andersson looks back at the first year of Essex's Open Access Fund.
This fund pays the processing charges many academic publishers levy for open access.
Every article, chapter or book published open access is freely available to download and share online, expanding reach and increasing impact.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/areas:
At the University of Essex, we pride ourselves on the breadth of research areas that we focus on.
As a dual-intensive University, our research tackles a range of subjects and areas across multiple disciplines and breaks the boundaries of what we currently know.
We impact globally the way people think and behave and pride ourselves on interdisciplinary study and activism.
Within our three faculties we have some of the most highly-rated research centres in the country with scholars asking critical questions and challenging conventions with their research.
At Essex we believe in research that allows people to take informed action.
Our University was founded on interdisciplinarity and activism, and we draw on a broad range of perspectives to investigate what it means to be human.
Digital Humanities (Area)
Humanities
Our departments host a range of research groups and areas of focus, in which our academics work together on their specialist interests.
Postgraduate research students are encouraged to join a group related to their area of interest, so they can benefit from the support of multiple experts beyond their supervisor.
Our Faculty is home to some of the most highly-rated research centres in the country.
We have a powerful group of scholars, asking critical questions and challenging convention through their world-leading social science research (REF 2021).
From how best to govern ourselves, to understanding society and how we acquire language, to how we conduct business and interact with each other, we answer profound questions.
Our centres and institutes are a meeting place for ideas.
A focus for our world-leading academics to share their expertise, to break through disciplinary boundaries and provoke new debates.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research-projects:
At Essex we strive to undertake research that has the potential to change the world.
Every project we support is directed by a desire to make a difference.
From creating a tool that helps governments test their economic policies before putting them in place, to coining the term and concept 'Green Exercise', our researchers continue to develop ground-breaking research that has the potential to transform lives.
A nature based intervention to improve mental health.
Research Project.
A nature-based intervention to improve mental health.
Principal Investigators.
Dr Nicholas Cooper.
Professor Sheina Orbell.
Dr Mike Rogerson.
A nature based intervention to
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/a-nature-based-intervention-to-improve-mental-health
Adaptive joint cognitive systems.
Adaptive joint cognitive systems for complex and strategic decision making.
Professor Riccardo Poli (University of Essex).
Professor Maryam Sanechi (University of Southern
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/adaptive-joint-cognitive-systems
Administrative Justice Virtual Hub.
Research project.
Menu.
This research project was established in 2014 and funded by the Nuffield Foundation for three years (2014-17) to kick
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/administrative-justice-virtual-hub
Explore the research project analysing the impact of a rule change in youth rugby whereby any player selected as part of a match day squad must play at least half a game or equivalent
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/age-grade-rugby
This project investigates the effects of healthy ageing on the brain network responsible for bimanual movement
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/ageing-motor-control-and-stroke-rehabilitation
This project will develop a Artificial Intelligence software that will help healthcare providers process routine documents
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/ai-system-for-patient-records-and-documentation
We're working with Mediterranean Shipping Company (MSC) to improve business decision making through the use of AI and data science.
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/ai-driven-digital-transformation
AI4healthsec.
AI4HEALTHSEC.
Principal Investigator.
Professor Haris Mouratidis.
The health sector is one of the biggest benefactors of the improvements in artificial intelligence and digitisation.
Huge amounts of health data
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/ai4healthsec
This research project aims to develop a computer algorithm that can be used for fair division of assets between individuals.
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/algorithmic-fair-division
An AI driven recommender system.
An AI-driven recommender system for housing-market predictions and decision making.
Dr Stella Hadjiantoni.
An AI-driven recommender system for housing-market
https://www.essex.ac.uk/research-projects/an-ai-driven-recommender-system

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/centres-and-institutes:
We’re recognised internationally for our globally important research with peaks of excellence in social sciences, human rights and data analytics.
We were awarded the UK’s first Regius Professorship of Political Science, Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for Human Rights and Social Sciences, and the world’s first UNESCO Chair in Analytics and Data Science.
Our flagship institutes bring together academics from across disciplines and departments to deliver research which offers significant practical insights and impact.
They engage with a wide range of external partners at a national and international level from NGOs and national governments through to the European Union and United Nations.
We conduct research into issues and challenges in data exploration and big data from a multitude of perspectives.
Our Institute for Analytics and Data Science (IADS) drives breakthroughs and innovation in a range of areas, including technologies for management and transfer of big data; methodological and analytical methods for different types of applications from financial and business to biomedical; and socio-economic aspects of data; and ethical, legal and human rights aspects of data.
The Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER) is funded and commissioned to undertake innovative and influential social and economic research, which looks at how people’s lives are changing over time.
Some health challenges seem impossible to overcome including rising obesity, infant and adult mortality, and a lack of fair access to mental health support.
At Essex, we believe good health and wellbeing for all is achievable by better addressing the multiple root causes of ill-health and by taking a collaborative, interdisciplinary and global approach.
Part of the Essex Law School
40 years pioneering the theory and practice of human rights from the local to the global.
Our centres cover a wide range of topics and provide hubs for our academics in these fields.
Some of our centres represent a single area within a department, while others are interdisciplinary with members from various departments coming together to focus on an issue.
Where our centres or research groups are interdisciplinary, they have been listed below in their lead department.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/showcase:
Winner: Celebrating Excellence in Research and Impact Awards 2021 - Best UK Public Policy
Winner: Celebrating Excellence in Research and Impact Awards 2021 - Early Career Researcher - Faculty of Humanities
Winner: Celebrating Excellence in Research and Impact Awards 2021 - Enterprise and Innovation

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/media-requests:
Our Media team can help you find amazing experts who can give you insights into the latest issues and trends.
Our researchers can help your readers and viewers to understand big issues and get fresh perspectives.
Our academics are leaders in their fields from art history to UK politics.
The Communications team provides support, advice and training to our academics ahead of interviews.
You might prefer to use FaceTime, Teams or Zoom for broadcast interviews, but we can provide access to a high-quality media studio if required.
This needs to be booked in advance to ensure technical support can be provided if necessary.
Please contact the Communications Office if you would like to speak with one of our experts.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/recognition/ref-results:
Essex is a powerhouse for social sciences and is in the top 10 in the UK for economics and econometrics, modern languages and linguistics, politics and international studies, and sociology.
We're also in the top 20 for art history, law and philosophy (Grade Point Average, Research Excellence Framework 2021).
The Research Excellence Framework 2021 (REF 2021) is the national assessment of research quality and impact at UK universities.
Universities are assessed across 34 subject-based units of assessments (UOAs) for research outputs, research impact and research environment.
Essex submitted to 17 UOAs - three more than the previous REF.
A panel of experts assess the originality, significance and rigour of research activity and judges the proportion which is 4* world-leading, 3* internationally excellent, 2* recognised internationally and 1* recognised nationally.
Our performance in specific areas of assessment shows Essex's strengths as a centre of research excellence.
Essex is ranked 1st for research impact in modern languages and linguistics, 1st for research environment in sociology and 2nd for research output in politics and international studies.
83% of our research output is world-leading or internationally excellent and three subjects were in the top 10 in the UK for research output.
100% of our research impact is world-leading or internationally excellent for 10 subjects and four subjects were in the top 10 for research impact.
100% of our research environment is world-leading or internationally excellent in seven subjects.
Three subjects are in the UK top 10 for research outputs – economics and econometrics, politics and international studies, and art history.
Four subjects are in the UK top 10 for research impact – computer science, sociology, modern languages and linguistics, and philosophy.
Four subjects are in the UK top 10 for research environment – economics, politics and international studies, sociology, and modern languages and linguistics.
Times Higher Education has published a research power measure for each subject area which accounts for the number of active researchers entered when looking at research strengths.
Essex is ranked in the top 10 in five subject areas for research power.
These are:
Other subjects ranked in the top 30 for research power are:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/categories/research:
Dr Crispus Mbaluto
07 July 2025
Professor Thankom Arun, Dr Shahidul Islam, Professor Muhammad Ismail Hossain
27 May 2025
Dr Shoba Arun
08 May 2025
Dr Nikhila Mahadevan
22 April 2025
Dr Dale Shaffer-Morrison
16 April 2025
Professor Marie Juanchich
11 April 2025
Essex Business School
10 April 2025
Dr Maria Filippetti
08 April 2025
Department of Sociology and Criminology
04 April 2025
Naomi Biggs
26 March 2025
Hannah Gibson, Sean Andersson
11 March 2025
Anna Dearman, Jasmine Ratcliff
24 February 2025
Sean Andersson, Dr Alison Barker
18 February 2025

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/business:
Whether you're seeking solutions to specific challenges, looking to enhance efficiency, or exploring new avenues for growth, we can help.
At Essex we have the expertise and track record to support the early stages of innovation in SMEs, through to the design and development of bespoke technology for global firms.
We’re business-led and hands on.
From scoping through to funding wins, and recruitment of high-quality talent through to project completion, we support our business collaborations every step of the way.
Get the best value for money when investing in new services.
Let us help you make informed, evidence-based decisions, and reduce the risks of change and innovation in your organisation.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/business/expertise/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
A KTP is a three-way collaboration between a business or not-for-profit organisation, an academic team and a qualified graduate.
The project can last between 1 to 3 years.
Funded by Innovate UK and Research Councils, KTPs are an established and successful initiative to drive innovation and growth through the transfer of expertise from a university to an external business.
They help you explore a new idea or strategy by adding the outside expertise you need.
And with up to 75% of the project cost funded, KTPs take the risk out of your innovation strategy.
From scoping through to funding wins, and recruitment of high-quality talent to project completion, we support our business collaborations every step of the way.
Follow our six simple steps below to help you understand if KTPs are right for your company.
Tell us about the challenge facing your business or a project idea you have to drive innovation and growth.
Meet with our KTP team to discuss our research and the area of Essex expertise suitable for your project.
Further meetings with our academic experts will help to shape a research agenda focused on delivering your desired outcomes.
Work with us to develop a funding application.
KTPs are funded by Innovate UK and Research Councils.
Together we'll recruit a high-calibre postgraduate who will be your research associate.
They will manage the KTP project and will be based at your business.
Start your one to three year project, support by the KTP team.
You'll have regular catch-ups between your academic, Innovate UK and the senior contact in your business, ensuring the project remains on track.
You will receive support throughout your KTP.
Your business will the have the option to explore further university opportunities after your project to help you with commercialisation and embedding.
KTPs help you gain a competitive edge and ultimately improve profitability through:
Our ambitions match yours.
From scoping through to funding wins, from recruitment of talent through to project completion.
Speak to us today to find out how we can help you with an KTP or an alternative funding opportunity today.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/business/knowledge-gateway:
Join us at the Knowledge Gateway, our research and technology park on our Colchester Campus.
It's the location of choice in the east for knowledge-based science, technology and digital creative companies.
Drawing on our global reputation for analytics and data science and outstanding support for SMEs, it's set to employ more than 2,000 people.
Set in mature parkland on our Colchester Campus, since 2010 the Knowledge Gateway has been growing apace, after an initial £13m investment to build roads and infrastructure.
Today, it's the home to SME hotspot Parkside Office Village , with more than 20 resident companies and another phase underway, plus our £21m carbon-neutral Essex Business School which opened in 2015.
The Knowledge Gateway's Innovation Centre provides the space plus the vital hands-on support to help 50 start-ups and small businesses scale-up and succeed plus it is also home to a state-of-the-art creative digital studio, Studio X.
Colchester offers many benefits as a base for your business.
It has rapid growth, with the population forecast to increase by 24% to 224,700 by 2031 backed by major regeneration efforts by Colchester Borough Council.
As well as a great range of shops and services, the area offers superb quality of life for employees, with Dedham Vale and Constable Country within a few miles, rural Suffolk to the north and the many picturesque Essex coastal towns and villages to the east, all easily commutable from the Knowledge Gateway.
Colchester has some of the best schools in the country, including two grammar schools, and a vibrant arts scene including the Firstsite visual arts centre, the Mercury Theatre and Colchester Arts Centre.
The Knowledge Gateway has designated space for small, medium and larger businesses choosing to design their own office space or headquarters, by working with our design and build team .
Get in touch with us to find out more.
Essex has secured more Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Partnership funding than any other university in the UK.
Through this programme, you could receive funding covering up to 75% of your project costs.
We will guide you through the entire process, drawing on a sector-leading track record of success.
Each project is commercially focused and powered by the university’s world-class research expertise.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/business/recruit-our-students-and-graduates:
Our students and graduates are:
Advertise your opportunities to our students and graduates for free by posting on our jobs board .
Reach hundreds of students in one day by attending one of our recruitment fairs.
We run several events throughout the year, if you'd like to know more about our plans for upcoming events, please take a look at our dedicated website , or email us at indsutryengagement@essex.ac.uk
Internships involve students working on a specific project or simply providing additional resource.
Placements are part of a student's course and inform a piece of assessed academic work.
You can find out more information about how to host both with our students on our dedicated employer site.
Employer project briefs are a great way to engage with our students, challenge their thinking, and gain a fresh perspective for your business.
Project brief opportunities come in different forms, from undergraduates to professionals studying the Essex MBA.
Please take a look at our employer site , or email us at industryengagement@essex.ac.uk to find out more about our projects.
Mentoring is known to be one of the most effective methods of promoting student success within Higher Education.
Volunteering as an Career Mentor is your opportunity to be part of that success.
If you are interested in becoming a Mentor please email us at industryengagement@essex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/business/education:
We offer a range of  executive education courses and continuing professional development.
Plus you can partner with us on higher and degree apprenticeship schemes.
Our degree and higher apprenticeships combine on-the-job training and academic study, so whether you're an employer who needs to develop skilled and qualified employees or a prospective apprentice who wants a head-start in the workplace, we'll guide you through your options.
Working with businesses local to Essex and the East of England, the Essex MBA harnesses the entrepreneurial nature of the region to develop innovative business leaders and pro-active managers for your organisation.
The Essex MBA is accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA).
Less than 2% of business schools can boast this accolade for their MBA and the AMBA affiliation can add huge value to an MBA qualification.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about:
We are determined to do things differently and put student success at the centre of everything we do.
We're committed to two things: excellence in teaching and excellence in research.
We put student success at the heart of our mission, supporting every student from every background to achieve outstanding outcomes; preparing our students to thrive in their future lives.
Our determination to make a difference in society means we’re ranked 58th in the global Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024 , which ranked more than 1,400 universities around the world.
Making an impact through our research is at the heart of our University.
We're in the UK top 10 for research quality in four subjects (Grade Point Average, REF2021) and in the UK top 10 for research power in five subjects (Times Higher Education 2022).
Find out more about our REF2021 performance .
We are open about our aims and how we want to achieve them.
Our strategy sets out our ambitions for 2028 .
On these pages you'll find more on our plans, our finance, our senior team and how we work.
A brave new vision for our University
How it all stacks up
Curiosity-invoking, boundary-pushing, inspirational

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/governance-and-strategy:
We are open about the journey we are on.
100,000 graduates have so far made us what we are and taken our Essex Spirit out into the world.
Our Strategy sets out our plans for growth and the steps we will take to build on our success for the benefit of the next Essex generations.
On these pages you can see our strategy, our finances, our top team and how we are governed.
Committed to excellence
Management of the University
Our vision for 2028

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/visit-us:
We understand that coming to events is a really important part of choosing the right university for you:
Planning your visit?
Find out how to get to us , including travel directions and getting around our campuses.
We can also show how to make the most of your visit with our campus services and facilities information.
Any questions?
Find out how to contact us and get in touch today.
Information to help you plan your journey and to let you know about our campus services and facilities.
Discover the place you could be calling home

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/graduation:
Our next Graduation will take place during the week commencing 13 July 2026.
Planning for this special event will start very soon.
At this time, we're unable to provide any information or timings for graduation ceremonies.
As soon as information is available we will publish it here.
We'll also contact all students who are due to graduate, early in 2026.
If you have any other enquiries about Graduation you can contact the team at graduation@essex.ac.uk
We’re so proud of our Class of 2025.
Join us in celebrating how they've overcome challenges, helped others, grasped opportunities, developed their skills, and shown their Essex Spirit in so many ways.
Being a part of our alumni community means you’re entitled to a wide range of benefits including discounts, networking events, memberships, career support and so much more.
From events and workshops, to one-to-one guidance and personal awards, we will help you feel ready to start job hunting.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments:
In the latest Research Excellence Framework we have five subjects in the UK top 10 for research power across the social sciences, arts and humanities, and science and health – sociology, law, economics and econometrics, politics and international studies and computer science (REF 2021).
Our Faculty of Arts and Humanities offers a unique, research-led student experience across a broad range of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes.
Our Faculty's outstanding reputation for research was confirmed by the 2021 Research Excellence Framework, with Essex ranked in the top 20 for research excellence in Philosophy and Art History (REF 2021).
Our faculty also includes:
Students at our Faculty of Science and Health develop the skills to address global issues and benefit people, the environment and society.
They are learning from scientists who are working on vital issues including the nature of ageing, the meaning of genes, the future of the internet and the survival of coral reefs and climate change.
Essex is a centre of world-leading excellence for the social sciences with four social science subjects in the UK top 10 for research quality (REF 2021).
Our Faculty of Social Sciences is home to some of the most highly-rated social science departments and research centres in the country.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/visit-us/open-days:
Our next events are our Clearing Open Days on our Colchester and Southend campuses.
Essex Open Days are your chance to chat with students and staff, tour our campuses, listen to talks from academics and get a feel for what life at Essex is really like.
All of our Open Days are on-campus and in-person.
Bookings for our 2025 Open Days are now open!
Are you thinking about a behind-the-scenes career in theatre, film, TV or live events?
Our East 15 Acting School is running Stage Management Visit Days at our Loughton campus, offering the opportunity to learn more about the BA (Hons) Stage Management (with pathways) course, explore our facilities and meet staff and students.
You can book a place by completing the form for the following dates:
Book your place for one of our on-campus Open Days and we'll make sure you have all of the information you need to make the most out of your day.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/news:
Tue 5 Aug 25
Tue 19 Aug 25
Tue 12 Aug 25
Fri 8 Aug 25
Wed 27 Aug 25
Fri 22 Aug 25
Thu 21 Aug 25
Mon 18 Aug 25
Fri 15 Aug 25
Wed 13 Aug 25

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/events:
Undergraduate, postgraduates and family members - everyone is welcome at our on-campus Essex Open Day.
09:00 - 16:00
Open Days
09:00
08:00
Colchester Campus
14:00
15:00 - 15:30
14:00 - 17:00
15:00 - 16:30
Online
19:00 - 21:00
09:30 - 16:45
13:00
11:00 - 14:00

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog:
Essex Law Clinic
19 August 2025
Sustainability Team, Dimitri Lera
Marketing and Student Recruitment
14 August 2025
Law Events and Communications team
11 August 2025
Hanna Jones, Lakeside Theatre
07 August 2025
Sean Andersson, Dr Samuel Singler
06 August 2025
30 July 2025
Sustainability Team
24 July 2025
Michelle Rushbrooke
23 July 2025
Sama Elamin
17 July 2025

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/alumni:
Whether you’re a recent graduate, or it’s been a long time since you studied with us, we’re here to  help keep you involved with the University and your alumni network.
No matter where life takes you, we want you to feel part of our community forever and we hope you continue to share the Essex Spirit long after your graduation day.
Essex alumni on social media:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/donate:
Our University was built on a vision that our people, and our work, could change the world for the better.
Essex would be freer and more daring than the rest.
This founding ideology remains at the heart of everything we do.
From educating the next generation of talent to pioneering research, state-of-the-art facilities and campus activities; we have built an institution that is known for its excellence in both research and education, for its bold people and for its hunger to make a difference.
Your support, ideas and insight all form a crucial part of the Essex Spirit - providing the margin of excellence, improving and transforming lives around the world.
With your help, we can address some of the biggest problems society is facing, from protecting the human rights of the most vulnerable to caring for an ageing population and conserving our natural environment.
Every penny you donate to Essex will go directly to the cause you choose.
If you would like to make an online donation to the university, please complete our form and choose whether you wish to make a one-time or a recurring gift.
At Essex, we believe in the power and potential of our students and are committed to investing in their education, growth, and success.
Through generous philanthropic support, we provide scholarships and bursaries to ensure that deserving students have access to a world-class Essex education, regardless of their background or financial circumstances.
By investing in our students, we are investing in the future leaders, innovators, and trailblazers who will make a positive impact on society.
We are dedicated to pushing the boundaries of knowledge through transformative research.
We look at issues that affect society both now and in the future, producing research that shapes thinking and influences policy.
With the support of philanthropic partners, we are able to undertake ground-breaking studies and investigations that tackle the most pressing challenges of our time.
Philanthropic support plays a crucial role in shaping the future of our campuses, allowing us to create state-of-the-art facilities and spaces that inspire learning, collaboration, and creativity.
We invest in modern infrastructure, cutting-edge technology, and innovative teaching environments to provide students with the best possible education and campus experience,
Through philanthropy, we can transform our campuses into vibrant hubs of knowledge, discovery, and community engagement, preparing our students for the challenges and opportunities of the future.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges:
Our Outreach and Student Recruitment teams offer a dynamic range of free activities and events - both in person and virtual - for primary school, secondary school, sixth form and college students, across the UK and around the world.
Information and advice is also available for teachers, advisers and counsellors, alongside bespoke events, CPD opportunities and our Annual Teachers’ and Advisers’ Conference,  to help you in supporting students to make informed decisions about progression to Higher Education.
We also extend our support to parents, guardians and carers .
We’re proud to have ‘the world in one place’ here at Essex, so have opportunities for EU and international schools and colleges to connect with us, as well as those based here in the UK.
We unlock opportunities for young people across Essex by helping them make informed choices about their education and future.
Based at the University of Essex, Make Happen is part of the Office for Students’ UniConnect programme, and we’re one of 29 national partnerships that bring together teachers from schools and colleges, with universities and other local educational partners, to offer activities, advice and information on the benefits and realities of going to university or college to study a degree, or to take a degree apprenticeship.
We are also dedicated to supporting school students’ exploration of the world of work and career progression.
Our work has a particular focus on areas of the county where participation in higher education is lower than might be expected, given the GCSE results of the young people who live there.
We started in 2016, and by 2024 we have engaged with over 102,034 unique learners across the county, from 350 schools and further education colleges through our activities – and we have achieved a total of 2,212 engagements with parents and carers.
These have ranged from university taster days to mentoring programmes, and study skills workshops to aspirational careers programmes.
We continue to deliver a varied programme of activities to the same partner schools and colleges – with all of our work being supported by continuous evaluation of our programme’s effectiveness.
Ask us about:
The University of Essex Schools and Colleges Liaison Team work with schools and colleges across the UK and around the world.
The team focuses resources to support schools in enabling post-16 students to make informed higher-education decisions.
The team coordinates our Essex Open Days, Offer Holder Days, and UCAS exhibition, in addition to our schools-focused events and bespoke on-campus activity and delivering sessions in schools and colleges.
The Outreach team co-ordinate multiple activities and events throughout the year including Teacher CPD opportunities, a podcast series and online short courses.
Using teacher feedback, we design our events to increase attainment, raise aspirations and help young people make informed decisions about study routes and career progression.
We predominantly work with students from underrepresented groups, including those who are the first in their family to enter Higher Education, those from particular socioeconomic backgrounds, and those from certain ethnic and racial minority groups.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sustainability:
The University of Essex has committed to reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2035.
We declared a Climate and Ecological Emergency on 9 December 2020.Our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions have fallen by 55% compared with the peak in 2012 (based on emissions for the 2023-24 academic year).
In October 2019, we switched our electricity contract to a provider which produces 100% certified carbon neutral energy.
This covers all three of our campuses and supports our efforts to continually reduce our carbon emissions.
We currently generate approximately 8% of our electricity from our solar panels, with projects under way to install more.
We do not invest in fossil fuel companies, arms companies, or corporations complicit in the violation of international law.
Read our Statement of Investment Principles to find out more.
The University has committed a capital budget of £14 million up to 2030 to invest directly in carbon reduction and energy efficiency projects, and we will seek additional funding resources externally for specific projects.
Sustainability is a fundamental part of our future planning and is directly referenced as an objective in the University’s strategy for 2019-28.
We consider finding solutions for environmental issues to be a key factor in the educational experience of each student.
UoE Sustainability on social media:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/global:
Internationalism is central to everything we do.
We are 15th for international outlook in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024.
At Essex you’ll find the world in one place.
We’ve established strong partnerships with over 300 international institutions and close cooperation with these partners is central to our strategic aims to achieve excellence in education and excellence in research.
Our international outlook is evident in our research, changing the world for the better.
We also embed internationalism into our teaching, encouraging students to become global citizens and to spend time studying or working abroad.
Our student body represents over 140 nationalities and supports over 30 different cultural societies.
Request our Global Partnerships Prospectus 2023 by emailing internationalvisits@essex.ac.uk
If you’re an international student interested in studying with us and want to discover more about living and learning at Essex, download our prospectus or order a printed copy.
You can also find out more in our country-specific information .
These pages include details about any upcoming visits to your region as well as contact details for the regional office or student recruitment officer responsible for your country.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/contact:
There are lots of ways to get in touch with us at Essex.
We welcome comments and enquiries about any of our services.
Got a question about a course or want to know more about life at Essex?
Register your interest with us and we’ll keep you up-to-date with the latest news from Essex, your subject, and your department.
Corporate Communications Office
Telephone: +44 (0)1206 874467
Email: comms@essex.ac.uk
University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park, Colchester CO4 3SQ, United Kingdom
Colchester Campus Reception: Telephone: +44 (0)1206 873333
Direct dialling extension numbers
UK callers should prefix 01206 87 to the four-digit extension number.
International callers should prefix +44 1206 87 to the four-digit extension number.
You can find contact numbers for individuals at Essex through our people search .
The majority of our staff are currently working at home and may not answer their work phone number.
University of Essex, Southend Campus, Elmer Approach, Southend-on-Sea SS1 1LW, United Kingdom
Southend Campus Reception: Telephone: +44 (0)1702 328200
Direct dialling extension numbers
UK callers should prefix 01702 32 to the four-digit extension number.
International callers should prefix +44 1702 32 to the four-digit extension number.
East 15 Acting School, University of Essex, Hatfields, Rectory Lane, Loughton IG10 3RY, United Kingdom
Loughton Campus reception: Telephone: +44 (0)20 8508 5983
UK callers should phone 0208 508 5983, then add extension when connected if known.
International callers should phone +44 (0)208 508 5983, then add extension number when connected if known.
More information can be found on our Estates and Facilities Helpdesk web pages
Email: enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0)1206 873333
Clearing: +44 (0)1206 873666
University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park, Colchester CO4 3SQ
Got a question about a course or want to know more about accommodation at Essex?
Fill out our online enquiry form or talk to us on live chat and we'll be happy to answer any queries you have.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/jobs:
We believe a person's potential is not simply defined by grades or backgrounds, but by a willingness to question, to collaborate and to push at the edges of knowledge and their own potential.
At the University of Essex we've been challenging conventions since 1964 – come and challenge us!
Essex provides a home for the tenacious, the bold, the inquisitive and those impatient for change.
From pioneering research to student activism, we have never accepted the status quo.
We share an equal commitment to excellence in education and excellence in research and we are on a quest to appoint people who will help us achieve our goals.
We are home to a truly global community for original thinkers who seek to change the world for the better.
Part of an elite group of ‘dual intensive’ universities.
Essex is 15th for international outlook in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2024.
We are committed to:
Our staff and students are members of the University for life, working together in a research-led educational environment to inspire us to want to explore and embrace what we do not yet know.
As an employer, we offer a range of benefits and a commitment to career development and equal opportunities in an environment that both reflects and creates a rich interaction of people, disciplines and ideas.
If you have any questions and can't find the answers, please email resourcing@essex.ac.uk
When you come to work with us you join a top-ranking research-intensive university committed to delivering high-quality teaching in a friendly and supportive environment, internationally significant research and innovation and enterprise.
We’re a university where curiosity prevails, and where exploring new ways of thinking and pushing boundaries, isn’t just encouraged, it’s expected.
At Essex our people are at the centre of everything we do and we aspire to build a culture in which every member of the University feels valued and can flourish.
We are committed to equality of opportunity, to being fair and inclusive.
We therefore particularly encourage applications from candidates who are likely to be underrepresented in our workforce.
These include people from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic backgrounds; disabled people and LGBTQ+ people and from women for our grades 9-11 roles.
Read more about our commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
Find out more about the University's pledge to honour the Armed Forces Covenant.
The University of Essex is proud to have been recognised as a University of Sanctuary.
Find out more about how this benefits our staff, students, and the local community.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student:
Returning student accommodation applications for the academic year 2025-2026 are now open.
If you're currently studying at Essex or have completed a degree with us before, you could save 33% on the first year of your next degree.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/staff:
Stay connected with the latest news, views and research from our University staff community.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/doctoral-training-partnerships:
Our Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) and Landscape Awards offer you skills training and funding for your postgraduate research.
Join one and you'll work alongside leading academics in your subject.
Our three partnerships are funded by UK Research Councils, or other bodies, and have various names such as Doctoral Training Centres, Centres for Doctoral Training, Doctoral Landscape Awards or Doctoral Training Partnerships.
They all offer you the same benefit: gain the skills and knowledge needed to tackle key issues facing our world today.
Click on the links below to each of our Doctoral Training Partnerships and Landscape Awards - ARIES , CHASE and SENSS - to find out more information.
This Leverhulme Doctoral Training Programme is founded on world leading expertise in areas of environmental sustainability drawn across five core disciplines at the University – Life Sciences, Law, Sociology, Government and Business.
Its purpose is to train the next generation of interdisciplinary doctoral scholars with skills and expertise to contribute to ‘sustainable transitions’ at local, national and international levels.
Besides the funding that our DTPs can provide, if you're thinking of starting a research degree at Essex, there are a range of other funding options and discounts which may be available to you, such as:
Visit our fees and funding page to learn more about how much it costs to study a research degree at Essex and explore our alternative sources of funding.
We want to enable as many people as possible to undertake a postgraduate research degree, to help you pursue ground-breaking research and make a difference in the world.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/opportunities:
Are you looking for a postgraduate research opportunity?
We offer a wide variety of studentships and other research opportunities throughout the year.
As a research student, you'll work with at least one academic supervisor and be given research training to help you gain skills in research methodology.
Please read the adverts carefully as different projects may have different types of funding available.
We offer two PhD projects that aim to advance biological embodied biocomputing systems that merge artificial intelligence with the innate adaptability and self-repair capabilities of biological entities, further promoting sustainability while running under at target carbon-neutral operation levels.
Department: School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering
Closing date: 22 August 2025
The University of Essex is host organisation for the NIHR INSIGHT programme for the East of England.
The programme funds up to 30 research Masters places each year for health and social care professionals.
Funding covers tuition fees and a stipend, and you can study full-time (one year) or part-time (two years).
Throughout the year departments in the Faculty of Social Sciences and Faculty of Arts and Humanities may advertise studentships and available projects.
More information on supervision and applicant criteria can be found on the individual studentship pages, which will be advertised here when available.
This is an opportunity to conduct fully funded interdisciplinary research under the Sustainable Transitions Leverhulme Doctoral Training Programme at the University of Essex.
Each research project will be interdisciplinary in nature and supervised by expert academics drawn from two (and in certain instances three) of the following five disciplines at the University - Business, Government, Law, Life Sciences and Sociology - to address specific challenges.
There are ten different projects that you can apply for under the programme:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/clearing/courses:
Take a look at our full list below and find the right course for you.
All our BA , BSc , LLB and integrated Masters programmes are Honours degrees.
Full-Time
Study Abroad
Placement Year
On our BA Drama course you develop a range of creative, critical and practical skills that open doors to a future in the theatre and cultural industries.
BA History allows you to explore challenging questions about the impact of political, social and cultural change on individuals, social groups and regions.
Satisfy your curiosity about how our mind works and what drives human behaviour.
Experiment, explore and research why we think, feel and act the way we do.
We take philosophy back to its roots in everyday existential, social, and political problems.
We embrace the relevance of philosophy to other forms of enquiry.
Gain insight into financial data modelling on our virtual trading floor and learn portfolio analysis and financial decision making on this undergraduate degree.
Our BSc Statistics course combines a well-rounded mathematical core with specialist modules in statistics and data analysis.
This course includes a foundation year (Year Zero), followed by a further three or four years of study depending on whether you study abroad for a year
Our BSc Microbiology covers the different kinds of microbes and novel approaches to studying them so you can help resolve global crises.
Explore what connects people together as well as what divides them.
Study topics such as digital media and society, sexualities, crime and childhood.
We currently have places available in Clearing across a range of
courses, with most offers at BBC–CCD (112–88 UCAS tariff points) or equivalent.
Grade requirements may be lower in some cases, and some courses
may also have subject specific requirements.
We consider each application
individually so get in touch if your grades are below those outlined here.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-faqs:
If you’ve got questions about Clearing, you’re not alone.
Every year we get asked questions by students just like you, so here are our  answers.
Everything you need to know about Clearing, all in one place (you’re welcome).
Clearing is open now.
If you have your results you can now apply through our website.
Not all of our courses will be available in Clearing.
Our Course Finder will show ‘In Clearing’ if a course is open.
Absolutely.
If your results are better than you were expecting or you’ve changed your mind about what you want to study you can use Clearing to switch your course.
Yes, if you are holding an Unconditional Firm place somewhere, you can release yourself into Clearing via UCAS Hub using the 'decline my place' option.
You should only do this when you know you have an offer from another university.
Otherwise, you could be left with nothing!
Yes, we consider a range of qualifications for entry to Essex.
If you make a Clearing application using our online Clearing form, please make sure you include the full title of your qualification, the year it was taken and your grades.
If you have any certificates or transcripts of your qualifications, please make use of the document uploader on the online Clearing form to send these to us with your application, especially if these are not standard UK qualifications.
This will often help us make our decision more quickly.
Yes, you can still apply to Essex then if we are able to offer you a place we will send you instructions of how to complete our Direct Application form to confirm your place.
No, Clearing is only for undergraduate programmes.
Yes, check out our international students' guide to Clearing for more information.
This will vary by course but entry requirements during Clearing will be lower than during the main application cycle.
It’s unlikely we would be able to make a decision on your application without all of your grades so we would advise you wait until you have all of your results before you apply.
If you make a Clearing application using our webform, please use the document uploader to provide us with copies of any relevant transcripts or documentation, especially if you have not taken your qualifications in the UK.
Yes, you can find out more about the scholarships we have available and find out whether you're eligible on our Scholarships page.
Yes, just make sure you provide your application number (if you still have it) and answer 'Yes' to the question on our application form that asks 'Have you already applied to Essex this year' or let the operator know this information if you give us a call.
If you have previously been rejected for a course after receiving your results or after attending a compulsory interview, then unfortunately you cannot re-apply for the same course.
However if you would like to be considered for a different course, or you have additional information/qualifications to provide since your original application then you can make a new Clearing application.
Many East 15 courses are available through Clearing each year.
You can apply using our Clearing webform and we’ll invite you to an online audition (for acting and performance courses) or an online interview (for technical and production courses).
All acting & performance courses at East 15 require you to attend an online audition.
This is because we haven't been able to offer you a place on the course you originally applied for.
This is most likely to be because the course you applied for is full or you were not eligible.
However, the good news is that we have been able to offer you an alternative course.
Use our course finder to find out more about the alternative course you have been offered.
We may have offered you a degree with an integrated foundation year if you didn’t meet the entry requirements for Year One of the degree.
During your foundation year you’ll study within our Essex Pathways Department, taking modules which are relevant to your chosen degree, along with academic skills modules that enable you to succeed at undergraduate level.
It is a great way to improve your confidence before starting your first year of undergraduate study in your subject department.
Our Essex Pathways department is based at our Colchester campus and has experienced teaching staff who are dedicated to preparing you to make the transition into your subject department in Year One.
From the very first moment you arrive at Essex Pathways, you will feel part of our community.
Additionally, you are guaranteed University accommodation for your foundation year if you make us your firm choice and apply by the published accommodation deadline.
Upon successful completion of your foundation year within Essex Pathways you are guaranteed progression onto the first year of the a related degree, with the remainder of the course taught within your department.
Further information can be found on our Essex Pathways Department page.
If you receive a Clearing offer and accept your Essex Clearing offer, you will receive further information from us about your CAS via email once we have done all our checks and confirmed your place.
More information about CASs can be found on our immigration pages.
If you have received a Clearing offer and you would like to accept it, please add Essex as your Clearing choice by following the instructions in the email you will have received.
We don’t have a fixed deadline to do this but as demand for places is high, we recommend doing this as soon as you can.
This will allow you to secure your place and apply for accommodation.
You can apply for accommodation at Essex once you’re holding an unconditional firm place.
Details of how to apply will be included in the email we send to confirm your offer.
You can also arrange your own private accommodation through SU Homes .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/clearing/international:
At Essex we pride ourselves on our truly global community.
Our student body comprises of over 140 nationalities, each celebrated and welcomed to our proudly diverse and multicultural campuses.
There are so many reasons for you to call Essex home.
We’re 17th for international outlook in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025.
We’re ranked 23rd in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
86% of our graduates are in employment or further study (Graduate Outcomes 2025).
Clearing is a process used by UK universities to fill available undergraduate spaces for the upcoming academic year once the main application cycle has closed in June.
Clearing is open to all prospective undergraduate students regardless of nationality or age.
Region and country specific information is available.
We are able to accept a number of international qualifications for clearing and welcome hundreds of international students on our campuses every year.
If you would like to discuss your application with a member of our team looking after students from your country or region, you can find their details on our country pages .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/clearing/events:
Are you thinking of applying to Essex through Clearing?
How better to get to know us than by meeting us, on campus or online...

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/colchester-campus:
Home to 15,000 students from more than 130 countries, our Colchester Campus is the largest of our three sites, making us one of the most internationally diverse campuses on the planet - we like to think of ourselves as the world in one place.
Set within 200 acres of award-winning parkland - Wivenhoe Park and located two miles from the historic city centre of Colchester – England's oldest recorded development.
Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
A view of our Colchester Campus with the Albert Sloman Library in the foreground.
Students enjoy a drink and a game of pool in Top Bar
A student places a painting in the ESCALA collection
International students hit the dance floor at The In-Between
Essex Sport Arena
Art Exchange Gallery
Silberrad Student Centre
Climbing wall
Sports Therapy Clinic
group of students walking across Colchester Campus squares
Colleagues in Crumbs coffee shop serving customers on Colchester Campus
Essex life at Colchester Campus squares
Student studying in the library
The Lakes at Wivenhoe Park - submitted by Sarika Singh

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/southend-campus:
Our Southend Campus is based in the heart of this vibrant and modern seaside city.
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips?
Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Famous for its beach resort and pier, the city of Southend-on-Sea stretches along seven miles of award-winning coastline , providing plenty of opportunities for a wide range of water sports and leisure activities.
Our campus is located right in the centre of the city, with access to shops, restaurants and nightlife and is just a 10-minute walk to Southend's famous pier and beaches.
Want to experience our capital city?
Hop on a train from Southend Victoria or Southend Central and you can be in central London in under an hour.
Take the train to the end of the world's longest pleasure pier
Students outside The Forum in Southend
Hang out with friends, grab a coffee or find a quiet place to study in our SU Lounge
Situated behind the high street, our campus is right in the heart of this lively coastal city, utilising many of the great cultural and sporting facilities Southend has to offer.
You can check out the layout of our campus on our Southend Campus map .
The Forum is home to a state of the art library and learning hub, with lecture and seminar rooms.
The Gateway building is where our academic departments are based and is also the place for relaxing in our Student's Union lounge.
University Square Accommodation is your home away from home, just two minutes from the Gateway Building but still close to Southend's shops and nightlife
Our campus is conveniently located and easy to reach by car, train or bus so if you want to pay us a visit, take a look at our travel information .
Many of our students commute to uni.
It's a great option that can help save money, and give you maximum flexibility if you have other commitments such as family or work.
But you absolutely won't miss out on all the great stuff that university life has to offer.
Commuting doesn't mean compromising.
With close access to train and bus services, our Southend Campus is an easy commute from other parts of Essex and London.
There are also great travel discounts available to students.
If you need to drive, there are plenty of nearby car parks.
We've also got loads of commuter-friendly facilities such as lockers to store your stuff, commuter kitchens and quiet zones for study or downtime.
Find out more about how we support commuting students and the Students' Union's Commuters' Hub .
You're a part of Essex life, wherever you live.
Now's the time to get to know us better to really find out what we're all about.
And the best way to do it?
Come and visit.
We understand travelling here isn't always easy, so you can now access a virtual tour of our Southend campus from the comfort of your own home.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/loughton-campus:
You’ll be in intensive training at one of the most prestigious and internationally respected conservatoires in the country, gaining the skills and knowledge necessary to pursue a career in the performing arts.
You'll arrive at a campus with state-of-the-art study and performance facilities, nestled in the stunning grounds of a country house.
But fear not!
It’s not all work and no play at East 15 Acting School in Loughton and you're just a short step away from the bright lights and big city of central London.
Our Loughton Campus is perfectly located, providing access to both the rich cultural diversity of London and a peaceful rural setting in which to study.
Situated on the edge of Epping Forest, a 6,000-acre ancient woodland, but also just a five-minute walk from Debden Underground station, where you can hop on a Central line train to London’s shops, restaurants and theatres, Loughton Campus has the best of all worlds.
Shared space at our Loughton Campus
Lake at Hatfields
Loughton Campus Library
Unit 4 Workshop
Theatre stage
Students gather outside the Loughton SU cafe
Loughton campus SU Cafe counter
Our East 15 Acting School Loughton Campus consists of three sites:
Hatfields, a beautiful Georgian dower house, set in five acres of lawns with orchards, flowerbeds and a small lake, providing an idyllic atmosphere for study, relaxation and performance.
Roding House contains our rehearsal rooms, a green room/café, a sound recording studio, video editing suite, and our costume department.
Unit Four is home to the Stage & Production Management department and contains a large workshop, paint shop, prop shop, storage facilities and teaching spaces.
For more details on our state-of-the art performance facilities, visit our Loughton Campus facilities page .
Our campus is conveniently located and easy to reach by car, train or bus so if you want to pay us a visit, take a look at our travel information
MAP
We understand travelling here isn't always easy, so you can now access virtual tours of our Loughton Campus from the comfort of your own home.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/study-online:
Kaplan Open Learning has been working in partnership with the University of Essex since 2007 to deliver 100% online and part-time undergraduate and postgraduate degrees as well as short courses.
University of Essex Online today has students from over 170 countries worldwide and over 3,000 have successfully graduated with us.
Get a prospectus to find out more about our online programmes.
Your learning and assessments are completed 100% online and awarded by the University of Essex.
Qualifications are recognised worldwide a and on completion of your course you will be invited to attend graduation on campus.
Interested to learn more?
Explore the range of online courses we offer.
Find out more about University of Essex Online, and how online study could work for you
Explore our range of online courses
Complete the form and download a prospectus today

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/forms/prospectus-request:
Unlock everything you need to know about studying with us!
Fill out the form to gain instant access to our digital prospectus and explore our courses, facilities, and student life.
If you're in the UK, you can also request a beautifully printed copy to be delivered straight to your door.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/disclaimer:
We make every effort to ensure that our web content is accurate.
Occasionally, it can be necessary to make changes.
For example, we may need to make changes to courses, facilities or fees due to legitimate staffing, financial, regulatory or academic reasons.
Examples of why we may need to make changes include:
Changes to courses may, for example, consist of:
We will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum and will also keep prospective students informed appropriately by updating our Programme Specifications.
A robots.txt file tells search engine crawlers known as bots, which pages or files the crawler can or cannot request from your site.
When a search bot reaches a website it will only index a certain amount of pages, and as such it’s important for us that only those pages that are really suitable for you will be indexed.
We use a robots.txt to make life easier for you therefore, by telling search engines which pages are unhelpful for you.
Examples of pages that we might exclude from our index are:
We never add pages to our robots.txt without fully exploring the impact of the page, should it be found on search engines.
Wherever these pages would be unhelpful to you when found on search engines we may choose to include it within this file.
You can view our robots.txt file here:
Any inaccuracies in web content should be reported to the Web Editing and Digital Media team at wedm@essex.ac.uk .
Unless explicitly stated to the contrary, all text, images, design and
other content is copyright © University of Essex and all rights are
reserved.
Individuals may download, retain and copy website content for
their personal use only.
Requests for any other reproduction of website
content should be made to wedm@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/disclaimer/accessibility-hub:
We aim to achieve the recommended government standard for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines and follow general principles of usability, which should help all visitors to our website.
The University of Essex intends to continue improving our accessibility and we are working towards improving our digital services.
By taking this approach we hope to make our site as inclusive as possible.
Please find advice from AbilityNet , showing users how to make full use of accessibility settings in browsers and operating systems.
To find more information please see an overview of the Web Accessibility Initiative .
If you need information on this website/s in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 10 days.
In addition to the above website statements there are number of other University websites which sit outside of the main University infrastructure and are managed locally by individual teams or employees.
These sites have not been audited and are as such assumed to be non-compliant with the guidelines.
These websites will be audited, retired, or migrated onto the main University website, and therefore be included within one of the statements above or listed separately by September 2025.
A full list of these websites can be found within the non-compliance section of the corporate website template.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/disclaimer/privacy-statements:
Privacy notices explain what personal information or “data” an organisation holds about you, and how that data is stored, used and kept safe.
Personal data is any information, held in any form, that relates to you as an identifiable individual.
It does not include data where the identity has been removed (anonymous data).
There are "special categories" of more sensitive personal data which require a higher level of protection.
We have divided our privacy notice into sections to make it easier to read only the sections relevant to you, please be aware that multiple sections may apply depending on your relationship with the University.
The content of this page and all the paragraphs included in it apply equally to, and should be read in conjunction with, all the other sections.
If you would like a privacy notice in another format (for example: audio or large print), please contact us.
The University of Essex is an exempt charity, and our registered address is Wivenhoe Park, Colchester, CO4 3SQ.
The University of Essex is registered as a Data Controller with the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
Registration Number: Z699129X.
University of Essex Campus Services is a wholly-owned subsidiary company of the University.
It is a private limited company and its company number is 02534817.
University of Essex Campus Services is registered as a Data Controller with the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
Registration Number: ZA559904.
Wivenhoe House Hotel is also a wholly-owned subsidiary of the University and its registered company number is 07075571.
Wivenhoe House Hotel Limited is registered as a Data Controller with the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
Registration Number: ZA057051.
In these notices “we” means the University of Essex and our wholly owned subsidiaries University of Essex Campus Services (UECS) and WHH Ltd, and “you” can mean you as a member of staff, student, visitor or other individual depending on your relationship with the University.
We will comply with UK General Data Protection Regulations and Data Protection Act 2018 which we refer to as “data protection law”.
We will follow other jurisdiction’s data protection requirements where required.
Data Protection law says that the personal information we hold about you must be:
In addition to this, the ‘Accountability Principle’ requires that we take responsibility for how we comply with the principles and demonstrate that compliance.
We, and those that process personal data on our behalf, must have a lawful basis or ground for processing before we can process personal data.
In each of our separate privacy notices we have set out the specific lawful basis for processing your personal data.
The lawful bases for processing are set out in Article 6 of the UK GDPR.
At least one of these must apply whenever we process your personal data:
If we are processing special category data (sensitive data that require additional protection), we use additional legal bases.
These additional lawful bases for processing are set out in Article 9 of the UK GDPR.
At least one of these conditions must apply whenever we process your special category personal data:
If we are relying on conditions (b), (h), (i) or (j), we also need to meet the associated condition in UK law, set out in Part 1 of Schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act 2018.
We may also process criminal offence data and are required to meet the legal basis in Article 6 as well as a specific condition for processing in Schedule 1 of the DPA 2018.
We have an Appropriate Policy Document (.pdf) which sets out how we comply with the additional requirements on special category and criminal offence data.
Under data protection law, you have rights including:
You have the right to receive a copy of your personal information that we hold about you and information about how we use it, subject to certain exemptions.
You have the right to ask that your personal information be deleted in certain circumstances.
For example:
You have the right to suspend our use of your personal information in certain circumstances.
You have the right to obtain your personal information in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format and for it to be transferred to another organisation, where this is technically feasible.
The right only applies:
You have the right to object to the use of your personal information in certain circumstances and subject to certain exemptions.
You have the right to withdraw your consent at any time where we rely on consent to use your personal information.
You will generally not have to pay a fee to access your personal information (or to exercise any of the other rights).
If you make a request, we have one month to respond to you.
We may charge a reasonable fee if your request for access is clearly unfounded or excessive.
Alternatively, we may refuse to comply with the request in such circumstances.
We may need to request specific information from you to help us confirm your identity and ensure your right to access the information (or to exercise any of your other rights).
This is a security measure to ensure that personal information is not disclosed to any person who has no right to receive it.
Please see our policy on Data Rights for further information.
If you wish to exercise any of your rights, or have any questions about your rights, please contact the Data Protection Officer at dataprotectionofficer@essex.ac.uk .
We may have to share your data with third parties, including third-party service providers and suppliers.
We require third parties to respect the security of your data and to treat it in accordance with the law.
If we have to transfer any of your personal data outside the UK we ensure the receiving country or organisation is deemed to have adequate data protection provision.
Where a country or organisation does not have adequate protections we will put safeguards in place.
Details of these safeguards can be provided to you upon request.
Our privacy notices will set out more details about whom we will share data with.
We have put in place measures to protect the security of your information.
Where third parties have access to your data, we will provide instructions for them to process your personal information only on in accordance with our instructions, and where they have agreed to treat the information confidentially and to keep it secure.
We have put in place appropriate security measures to prevent your personal information from being accidentally lost, used or accessed in an unauthorised way, altered or disclosed.
In addition, we limit access to your personal information to those employees, agents, contractors and other third parties who have a relevant business need.
They will only process your personal information on our instructions, and they are subject to a duty of confidentiality.
We have put in place procedures to deal with any suspected data security breach and will notify you and any applicable regulator of a suspected breach where we are legally required to do so.
The University’s overarching approach to data protection is set out in our Data Protection Policy.
This Privacy Policy does not apply to other advertisers or websites.
Our website may contain links to other websites of interest which we might not own or operate.
You should note that we do not have any control over websites outside our ownership.
Therefore, we cannot be responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which you may provide whilst visiting such external websites accessed from links and these websites are not governed by this Privacy Policy.
You should exercise caution and review the privacy statement applicable to the website in question.
We have appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO) to oversee compliance with this Privacy Notice.
If you have any questions about this privacy notice or how we handle your personal information, please contact the DPO at dataprotectionofficer@essex.ac.uk
If we have to transfer any of your personal data outside the European Economic Area (EEA) we ensure the receiving country or organisation is deemed to have adequate data protection provision.
Where a country or organisation does not have adequate protections, we will put safeguards in place.
We may contact corporate contacts with unsolicited marketing.
Our legal basis for this is legitimate interests and we comply with the Privacy and Electronic Marketing Regulations (PECR) by only contacting corporate subscribers and always offering an opt out.
If you are dissatisfied with the way the University of Essex has processed your personal data, or if have any questions or concerns about your data please contact dataprotectionofficer@essex.ac.uk .
If we are not able to resolve the issue to your satisfaction, you have the right to complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
They can be contacted at https://ico.org.uk/make-a-complaint/
The ICO’s address: Information Commissioner’s Office Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 5AF Helpline: 0303 123 1113
This privacy notice was published on Monday, 31 January 2022.
We may change this privacy notice from time to time.
Last revised 20 December 2023.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/governance-and-strategy/transparency-return:
The information published on these pages shows the number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It also shows these numbers by reference to:
The data contained in the tables in this workbook have been rounded and suppressed as follows:
Numerators and denominators have been rounded to the nearest 10.
Where the numerator or denominator rounds to 20 or less, the data are suppressed with an "N".
Percentages are rounded according to the smallest, unsuppressed denominator in a given mode and characteristic.
If the denominator rounds to:
"N/A" is displayed where there is no provision in a given mode or level
"DP" indicates suppression for data protection reasons.
This is applied where the numerator is two or less, or differs from the denominator by no more than two students.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/modern-slavery-and-human-trafficking:
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
We are committed to protecting and respecting human rights and takes a robust approach to ensure that modern slavery or human trafficking is not happening as part of our operations or in the supply chain.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/clearing/what-is-clearing:
Clearing is the final stage of the university application cycle.
Unlike the main application period, where you apply with predicted grades, Clearing lets you apply with your actual exam results.
Clearing applications at Essex are now open .
If you're looking to start your undergraduate degree this autumn then Clearing is for you!
You may want to use Clearing if:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/clearing/how-to-apply:
You can make a Clearing application to us once you have received all of your qualifications.
We have two options to make an Clearing application with us, online via our webform or calling us on our telephone hotline.
Our online application form is open 24/7.
Our hotline is currently open:
Whichever way you apply, you'll submit personal information, such as contact details, alongside qualification details.
You'll also get the chance to tell us about any extracurricular activities or work experience you think we might want to know about.
If you have any certificates or transcripts of your qualifications, please make use of the document uploader on the online Clearing webform to send these to us with your Clearing application, especially if these are not standard UK qualifications.
Your application then gets sent to our Admissions team and you'll receive further information via email.
If you are applying to East 15 Acting School, o nce we’ve processed your application, we’ll invite you to attend an online audition (for acting and performance courses) or an online interview (for technical and production courses) – usually within 2 working days.
If you have any questions you can reach out to us at e15adms@essex.ac.uk
We will aim to give you a decision on your clearing application as soon as possible – normally within a few hours .
Sometimes we may need additional information to determine whether we can offer you a place on your original course choice or an alternative.
If that’s the case, we’ll take your details and get back to you as quickly as possible.
Once you've been offered a place, we'll email you all the next steps you need to follow.
If you have applied through UCAS you’ll need to log in to your UCAS Hub and add Essex as your Clearing choice.
This is how:
You can only add one Clearing choice at a time though, so don’t add us until we’ve emailed you confirming that we can make you a Clearing offer.
And if you’re not already in UCAS, no problem!
We’ll let you know in your confirmation email what to do next and how to accept your offer.
Book your place now to see where you could be calling home, and we'll make sure you have all the information you need to make the most out of your day.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/clearing/why-choose-essex:
If you're looking for a university that feels like home from the moment you step foot on campus, where you'll make friends for life, where you feel empowered to stand up for what you believe in, and that equips you for life after graduation, professionally and personally, welcome home...
With our three campuses, located in Colchester, Southend-on-Sea and Loughton, we've got the whole of Essex covered.
Learn more about the local area surrounding Colchester , Southend and Loughton .
Want to know more about the campus you could be calling home?
You're in the right place...

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/clearing/parents-guide:
As someone looking to offer your child or loved one support through the Clearing process, we want to help you understand exactly what Clearing is and how best you can help your child through it.
Put simply, Clearing is the process of universities filling their vacant spaces for this academic year, after the main cycle of applications has closed.
The unique nature of Clearing means that your child will be applying with their actual grades, rather than predicted, so once they receive their results they can apply.
Generally speaking, there are four main routes in to Clearing:
You are, of course, number one tea maker and hug-giver.
The truth is, the best thing you can do for your child over Clearing is just be there to support them through it and keep them calm.
It isn’t the ‘big deal’ many students think it is, but reassurance from you will make all the difference.
Getting online and researching the institutions your child is interested in can be helpful too - helping them compile a list of phone numbers, courses and questions is a big help.
"I had always thought the process of my daughter going through Clearing was going to be very stressful!
However, once we had got through on the phone the process became quite simple.
Maddie, my daughter, had several options of different universities she could go to for the course she wanted.
Once Maddie had decided on Essex, she had a phone call that day from an Essex lecturer which reassured her that she had made the best decision.
We had previously visited the University of Essex on an Open Day so we knew Maddie would be happy there.
Overall, our experience was very positive and a reminder that when your first plan doesn’t work out, there will be a reason for that and all will be good in the end." Melanie, mum of current Essex student, Maddie

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/visit-us/virtually:
Take a virtual journey to explore our facilities, picturesque campuses, and learn more about our vibrant student life, all from the comfort of your own home.
Watch our films that showcase the heart of our university, offering a glimpse into the bustling academic life, diverse range of subjects, and accommodation options.
From time-to-time we'll also showcase a range of live talks and webinars for you to join.
Sign up to our email newsletter to be the first to find out when our webinars are taking place.
Whether you're just starting to research universities or you've decided Essex is the place for you, we've got lots of different ways for you to find out more about Essex.
If you like what you see and would like to learn more about undergraduate study at Essex, why not visit us at one of our Open Days .
If you are an international Offer Holder and are unable to attend our in-person events, you can attend our webinars and learn more on topics including studying, support, and funding.
Find out more below and keep an eye on this page for updates.
29 August - Student Life Arrivals and Welcome Week
September – TBC
If you hold an offer for, or might apply to, the following departments, you can book onto a webinar to speak to academics that teach your course and ask them any questions you may have, from course content to life on campus.
Prospective applicants and current offer holders for Masters degree programmes are welcome to attend a live Q&A on the following date:
Find out more about accommodation across our Colchester and Southend campuses
See why life at Essex is special
Browse our course to find the perfect one for you

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/accounting:
Join a transformative journey into the world of finance and business, where practical skills, professional accreditation, and a global perspective converge to prepare you for a future in accounting.
At the University of Essex, studying accounting goes beyond the numbers.
Our accounting degrees focus on accountability, not just to financiers and investors but to a wider range of stakeholders, including our planet and people.
Accounting is a systematic process of recording, analysing, summarising, and interpreting financial transactions of a business or organisation to enable stakeholders to make informed financial decisions.
Key components of accounting include recording transactions, classifying and summarising them into financial statements, interpreting and communicating financial information, ensuring compliance with accounting standards, and conducting audits for accuracy and credibility.
Accounting plays a crucial role in business operations, providing the foundation for financial management and decision-making.
It helps businesses track their financial performance, manage resources efficiently, and meet regulatory requirements.
An accounting degree opens doors to a rich and exciting career - many of our graduates have gone on to be auditors, tax consultants and business analysts.
Your degree will equip you with the knowledge and skills for you to stand out amongst the crowd.
Find out more about the skills you will gain and the opportunities an Accounting degree with us can provide.
Our Colchester Campus is home to the UK's first zero carbon business school, Essex Business School , where our commitment to sustainability and ethics is integrated into our teaching.
We'll empower you to tackle global challenges strategically such as climate change, pandemics, and global inequality.
You'll accounting skills will empower you to provide sound, ethical and sustainable decision making so that you can make a positive impact in the workplace.
Study alongside and collaborate with renowned researchers such as Professor Ilenaa Steccolini, who highlighted accounting's role in swift accounting decision making during the COVID-19 pandemic or Dr.
Rebecca Warren , who works alongside local communities organisations to help make real-world social change and improvements to local communities.
Our undergraduate bachelor degrees also allow you to pair accounting with subjects like finance, economics, and management, offering a solid understanding of financial drivers in business leadership.
Essex Business School is:
Full-time
Year Abroad
A degree in accounting will prime you for a career in the financial services sector but you could also find your niche working for small-medium sized enterprises too.
Graduate roles in accountancy are abundant as businesses of all sizes need to be accountable for their finances.
Our teaching and research in accounting are grounded in how accounting is practised around the globe.
We offer Masters courses for students who want to continue their studies in accounting or business, as well as programmes for students who are new to the subject and want to fast-track to a career in the accounting profession.
Accounting at Essex goes well beyond the preparation of financial statements.
We teach you to be accountable, act ethically and make financial decisions that positively impact both organisations and society.
We aim to inspire a business-minded and socially driven Essex accounting graduate.
Part-time
Accounting informs almost all areas of business, from strategy to outsourcing, and operational planning to environmental policies.
To us accounting means more than cutting costs and managing transactions.
It’s vital for ensuring accountability by encouraging sound, ethical decision making.
We’re home to world-class researchers and academics and we are ranked in the top 200 globally for accounting and finance in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024.
The University of Essex is also ranked in the top 175 for Business and Economics in THE World University Rankings by Subject 2025.
We belong to the Social Sciences Faculty within the University, meaning we have strong connections with other departments and can supervise innovative interdisciplinary projects.
We support our PhD students to design and conduct the research project they choose, rather than telling them to complete it in a particular way.
We’re pleased to be able to offer a number of integrated PhDs, for students who have a strong research proposal but who do not have previous research or Masters-level study experience.
Explore our accounting research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.
More information can be found about research degrees on our school pages.
Our courses below will help guide you through the various research degree programmes we offer.
Sign up to emails and discover what it's like to live and study at Essex.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you.
We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website.
However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, or in response to COVID-19, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/acting-producing-stage-management:
At East 15 Acting School, we have over 60 years of experience in discovering and developing daring, imaginative, and tenacious actors, performers, and theatre-makers.
Study at East 15 Acting School - a leading drama school and member of the Federation of Drama Schools training actors, performers, and theatre makers.
We place equal importance on developing your craft and creativity, as well as preparing you for a sustainable and varied career in the creative industries.
Our students ranked us as the top drama school or conservatoire for teaching satisfaction in the National Student Survey 2024, and we are the highest ranked drama school in London and the South East and 4th overall for Drama or Dance in the Guardian University Guide 2024 (as part of University of Essex).
True to our founding principles, our aim is to provide you with the skills and confidence to continually develop your throughout your career, finding a balance between personal discovery, intuition and technical skills.
With one of the widest ranges of courses available for vocational training at undergraduate and postgraduate level, East 15 allows you the opportunity to specialise your skills in your areas of interest, whilst establishing the knowledge, abilities, tenacity and networks that are crucial to finding opportunities that are both creatively rich and professionally rewarding.
East15 (Loughton) Campus
Southend Campus
As a graduate of East 15 Acting School and the University of Essex you're in great company.
Our alumni are creating daring, pioneering, fresh, and world-famous work across stage and screen.
See the full range of our notable alumni.
Open up a world of possibilities by embarking on a master's degree.
Whether you already hold a degree in acting or a related field and are looking to refine your craft, acquire new skills, or hold a degree in an unrelated field and wish to change career paths, this program serves as a transformative journey for those aspiring to become professional actors.
It provides intensive training in acting techniques, voice modulation, and character development, fostering a comprehensive skill set necessary for success in the performing arts.
For established actors, the program becomes a platform to broaden their range, invigorate their creativity, and cultivate new skills.
It not only acts as a catalyst for self-discovery but also helps expand your professional network, connecting individuals with industry experts and potential collaborators.
A master's degree is designed to accommodate individuals from diverse backgrounds, acknowledging that some may have already forged paths in alternative professions.
This adaptability makes the program an attractive option for those aspiring to change paths towards professional acting.
Whether for skill enhancement, creative rejuvenation, professional networking, or academic recognition, the Master's in Acting proves to be a dynamic and transformative choice for individuals at various stages of their personal and professional journeys
At East 15, we celebrate and interrogate contemporary theatre practice and its cultural, political and social relevance.
Our research takes many forms including practice-as-research and text-based enquiry, and champions a spirit of radical curiosity and experimentation.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/actuarial-science:
Actuarial science applies mathematical and statistical
 skills to problems arising in applied subjects such as insurance, finance,
 commerce and government.
Actuaries are in demand around the world due to their
 specialist skills.
Actuarial science teaches you the art of turning risks into opportunities.
It uses principles from mathematics, statistics and probability to evaluate risks in a broad range of areas such as insurance, finance, commerce and government.
Actuaries provide assessments of financial security systems, with a focus on their complexity, their mathematics, and their mechanisms.
If you're interested in using mathematical concepts in practical scenarios, such as determining insurance premiums, managing risks, or analysing financial data, actuarial science might be perfect for you.
You'll study a range of different topics such as:
You’ll also have access to our dedicated computing facilities that provide real-world experience.
Professional actuaries in the insurance industry, including influential businesses AXA and Buck Consultants, contribute to our employability module as well as host our students at their offices to show them typical challenges that actuaries face.
It has been predicted by the US Department of Labor that the employment of actuaries is expected to grow faster than any other occupation, making it a great prospect for a graduate job.
The profession enjoys strong job security and competitive salaries.
Aside from a rewarding career as an actuary, clear thinkers are required in every profession, so the successful mathematician, data scientist or actuary has an extensive choice of potential careers.
Studying actuarial science at Essex will present you with a clear career path compared with a mathematics graduate.
Actuaries work primarily in insurance, pensions, risk assessment, and finance.
Find out more about employability in Mathematical, Sciences, Actuarial Science and Statistics.
Our MSc Actuarial Science course is based on the syllabus of the majority of the core subjects of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, so you’ll cover subjects as part of your course CB1 (Business Finance) depending on the optional module selected, CM2 (Financial Engineering and Loss Reserving) and CS2 (Risk Modelling and Survival Analysis).
This focus on up-to-date research findings in actuarial methodologies and actuarial applications means that you gain a solid training in actuarial modelling and actuarial analysis.
It is also possible to specialise on a topic of your choice, such as:
The advent of the digital era has revolutionised the study of actuarial science, expanding its frontiers and posing new challenges.
At research level, you will embark on a journey of independent study into this thriving subject at Essex.
Our School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science is innovative and student-focused.
We have staff members available to act as supervisors across a number of areas such as: survival analysis, forensic economics, risk management, Islamic finance and takaful, asset-liability management for pension funds, predictability of financial time series, and performance evaluation of funds.
Our research groups are working on a broad range of collaborative areas tackling real-world issues in areas such as healthcare, education, insurance, and electronics.
Explore our Mathematical Science, Actuarial Science and Statistics research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/american-us-studies:
America: land of the free, home of the brave?
At Essex,
 American Studies (US) unravels the intricacies of American history and culture
 but also equips you with the knowledge to comprehend America's profound impact
 on the global stage.
At Essex, you'll discover the history, politics and sociology of one the most influential countries in contemporary history.
Your degree will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of how America has shaped the world as we know it today.
American Studies is for you if you frequently find yourself lost in Hollywood movies and American Literature.
You would love to spend part of your studies immersing yourself in US culture.
You’re intellectually curious and want to gain a broader understanding of the country that has secured its place as a global leader.
Visit our department page to learn more about our faculty, research opportunities, and the home of American Studies at Essex.
American Studies offers you the chance to gain a wide-ranging knowledge of many aspects of American life and intimate acquaintance with the region in the United States where you will have spent a period of study.
This provides excellent preparation for careers in media, education, politics, the Civil Service, international organisations such as the UN and NATO or non-governmental organisations, and many other fields .
Our graduates have gone on to work in a wide range of desirable roles including an events co-ordinator for Age UK, a business provision manager for BT, an accountant in London, and an account executive for Bluesky PR.
We also work with the university's Student Development Team to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Explore the career opportunities American Studies can provide.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/art-history:
Examine the evolution of artistic movements, styles, and techniques that reveal the history of civilizations and the dynamic interplay between artistic innovation and societal contexts.
At Essex, you'll learn from leading academics like the award-winning Dr.
Matt Lodder, whose podcast "Beneath the Skin" won the history award at the Independent Podcast Awards .
Our art history courses will help you sharpen your analytical skills by critically engaging with the relationship between art and society over two millennia.
Exploring pivotal moments from:
The Art Exchange gallery and ESCALA , the most comprehensive Latin American art resource in the UK, both reside on our Colchester Campus providing you with a unique opportunity for academic exploration.
You'll also benefit from work and research experiences, ongoing art programs, and join a community dedicated to academic excellence.
Studying a Master's degree in Curating, Heritage and Museum Studies, or Art History and Theory offers you the chance to gain specialised knowledge and skills for your future career.
Key benefits include expertise in curatorial practices, critical thinking, analytical skills and learning more about specific challenges and solutions found in these areas.
You'll also have the opportunity to delve deeper and learn about areas such as:
Graduates can pursue diverse roles in museums, galleries, and cultural institutions, contributing to the art community and shaping cultural discourse.
With some of our recent graduates having gone on to work for the National Portrait Gallery, Victoria and Albert Museum, Sotheby's New York, and Momart Ltd
Embark upon your next step as a researcher and combines the study of art curation with a deep exploration of the historical and theoretical aspects of art.
Our interdisciplinary approach allows you to engage with art in a multifaceted manner, understanding not only its visual elements but also the historical contexts and theoretical frameworks that shape artistic production, reception, and interpretation.
We offer four different options for research study:
Explore our Art History, and Curating research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/biochemistry:
Biochemistry is a fascinating field that explores the chemical processes in living organisms, covering everything from genetics and microbiology to forensics and medicine.
In the last century, incredible progress has transformed this area of study, making it an exciting time to get involved.
Biochemistry delves into fundamental chemical processes, covering genetics, microbiology, forensics, and medicine.
Studying biochemistry at Essex means gaining a profound understanding of life's molecular intricacies, guided by our international team of experts .
Specialising in biomolecular structure-function relationships, we unravel the complex cellular pathways controlling vision and cell death.
We also use computational approaches and bioinformatics to complement our research.
In your final year, dive into cutting-edge research projects in our state-of-the-art labs .
At Essex, we shape you into a scientific thinker, fostering a mindset and approach that mirrors the world of scientists.
Graduating opens doors to diverse careers in industries like the NHS, pharmaceuticals, forensic science, health and safety, and teaching.
Our alumni excel in laboratory roles within pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, hospitals, clinics, and healthcare companies.
Some venture into sales, publishing, or management, while others pursue MSc or PhD degrees to enhance career opportunities.
Biochemistry and biomedical science courses are excellent foundations for postgraduate medicine programs, with many graduates securing spots in medical schools across the UK.
Find out more about career prospects with our School of Life Sciences.
Explore the dynamic field of biochemistry at Essex, where our friendly and supportive atmosphere creates an enriching learning environment.
Our commitment to a cutting-edge curriculum ensures you stay at the forefront of the field, benefiting from the latest advancements and applications in biochemistry.
Led by professionals with real-world experience , our expert-led education prepares you for the challenges of the professional world.
Take advantage of distinctive research opportunities within our courses, where you can engage in a 16-week project in academic, industrial, or clinical settings.
This hands-on experience enhances your practical skills, setting you apart in the competitive job market.
Our carefully crafted courses equip you with industry-relevant skills, making you well-prepared for success upon graduation.
From genes to ecosystems, our research spans the entire biological spectrum, employing state-of-the-art techniques covering all the biological sciences including biochemistry, biomedical science, environmental biology, marine biology, ecology, statistics, and computational approaches for biologists.
As one of the largest schools at our university , we prioritise creating a vibrant, friendly, and supportive environment.
Alongside this commitment, our dedicated study room ensures that all students have access to office space and essential resources, fostering focused academic work outside of research laboratories.
Complementing this, our unique professional development scheme for doctoral students sets us apart, offering unique opportunities for growth and success.
Explore our biochemistry research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/biological-sciences:
Biology is the scientific exploration of the vast and diverse world of living organisms.
Biological sciences has expanded enormously within recent years, revealing a wealth of knowledge about ourselves and the millions of organisms on our planet.
At Essex, you will learn modern lab techniques, participate in research field trips, develop employability skills and explore the most recent developments in the field.
Some of our most recent research has focused on areas of biology such as the impact on invertebrates due to melting glaciers, using microbes to ward off barnacles from hulls of ships, tracking the eating habits of cows and goats, and assessing the science behind the perfect garden.
You will study integrative biology, which covers a wide breadth of biology from molecules and cells, to whole organisms and ecosystems, giving you a solid foundation across all of biological sciences.
Our courses equip you with the analytical and computational skills that are in high demand by employers.
The Life Sciences 2030 Skills Strategy predicts that the life sciences sector could expand by over 130,000 jobs between 2020 and 2030.
You will also become skilled at report writing, data analysis and delivering presentations.
A biological sciences degree can lead to an exciting range of careers.
Essex graduates have gone on to work in a range of different careers in private, public and third-sector organisations including GlaxoSmithKline, the Sainsbury Laboratory (University of Cambridge), ALS Laboratories, the National Health Service, Suffolk County Council, Essex Wildlife Trust and Natural England.
There has never been a better time to study biology.
Find out more about careers and employability in Biological Sciences
Our multi-disciplinary environment enables us to offer a wide range of modular and interdisciplinary taught postgraduate courses which provide targeted training in specialist areas of biological sciences such as biotechnology, cancer biology, health genomics, tropical marine biology and molecular medicine.
In addition, we collaborate with a number of academic departments from across the University, including social sciences and humanities, on areas such as marine science and sustainable development.
Studying a Masters degree in biological sciences can help you build up your skillset and develop expertise in a specific area of biological interest.
It shows your commitment to your professional development, and builds upon the experience gained in your undergraduate degree.
As one of our Masters students, you will gain hands-on experience in our dedicated life sciences labs.
You will use the same types of facilities that you will find in private and public sector organisations, making you familiar with tools and techniques that you will use in an advanced career.
Our School of Life Sciences will provide you with a stimulating environment for research training.
The research being conducted by members of staff and research students in our School of Life Sciences covers the whole spectrum of biology from genes, proteins, and cells through to whole organisms, communities, and entire ecosystems.
We employ a range of state-of-the-art techniques covering all the biological sciences including biochemistry, biomedical science, environmental microbiology, marine biology, ecology, statistics, and computational approaches for biologists.
Our research and teaching are guided by a mission to build a healthier, fairer and more sustainable world from responsible management of natural resources through deep understanding of biological systems to health technologies and cancer treatments.
Explore our research programmes in environmental biology and environmental sciences and  by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/biomedical-science:
Biomedical science applies the concepts of biochemistry and cell biology to the study of health and disease in the human body.
This is a rapidly expanding science that has become significant in public opinion since the COVID-19 pandemic.
There has never been a more exciting time to study biomedical science.
Biomedical science is a broad area of life sciences which underpins much of what is regarded as modern medicine.
Many biomedical scientists work in healthcare laboratories to research the causes and diagnosis of diseases as well as the effectiveness of the medicines that cure them.
Urine, blood, and tissues samples are all analysed by biomedical scientists, so the vast majority of people in the UK will at some point benefit from a biomedical scientist in their life.
At Essex, you will learn about the onset, progression, diagnosis and treatment of diseases, and are taught by research-active experts and practicing biomedical scientists from NHS hospitals.
Our primary research focuses on genetic diseases, infection and immunity, and age-associated conditions such as cancer.
You’ll be equipped with skills that allow you to follow a professional career in industry or to continue for further academic qualifications, such as a Masters or PhD.
Some students who study biomedical science also use it as a launchpad to study Medicine or Dentistry.
Graduates with life sciences degrees are in high demand across the world, which has significantly increased in recent years because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Once you have graduated from Essex with a biomedical science degree, you’ll be able to move into a wide variety of related careers, including working in the NHS, pharmaceuticals, research, health and safety, and teaching.
Many of our students have gone onto work for major pharmaceutical companies such as Astra Zeneca and Pfizer.
Others have secured highly respectable jobs as biomedical scientists in an NHS laboratory at Grade 5.
Their work may range from focusing on water quality, environmental research, or rare pathogens.
After several years in the lab and completion of a Masters degree, our graduates often move up to senior levels, with greater responsibility.
Find out more about career prospects within the School of Life Sciences
Our teaching and research is constantly evolving to reflect the latest findings and their applications in biomedical sciences and biotechnology, from cancer to synthetic biology.
Our lecturers are active researchers as well as world-leading experts, so the latest research is embedded in our teaching.
You will also learn in a friendly and supportive atmosphere in our School of Life Sciences alongside students studying cancer biology, biotechnology, molecular medicine, health genomics, and more.
We have scholarships and bursaries available for talented postgraduates, ranging from research council studentships and University of Essex scholarships, to awards funded by charities and other external organisations.
Our School of Life Sciences will provide you with a stimulating environment for your research training.
The research our students and staff are conducting covers the whole spectrum of biology from genes, proteins, and cells through to whole organisms, communities, and entire ecosystems.
We employ a range of state-of-the-art techniques covering all the biological sciences, including biochemistry, biomedical science, environmental microbiology, marine biology, ecology, statistics, and computational approaches for biologists.
Explore our Biomedical Science research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/business-and-management:
Use your analytics skills, and innovation to solve business challenges for the good of organisations and society.
Explore how businesses are created and grow.
Understand organisational behaviour, management structures, supply chains, accounting and finance and how to manage innovation and new technologies within a business.
You’ll explore the current issues affecting our global economy, including the international business environment; and gain a rich understanding of how organisations function and thrive.
With a real-world focus, and experience research-led education from our experts, you’ll benefit from the latest thinking in an ever-changing industry enabling you to graduate with the knowledge and skills needed for the future you desire.
Whether you're aiming to launch your own business or to climb the career ladder – the opportunities for an Essex business and management graduate are endless.
Unlock your potential with a business and management degree providing you with opportunities to acquire a comprehensive skill set encompassing strategic thinking, leadership prowess, problem-solving finesse, and excellent communication skills, all vital assets for navigating the corporate world.
In today's globalised market, understanding the intricacies of business operations, be it finance, marketing, or human resources; is key to versatility and a career opportunities.
Find out more about the skills you'll learn and the career path your degree could take you to on our Essex Business School web pages.
Managing in today's global economy requires creativity, holistic thinking and a clear strategy.
At Essex, you explore more than just how organisations work and the best ways to manage them.
Our Masters programmes promote critical reflection on the roles organisations have within different countries and cultures, as well as the impact they can have upon individuals.
You’ll be working alongside our world-renowned academics and practitioners, who are producing work with a global impact.
We’ll nurture your ambition, encourage you to challenge the boundaries of knowledge and empower you to address the current issues organisations face independently.
You’ll graduate with a degree that equips you with the understanding and skill to become a leader who can help both business and society to innovate and thrive.
Today’s managers face dwindling consumer confidence, difficulties retaining talent and demand for greater social and environmental responsibility.
Could your research help them to navigate these challenges?
At Essex, you can join the next generation of social science researchers shaping theory, policy and practice in the fields of management studies and business analytics.
By studying for your PhD with us, you benefit from working in an academically rigorous and professionally supportive environment at a business school where 100% of our business and management research environment is world-leading or internationally excellent (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
You can choose to undertake research in a number of areas, including human resource management, international management, marketing and brand management and work and organisation studies.
Throughout, our supervisors will support the development of your research expertise and professional skills.
With more than 100 doctoral students, totalling around 40 nationalities, Essex Business School is the place to launch your international research career.
Explore our Business and Management research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/childhood-studies:
Are you considering a career working with children and young people?
This degree can provide you with a unique opportunity to study the social and emotional worlds of children.
Childhood studies is an innovative subject area that aims to understand and explain the experiences of children and childhood.
The subject utilises several disciplines to interpret the experience of childhood, both historically and within contemporary society.
This multidisciplinary approach includes:
History
Developmental psychology
Sociology
Anthropology
Psychoanalytic approaches
Childhood studies examines how childhood is a socially constructed concept, differing between cultures and generations.
This subject area examines how changes in our shifting understanding of childhood can influence and shape the lives of children.
Childhood studies is concerned with understanding childhood as a social construct and lived experience, whereas child psychology is concerned with understanding the mechanics of child thought processes.
Childhood studies degrees examine the shifting social and historical experience of childhood using a multidisciplinary approach.
Students will draw upon sociology, history, anthropology, psychoanalytic approaches and developmental psychology.
The discipline aims to understand childhood as an ever-changing and socially constructed experience.
Child psychology degrees are concerned with the study of the psychological processes of children and seek to understand the mechanics of childhood thought and development.
The discipline introduces students to an empirical and scientific approach.
Students will  compare and contrast children's cognitive processes in response to stimuli, other children, and adults.
Both are concerned with the social and historical experience of childhood.
Early childhood studies degrees focus heavily upon the first eight years of a child's life.
In comparison, a childhood studies degree will consider childhood within a broader social context, examining the distinctive challenges posed to children as they navigate society until the age of twenty-one.
The recent emergence of the discipline in the early 1990s could be viewed as a response to an increased need to understand the changing lives of children.
As more young children enter childcare and early education, transitioning from care within their immediate families to group care settings has become a more pressing issue.
Such developments make it even more vital to develop a multidisciplinary approach that can explain the changing institutional arrangements of care that children experience.
As children spend increasing amounts of time in group care settings, our reliance upon trained professionals with a profound understanding of childhood is growing.
Advances in technology, changes in social norms and global events are impacting upon the lives of children and increasing our need for a highly educated workforce with a deeper understanding of children and childhood.
Whether you are considering a career in childcare, research, advocacy, teaching, or policy making, a childhood studies degree can help provide you with the relevant knowledge to make a difference to the lives of children today.
A childhood studies degree could help you consider the contemporary challenges faced by children within society, including:
Graduates are uniquely positioned to identify, address and overcome the challenges faced by children in society.
You will be stepping into the workforce at a time when children’s mental health, wellbeing, and resilience is at the forefront of social, political, educational, and care debates.
The interdisciplinary nature of this degree provides graduates with the skills to work effectively and respectfully with a variety of organisations, colleagues, and stakeholders, making a difference to the lives of children today.
A childhood studies degree can lead to a range of exciting career paths.
From childcare to academia, this degree could lead to many careers including:
Upon successful completion of a degree, you will have developed transferable skills and a broad knowledge base in preparation for a range of careers.
As a graduate you will be able to pursue vocational training, further study or immediate employment in an area which best aligns with your interest.
Here are a selection of specific jobs and average starting salaries a degree in childhood studies could lead to:
The job titles and starting salaries listed are averages for graduates within the United Kingdom in 2023.
Regional differences, changes in industry, and individual circumstance may impact the starting salaries listed above.
A childhood studies degree will provide you with a range of skills desired by potential employers.
These include:
A degree in childhood studies can also help you to develop a numerous personal skills including:
Visit the Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies, home to childhood studies at the University of Essex.
Meet the experts and discover more about choosing this fascinating undergraduate degree.
You want to further your understanding of the multi-faceted nature of children in today's society.
You strive to make a difference to children's experiences in each phase of their childhood.
At Essex we will develop your skills working with infants, children and adolescents, whether in education, health care or children's services.
Combining psychoanalysis with disciplines such as sociology and psychology ensures your knowledge and understanding is thorough and expansive to nurture your career prospects in working with children.
Find a scholarship, discover postgraduate funding opportunities and learn more about the fee structure for postgraduate students at Essex.
As a research student at Essex, you work at the heart of our internationally acknowledged and well-connected research community.
Within Childhood Studies at Essex, we offer supervision into many key areas including: Psychosocial studies of children and childhood; children, parenting, and families; childhood and identity; children, media, and popular culture; child development; trauma; children in/and refugee studies; gender and sexuality; sociologies of childhood and therapeutic communities.
Search our staff profiles and discover the researchers open to academic supervision at the University of Essex.
Find a scholarship, discover funding opportunities and learn more about the fee structure for research students at Essex.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/computational-finance:
Computational finance is the perfect blend of computation,
 economics and finance.
To succeed in the modern finance industry, you need a mixture of competencies rooted in finance, economics and computer science.
The explosion of data and computer power over recent years and decades has made classical quantitative finance techniques obsolete.
At Essex, we give you rigorous training in these disciplines by covering principles of quantitative finance and microeconomics alongside current computational skills.
We focus on established and emergent technologies to deal with big data, such as machine learning, and decentralised exchanges, including blockchain.
If you've got a quantitative background, our Masters courses give you advanced training in computational finance, algorithmic trading or financial technology.
You'll receive practical hands-on instruction with a focus on problem-solving skills that will prepare you for a future career in the finance sector.
You will be part of our Centre for Computational Finance and Economic Agents , which is an innovative and lab-based teaching and research centre, with an international reputation for leading-edge, interdisciplinary work combining economic and financial modelling with computational implementation.
Our Centre for Computational Finance and Economic Agents, which is an innovative and lab-based teaching and research centre, offers research supervision in topics such as: algorithmic game theory; theoretical computer science; AI for finance; blockchain; high-frequency finance; and financial mathematics.
We provide you with a vibrant and multidisciplinary research environment and many of our PhD students publish papers in prestigious international conferences which often attracts the attention of industry and government around the world.
Our graduates have gone on to become quantitative analysts, portfolio managers and software engineers at institutions such as HSBC and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities.
Explore our Computer Science research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/computer-science:
Learn the intricate science behind information systems and acquire the skills to address some of the world's most significant technological challenges, opening the door to a realm of innovation and possibilities.
Blending theories with hands-on programming skills, our Computer Science degrees will help mould you into a tech-savvy problem solver.
With courses in algorithms, artificial intelligence, assistive technologies, big data and data analytics, computer games, databases, robotics software and web development, and more.
You'll learn the expertise necessary to thrive in the fast-paced, ever-evolving landscape of technology and equip yourself to contribute to groundbreaking developments, leaving an indelible mark in the expansive world of computing.
Our School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering provides a cutting-edge learning experience, giving students and our alumni the skills for success in the dynamic tech landscape.
Some of our Alumni now work for some of the world's biggest companies, others created their own companies and solved solutions to technological problems.
Explore the career opportunities our School can provide you and learn more about our Alumni.
Our degrees are about more than research.
You will gain experience in project management and communication, as well as support to develop your numerical and data analysis skills.
All of this will help you in your future career, whether you're looking to join academia or intend to move into the private sector.
You'll also have access to a range of different facilities and specialist laboratories, that ensure you have the tools needed to carry out ground-breaking research.
At Essex we offer several research degree types, from a one year Master of Science by Dissertation (MSD) through to a full PhD.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/creative-writing:
Take a journey into the world of words, and learn about the theory and practice of becoming a writer.
We'll nurture and develop your writing and storytelling talents in a structured learning environment.
You'll explore the transformation of words and ideas through translation, work on an independent creative project, delve into myths, and study surrealism and defamiliarisation.
The curriculum also covers the application of creative writing and publishing in social media, radio, and playwriting.
At Essex you'll benefit from studying alongside the Centre for Creative Writing , our dedicated research centre established in 2010 that seeks to understand the innovative practices in Creative Writing.
You'll also join a community of like-minded individuals who share your passion for writing, such as the award-winning Professor Elizabeth Kuti - who has explored the themes of folklore, and written two plays; 'Sea Longing' which explored stories of the selkie , and was broadcast on BBC Radio 3 and Fishskin Trousers - a monologue play which interweaves myth, folklore and magic as it unfolds the experiences of three characters on the mysterious Island of Orford Ness.
Apart from our extensive library, you'll use facilities like our Media Centre with advanced studios and editing suite, as well as the Lakeside Theatre , a 200-seat venue on the University Colchester Campus.
The Research Laboratory provides unique opportunities for experimentation and improvisation with innovative projects.
Whether you seek personal growth, a publishing career, or want to unleash your creative potential, our creative writing degree offers an ideal platform for your literary aspirations.
Our School of Literature, Film and Theatre Studies ensures our graduates are prepared for their career in the media, education, publishing or film and theatre industries amongst many other career options.
Some of our graudates have gone on to successfully publish their work such as Ida Løkås, who won a literary prize in Norway for The Beauty That Flows Past securing a book deal and Alexia Casale, whose novel Bone Dragon was published by Faber & Faber and subsequently featured on both the Young Adult Books of the Year 2013 list for The Financial Times , and The Independent’s Books of the year 2013: Children
Studying creative writing at the master's level offers aspiring writers and scholars the unique opportunity to refine their craft through skills development and exposure to diverse perspectives.
Beyond honing writing techniques and styles, you'll benefit from constructive feedback, mentorship, and networking opportunities with established authors and industry professionals.
Essex has nurtured a long tradition of distinguished authors whose work has shaped literature as we know it today, from past giants such as the American poets Robert Lowell and Ted Berrigan, to contemporary writers such as mythographer and novelist Dame Marina Warner, and Booker Prize winner Ben Okri.
Joining Essex ensures you join the long line of success stories we are truly proud of.
As a postgraduate student you have the opportunity to submit your unpublished creative writing to our Creel anthology where members of the Centre for Creative Writing (or dedicated research centre) select and produce this anthology for publication.
Whether your project involves poetry, fiction, theatre, screenwriting, or another form such as psychogeography, you will benefit from expert supervision by experienced writing practitioners in our Department of Literature, Film and Theatre Studies .
Our interdisciplinary natures means you can gain expertise from film-makers, American Literature experts, professional theatre practitioners and more.
Our active and interdisciplinary research community that will challenge you intellectually and artistically.
To find out more about us read our biographies and then use our research finder to find a supervisor.
Explore our Creative writing research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/criminology:
You’re prepared to challenge the accepted concepts of justice, punishment and social control and have a meaningful impact on society.
At Essex we encourage you to question the prescribed and critique the accepted norms.
Harnessing a criminological imagination will give you fresh eyes to view some of the today’s most pressing issues.
If you're impatient to understand the nature of crime, welcome home!
But be warned, you will see the world in a completely different way.
Discover the home of criminology at Essex and visit the Department of Sociology and Criminology.
Discover what it's like to study at undergraduate level in this renowned Department.
Although there are many different approaches to the subject, at Essex we take a sociological view.
You critique ideas and concepts of justice, punishment and social control.
Our courses are contemporary and informed by global theory.
You study with other committed, engaged and motivated students, and have the opportunity to attend guest-speaker seminars, events and conferences.
Want to understand crime?
Welcome home!
We attract research funding, produce world class research outputs and engage with local schools, colleges and businesses.
With our integrated, four-year PhD, you follow our Sociological Research pathway in your first year.
This provides Masters-level research training, before undertaking your PhD research.
This course is also available for study on a full or part time basis.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/data-analytics:
Discover the power of data – where investigations drive crucial decisions and predictions unveil new trends.
Embark on a journey into the world of data science and analytics at Essex, unlock insights and shape the future.
Data analytics is your guide to uncovering patterns and insights from information like social media trends or sales records, helping you answer specific questions about what's happening right now.
Take it a step further with data science, where we use advanced computer techniques to predict future trends and empower you to make informed decisions.
Dive into the possibilities of understanding not just the present but shaping a smarter future with our data-driven insights.
At Essex, our approach to data analytics strikes a balance between solid theoretical foundations and practical hands-on application.
We cover a spectrum of topics including computer science, programming, databases, mathematical skills, and ethical considerations related to data usage.
A degree from our School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science can set you up with the skills and experience to open doors to a wide range of careers.
While you’re with us, you’ll get employability support through our Careers modules.
We offer extra events and programmes by our Careers teams and Student Development Department.
Find out more about the type of career and employability options and support we provide.
The pace at which individuals, businesses, organisations, and governments generate data is unprecedented and continually accelerating.
Making sense of this vast data landscape, extracting meaningful insights, and facilitating informed decisions requires more than just adopting new methods and techniques—it involves asking smarter questions.
At Essex, we look beyond the hype, focusing on the genuine challenges, opportunities, commercialisation, and social use of data.
We bring together academic experts in analytics and data science from across our university.
Our collaborative approach results in cutting-edge research, specialised courses, and invaluable business insights.
Our Masters courses provide a unique opportunity for you to gain advanced knowledge and skills in analytics and data science.
For students without a robust background in mathematics and computer science, we also offer conversion courses designed to bolster your proficiency in data science methodologies.
Join us in navigating the evolving landscape of data with confidence and expertise.,
In today's evolving economies, there is a growing need for researchers with analytical expertise in both academic and practical domains.
Possessing a profound understanding of data science methodologies can unlock substantial opportunities for business leaders, managers, policymakers, and entrepreneurs alike.
Engaging in research within the field of data science provides a unique avenue to explore cutting-edge questions using advanced methods and technologies, directly influencing society.
At Essex, your research journey will be guided by internationally recognised experts in data science.
We specialise in a range of topics, including machine learning, big data, statistical analysis, biostatistics, non-parametric statistics, dimensionality reduction, clustering methods, deep learning, and more.
Explore our Data Analytics research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/drama:
Explore your potential as a theatre maker, and expand your critical understanding of drama’s importance to humanity.
From global theatre practices, to gender, eco-theatre and tragedy, you’ll study core dramatic texts and theories, as well as cutting-edge contemporary performance.
Diversity is in our DNA at Essex, and the drama you study will reflect a rich multiplicity of voices.
You’ll make your own work in our beautiful Lakeside Theatre and Studio; and our modules will inspire you to write scripts for stage and screen, to direct actors for film and stage, and to develop your technical skills in design, lighting and stage management.
Our degrees equip students to work in all areas of theatre, media and the arts and in many other careers as well, including education, business, broadcasting, and more.
Drama means ‘doing’ and our degree asks a lot of our students: commitment, intellectual rigour, teamwork, curiosity, and creativity.
We’re eager to meet you and help you follow your passion in drama.
Embarking on a Drama degree at the University of Essex lays the foundation for a versatile and impactful career in the performing arts and beyond.
Our program equips students with a spectrum of transferable skills, enhancing their employability across diverse fields.
Our graduates have forged successful paths in various industries, demonstrating transferable skills such as collaboration, communication, and creative problem-solving.
Our drama students have gone on to find success in a range of related creative industries including journalism, television production, broadcasting, radio presenting, gaming, magazine editing, copywriting, press relations and marketing, as well as in business, commerce and law.
Our graduates have gone on to work in a wide range of creative roles including:
Our courses will refine your approach to theatre-making.
Through research and practice you'll explore and critique traditional and contemporary dramatists and practitioners from across the globe.
Your studies will develop your understanding of the purpose and impact of performance.
You have the options to tailor your skills in Acting, Applied theatre, Directing, Playwriting/dramaturgy, Scriptwriting
MA Theatre Practice and MA Scriptwriting are based in our Department of Literature, Film and Theatre Studies.
MA Theatre Practise is an interdisciplinary program offering advanced knowledge in theatre-making, international performance traditions, practice-as-research (PaR), and professional writing, directing, and devising methods.
You can explore diverse artistic approaches, engage with critical discourses, and deepen your understanding of the interplay between 'practice' and 'research.'
MA Scriptwriting allows you to hone your scriptwriting skills with professional dramatists on our MA Scriptwriting (Theatre and Digital Media).
You will have the opportunity to develop a diverse portfolio, culminating in a full-length original script for stage, screen, radio, or television.
At Essex, we give students the opportunity to explore practice and theory, combining critical study with practical workshops to deepen your understanding of the scriptwriter's craft.
We have a focus on contemporary British and Irish drama, exploring topics such as dramatic structure, poetic theatre, screenplay writing, and options for poetic practice or novel-writing.
Your dissertation offers one-to-one supervision for crafting a full-length script.
MA Acting is based at East 15 Acting School.
At Essex, we value the individuality of your academic pursuits.
As a PhD student with us, you have the chance to delve into cutting-edge topics, push the boundaries of performance studies, and contribute to the vibrant tapestry of theatrical knowledge.
Whether your heart beats for historical drama, contemporary performance, or innovative interdisciplinary studies, our friendly and supportive academic community is here to fuel your curiosity and help you craft a path that's as distinctive as your own stage presence
Beyond physical resources, PhD students foster connections with acting, technical, and producing students, engaging in collaborative research activities outside their scheduled classes and rehearsals.
Explore our drama research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.
More information can be found about research degrees on our Department of Literature, Film and Theatre Studies.
and East 15 Acting School pages.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/economics:
Are you ready for a financially rewarding career?
An undergraduate degree in economics can help you develop critical thinking skills, analyse complex data, and gain a deep understanding of economic principles.
Get the skills and qualifications you need to succeed in a competitive world.
There are three types of economics degrees you can choose from:
The difference between a BA and a BSc in economics can be found in the focus and mathematical content of the degree:
The distinction between economics degree types can vary between universities.
Some institutions may offer BA and BSc courses with similar content, whilst others will teach a different blend of quantitative and applied course content.
Our economics professors tackle the topics everyone wants to know, but no one wants to ask.
Get their honest answers to your unfiltered questions, and decide if economics is for you.
Leading economist and Head of the Department of Economics at Essex, Professor Carlos Carrillo-Tudela explains what economics is all about:
"Economics is the study of the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services.
But, at its core, economics is about understanding human behaviour.
It's about how we make decisions with limited resources to satisfy our unlimited wants.
By studying economics, you'll be able to interpret the very essence of our value system.
It's a fascinating and hugely insightful discipline."
Some of the key economic concepts you will study at degree level include:
Economics is divided into two main branches:
"It's a great question, and one many students are deliberating as they weigh the cost of higher education.
Economics offers a versatile blend of analytical skills, economic theory, and real-world application.
It can help open doors to a wide range of high-paying and influential careers." Some of the key benefits of studying economics include:
With years of experience teaching economics at degree level, Carlos shares his thoughts on the value and application of an economics degree:
"I've had the privilege of watching countless students graduate and thrive in diverse fields after studying economics at degree level.
So, whether you're interested in understanding global markets, shaping economic policy, or building a successful career in finance, a degree in economics can provide the foundation you need to get ahead in a competitive job market."
"I get asked this a lot - of course I'm somewhat biased, but I believe that an economics degree remains one of the strongest choices you can make if you choose to pursue a university education.
The field continues to be relevant and in-demand due to its broad applications across various industries and its ability to equip graduates with valuable skills." Here are some reasons why economics can be a good degree choice:
Carlos is mindful when advising students on the worth of an economics degree:
"Whilst the job market can fluctuate, and it's certainly changeable at this point in time, economics graduates continue to be in solid demand.
It's a very viable choice for those seeking a challenging and rewarding academic pursuit."
Professor Carlos Carillo-Tudela is the Head of the Department of Economics at the University of Essex.
He is also co-editor of Labour Economics, the official journal of the European Association of Labour Economists.
His research focuses on the effects of human capital on unemployment and earnings inequality.
Carlos's work has influenced UK policymakers including; HM Treasury, the Department of Work and Pensions, the Bank of England, and the Low Pay Commission.
He regularly speaks at central banks, international conferences, and institutes including the International Monetary Fund.
When he's not teaching or researching, Carlos enjoys playing guitar in a band, taking long walks, running and tennis.
Professor Eric Smith , Director of Student Recruitment in the Department of Economics at Essex, talks about the challenge and rewards of studying economics.
"Economics can be intellectually demanding, which is why it is often financially rewarding.
Over the years, I have watched countless students arrive with initial uncertainty, only to flourish as they tackle challenging concepts and develop their skills."
Several factors impact how hard an economics degree is.
They include:
There are a few areas which economics students often find challenging:
"All students start their economics degrees with differing levels of knowledge and experience.
It's what makes that undergraduate journey so special and unique.
But with dedication, hard work and a passion for the subject, many students make exponential progress as they become more invested in the discipline."
"Ah - the million dollar question.
Grades are top of everyone's mind as they start to consider making a university application.
While three GCSEs are typically the minimum requirement for an economics degree, specific subject and grade requirements can vary between universities and courses."
Some common requirements for an economics degree include:
Eric encourages students to consider economics, even if they are concerned about qualifications.
Here is Eric's advice on how to research different universities and courses to find the best fit:
"Make sure you check the specific admission criteria, and take note of any additional requirements, such as coursework or work experience.
If you're in doubt, try reaching out to the university - many institutions will be happy to offer personalised advice and guidance."
"A good understanding of mathematics is helpful if you're going to study economics at degree level.
But don't worry if you're still learning - we can help you develop your skills if you're passionate and willing to commit."
How strong math skills can support a degree in economics:
Eric believes a strong mathematical foundation can benefit economics students.
But he stresses not all economics degrees are equal:
"The amount of maths needed to complete your economics degree will vary between universities and courses.
Which is why it's important to choose a course that aligns with your interests and skills.
For example, a BA in economics may require less advanced math in comparison to a BSc in economics."
"Economics can still be an option if you don't get the maths grades you need.
Some universities offer foundation years for students not yet ready for the full degree."
If you don't pass maths A-Level, a foundation degree in economics can help you:
Eric offers some words of advice for students worried about grades:
"I encourage students not to worry - everyone realises their academic potential at different times.
If you fall short of the degree requirements, a foundation year can provide a fantastic entry point to a full degree.
Not every university will offer this option, so I recommend finding a prospective course sooner rather than later if you are worried."
"Ultimately, your best choice will depend on your individual interests, strengths, and career goals.
If you prefer a more philosophical and qualitative approach, a BA might be better choice for you.
However if you have a strong mathematical background and you're drawn to quantitative analysis, a BSc could be a better fit."
Eric advises students to think carefully about their gaols and personal interests:
"Choosing a course that supports you and your interests is always prudent.
It can be tempting to choose a degree based on prestige alone.
But that is like choosing a branded pair of shoes without trying them on for size.
Know yourself, take your time, and consider your goals - there are plenty of fantastic economics degrees to choose from."
Professor Eric Smith is the Director of Student Recruitment in the Department of Economics at the University of Essex.
He is also an Associate Editor of the European Economic Review.
Eric's research focuses on the labour and housing markets.
His work has been featured in the Review of Economic Dynamics, the International Economic Review, Labour Economics journal, Economics Letters journal, the Journal of Human Capital, and Macroeconomic Dynamics journal.
He has held long-term visiting positions at the University of British Columbia, McMaster University, the University of Pennsylvania, Georgetown University, Rutgers University, the University of North Carolina, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
When Eric isn’t teaching students about macroeconomics, he enjoys making coffee in the morning for his wife, bicycling to and from school and around the countryside with his son, and traveling almost anywhere with both.
Considering a career in economics?
Professor Marco Francesconi gives the lowdown on career options for economics graduates.
Marco is an influential economist, author, and the Director of Employability in the Department of Economics at the University of Essex.
"An economics degree can lead to many exciting and fulfilling career paths.
It's a truly versatile degree with incredible upside potential.
As society becomes increasingly data-driven, the demand for skilled economists will continue to grow."
Here are some popular sectors and jobs you can do with an economics degree: Finance:
Consulting:
Government:
Academia:
Other:
When helping students get career-ready, Marco often advises they begin with a careful consideration of their economics degree focus:
"The specific job you pursue will often depend on your degree specialisation.
Many of my econometrics students find themselves drawn to more data-driven roles.
In contrast, my students whose degree includes a more qualitative focus - for example, development economics - tend to pursue careers in international organisations."
"That's a fantastic question because the answer isn't always obvious.
Many applicants considering an economics degree think initially of career options involving banking or finance.
However, the employment potential for economists is far broader.
You'll find economists working everywhere, from tech companies to health care."
Economists are sought after by a wide range of organisations, including:
Marco shares his insights about the day-to-day responsibilities of employment as an economist:
"Your specific role and responsibilities can vary depending on the organisation and the industry you find yourself in.
However, economists are often found analysing economic data, conducting research, and providing expert advice on economic issues."
"As the global economic outlook has tightened, students and parents are becoming more focused on salary outcomes post-graduation.
This increased cost-benefit analysis is now an important part of the decision to continue higher education.
The good news is economics offers a diverse employment landscape, which includes some very financially rewarding career paths."
The salary for an undergraduate economics graduate can vary significantly depending on several factors, including:
Marco carefully advises his students on how to maximise their future earning potential:
"Starting salaries for undergraduate economics graduates can vary widely.
Many find themselves in well-paying positions.
But don't forget - earning potential is contingent on several factors.
Your career choice, geographical location, qualification level, and work ethic all play a role in determining your financial outcome.
Generally speaking, the more advanced your education, the greater your career options and starting salary tend to be."
"For students that want to go all the way, you have a broad range of options ahead of you.
Because an economics undergraduate degree provides such a strong foundation for learning, you can advance your studies in a number of ways."
Here are some popular masters degrees that complement an economics undergraduate degree: Economics-related masters degrees:
Complementary masters degrees for economics undergraduates:
Marco has helped countless students choose their academic path to support a future career goal.
He offers some practical insight on how best to do this:
"Ultimately, your choice of higher education should support your career goals and personal interests.
I often get asked which career makes the most money - a logical question if you're considering becoming an economist.
However, I always encourage my students to consider their personal goals - not just their financial ones.
Your interest level, passion, and determination can have a more profound and far-reaching impact on future earnings than your course choice."
Professor Marco Francesconi is the Director of Employability in the Department of Economics at the University of Essex.
He is an Associate Editor of the European Economic Review and an Editor-in-Chief of Labour Economics.
Marco's research focuses on family economics, gender, income inequality, early child outcomes, and health.
His work has appeared in the Journal of Political Economy, Economic Journal, Journal of Health Economics, European Economic Review, International Economic Review, Journal of the European Economic Association, and Journal of Human Resources.
Marco also holds many research roles in institutions across Europe.
When Marco isn't helping students progress their future careers, he enjoys travelling with his family, going to concerts, and cooking.
Meet the lecturers, discover our famous alumni, and learn about undergraduate student life in the Department of Economics.
Want to advance your career and economic understanding?
A masters degree in economics will give you a deeper understanding of theoretical economics, applied economics, and quantitative methods.
Get qualified, boost your career profile, and prepare for a financially rewarding future.
There are three types of economics masters degrees you can choose from:
Here's quick summary of the differences between economics masters degrees:
Our expert economists answer your toughest questions about economics masters degrees.
Get their genuine answers to your top queries, and decide if a masters in economics is for you.
Considering a masters in economics?
Economist and Director of Postgraduate Taught Studies in Economics at Essex, Dr Ahrash Dianat answers your most asked questions about studying economics at masters level.
"A masters degree in economics can give you a strong foundation in analytical thinking, economic theory, and practical application.
It's an advanced degree which can lead to many well-paid and influential career opportunities."
Some of the key benefits of an economics masters degree include:
"That's a tough call, and the short answer is - it depends.
Progressing from a bachelors degree to a masters degree is a big commitment.
I always advise my students that an undergraduate degree can open doors to many roles.
But if you have your heart set on a senior position, then a masters degree in economics can significantly enhance your prospects."
Here's when a masters in economics can be beneficial:
When a masters in economics might not be essential:
Ahrash offers some open and honest advice for those considering an economics masters degree:
"It's important to be realistic about your goals.
If you're aiming for a top finance role, a masters degree in economics can give you the edge.
But if you want to gain practical industry experience, climbing the career ladder might be a better option for you right now."
"Ultimately, the 'worth' of any degree is subjective, so you can only judge in hindsight.
However, advanced economics degrees often lead to lucrative careers.
Whilst nothing is guaranteed, your skills, dedication, education, and even geographical location can play a role in determining your financial success."
Here are some considerations when determining the worth of an economics degree:
Ahrash offers a balanced perspective on the value of a masters degree:
"It's a hugely personal decision which rests upon your circumstances and career goals.
It's invaluable for students wanting to advance their knowledge in a new direction - for example, switching from marketing to behavioural economics.
It can also be a fantastic investment if you're thinking of joining a competitive industry such as finance.
But don't forget, masters degrees aren't the only means to advance your career."
"The return on investment for a masters in economics can be incredible.
But your financial success rests upon many factors - not just your level of education.
The more skilled you become, the greater your ability to work in more specialised roles and industries.
This specialisation tends to drive starting salaries upwards and increase your ability to access these careers."
Factors affecting return on investment for a masters in economics:
General trends to be aware of:
Ahrash offers some cautionary words to those making higher education decisions based solely on financial outcomes:
"Return on investment for an economics degree - or any degree - is not guaranteed.
There are so many factors at play.
Economic conditions, individual career choices, and even luck, to name a few.
What a masters degree in economics can do is quickly advance your understanding and suitability for specialised careers.
It's a way of evidencing your capabilities and commitment to your chosen career path.
It gives you the best chance of elevating your skillset and CV in a competitive world."
Dr Ahrash Dianat is the Director of Postgraduate Taught Studies in the Department of Economics at the University of Essex.
Ahrash is a passionate and committed lecturer.
He teaches students at Essex about experimental economics, behavioural economics, and market design.
His research uses lab experiments to understand choices, games and markets.
His work is frequently published in leading journals including Experimental Economics and Games and Economic Behaviour.
When he's not helping masters students become skilled economists, Ahrash enjoys watching movies and playing poker.
Could you do a masters in economics?
Professor Marcus Chambers , Deputy Director of Postgraduate Taught Studies in the Department of Economics at Essex, outlines what you need to study a masters in economics.
"Everyone assumes that a masters degree in economics requires a degree in maths.
You might be surprised to know this isn't always the case.
Of course, some economics degrees, such as an MSc or an MRes, will require some form of undergraduate study in a related field like maths or statistics.
But many MAs do not.
An MA can be an excellent choice for graduates transitioning into the field."
Things to consider when researching the requirements for a masters in economics:
If in doubt, Marcus always advises that students reach out to their prospective institution:
"Many universities will be more than happy to help you understand if you are a suitable candidate for an economics degree.
I think there are some real myths to debunk about who can take a masters degree in economics.
It isn't just about having crazy maths skills.
I teach students from various academic backgrounds - it's part of what makes economics at masters level so fascinating and diverse."
"That's a common question, but truthfully, the answer depends entirely upon the person asking the question.
The "best" degree type depends upon your interests, skills, and career goals.
For example, if you want to understand the social consequences of government policy, I would probably recommend an MA degree rather than an MSc or MRes.
However, if you want to dig into the more technical aspects of economics and are considering a research career, an MSc or an MRes might be better for you.
There really is no one size fits all."
Key factors to consider when selecting an economics masters degree:
"When choosing between degree types, it is essential to consider your career goals and academic strengths.
I think there is a tendency to view a particular degree type as more valuable than another.
But in reality, that's not the case.
They are differently structured and focused because they provide entirely different academic outcomes."
Marcus offers some practical advice on how to find the best economics masters degree for you:
"Before you begin searching for a degree, take the time to consider your skillset and your career goals.
Once you have identified your strengths and aims, you can narrow down the courses and institutions that best support you.
Taking this measured approach will help you find the best possible masters degree for you."
"I get asked this over and over again!
Often, eager students want to get into the world and start earning.
Typically, a masters degree in economics lasts one or two years.
Ultimately, your chosen course length depends on your background and desired outcome."
It's essential to note that these are general guidelines.
The exact duration can vary depending on:
Marcus notes that flexibility is often a key concern for students:
"Students at this stage of their education are often balancing multiple priorities.
Work and family commitments can start to creep into their schedule, which can be a real challenge.
I think universities offering full and part-time options are far better suited to the real needs of students.
Some of my students want to get it over and done with, so a full-time one-year degree is an excellent choice for accelerating their learning curve.
However, I have many students who need something more flexible, and the part-time two-year options enable them to balance life with study."
"Masters degrees in economics are generally considered challenging.
That said, the level of challenge can vary significantly depending on the degree type and your chosen course.
Economics courses with a more quantitative focus, such as the MRes and MSc degrees, are often considered more academically challenging than an MA in economics.
Whichever course you choose, you can expect a rigorous workload, complex coursework, research projects, and potentially a thesis." Factors affecting difficulty:
Tips for success:
Marcus shares his insights on how best to tackle a challenging economics degree program:
"It's true that many students find their masters degree in economics demanding.
But there are a few tips to help you get ahead.
Finding a university with strong student support is essential if you're concerned about academic performance.
A good university will offer extensive resources such as peer and academic mentorship programmes.
At Essex, we even have a dedicated drop-in laboratory run by data analysis experts to help students improve their quant skills."
"While challenging, it's entirely possible to pursue a masters in economics without a formal mathematical background.
Many of my masters students do not come from traditional maths-focused degrees.
Instead, they have graduated from social sciences or humanities degrees such as business or politics, before deciding to progress with a masters in economics."
Marcus offers some sound advice for those looking to complete an economics degree without a maths background:
"The key is to select the right degree and the right institution.
An MA in economics can often be a fantastic choice for students who are more inspired to understand the social and philosophical aspects of economics as opposed to the numerical ones.
If you pair the right degree focus with good academic support, you'll be off to a great start."
To increase your chances of success:
Marcus offers some tips to improve your application to an economics masters degree if you haven't studied maths:
"Remember, mathematics is essential for many economics degrees, but not all.
A strong interest in economic theory and policy can also be valuable.
I recommend considering how you can evidence your interest.
Past studies or even personal projects can certainly help your application stand out.
Your passion and persistence are of as much importance as your academic credentials.
You are more than your grades -  a good university will recognise that."
Professor Marcus Chambers is the Deputy Director of Postgraduate Taught Studies in the Department of Economics at the University of Essex.
Marcus is currently a Co-Editor of the Journal of Time Series Analysis, a former member of the Editorial Board of Econometrics, a former Associate Editor of the Journal of Econometrics, and Deputy Director of the Essex Centre for Macro and Financial Econometrics.
His research interests include econometric theory, time series, macro and financial econometrics, commodity prices, and exchange rates.
His work has been published in leading journals such as Econometric Theory, Journal of Econometrics, Journal of Political Economy, and International Economic Review.
When he's not teaching or researching, Marcus enjoys reading, playing guitar and astronomy.
Wondering where a masters in economics will take you?
Professor Kate Rockett , a leading economist and lecturer in the Department of Economics at the University of Essex discusses the career path for postgraduates in economics.
"A masters degree in economics will equip you with a strong foundation in analytical thinking.
You'll gain a brilliant insight into economic theory and data analysis.
It's a versatile degree that can open doors to many career paths and industries worldwide.
It is a truly global opportunity."
Potential career paths for masters graduates of economics:
Having guided countless students towards successful careers, Kate has observed the diverse career paths taken by masters students:
"I have watched my masters students achieve high-flying positions in many industries, from tech start-ups to research institutes and everything in between.
It never ceases to amaze me how flexible a masters in economics can be.
It speaks to the versatility of this path of study and the resourcefulness of economics students."
"This is often the first question on everyone's mind as they consider a masters degree.
After completing an undergraduate degree, you want to be sure that your next step will lead you closer to your ultimate career path."
Common sectors and roles for masters in economics graduates:
Finance and investment:
Government and public sector:
Other industries:
Kate urges masters applicants to consider their next step carefully:
"Your career path often depends on your degree focus.
For example, students with a quantitative focus, such as econometrics, are well-suited for research or data analysis roles.
Those with a more qualitative focus, like development economics, may pursue diverse careers in journalism, policy, or international organisations."
"This is the most common question I get asked, for obvious reasons.
As students consider spending more time and money on higher education, they carefully weigh the risks and rewards.
Salaries and future earnings are on everyone's mind - and it's completely understandable."
Salaries for a masters graduate in economics vary widely.
Factors impacting salary include:
Kate outlines the financial outcome for masters of economics graduates:
"Masters of economics graduates generally enjoy competitive salaries.
Starting salaries can vary wildly, but the long-term earning potential can be significant - especially in finance and consulting.
But remember, nothing is guaranteed.
If financial outcome is your motivation, I urge you to research specific job roles and salaries before embarking on the next step in your journey."
"Finance is a sector renowned for its competitive salaries, and an economics masters degree can be a valuable asset in this field."
Here is a general overview of potential salary ranges:
Please note: These are rough estimates and not guaranteed.
Actual salaries can be much higher or lower.
Several factors influence earnings within the finance industry:
Kate offers some priceless advice for applicants hoping to gain entry to a top financial institution:
"Many well-known institutions offer graduate schemes.
These programs don't necessarily guarantee permanent employment.
They are more of an extended interview process, helping companies recruit the best talent.
Pay during the program is often good, albeit much lower than the starting salary for permanent employees.
A graduate scheme can be a fantastic route, allowing you to decide whether this is the company and industry for you."
"Yes, you can pursue an MBA after completing a masters in economics.
In fact, economics can provide a strong foundation for an MBA.
However, depending on your chosen MBA program, a masters degree is not always necessary.
It is also worth noting that an MBA can be completed at a much later stage in your career so you have plenty of time to decide whether this is the path for you."
Key benefits of combining a masters in economics with an MBA:
As always, Kate advises caution before making a commitment:
"Consider your career goals before deciding your next step.
If your interest lies in economic research or policy, you might find a PhD more suitable.
If you are unsure, it is always worth contacting your preferred university for help.
Many will be happy to help you consider your options."
"After completing a masters in economics, several academic paths are open to you.
I often get asked this by students considering their future careers.
Not everyone arrives at the postgraduate level with a firm idea of their ideal job, and that's ok.
Understanding which options are available to you post-graduation is a wise move."
Here are some typical paths of study for masters graduates in economics:
Doctoral Studies:
Professional Qualifications:
"The best choice depends on your career goals and personal interests.
Before making your application, take the time to consider what sparks your interest.
A masters in economics can lead to so many fascinating careers - you might find yourself spoilt for choice!"
Professor Kate Rockett has worked in the Department of Economics at the University of Essex since 1999.
Before joining Essex, she worked in high-profile institutions worldwide, including the Institut d’Analisi Economica in Barcelona and the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois.
Her research interests include the economics of research and development, new technologies, firm organisation, and licensing.
Kate has worked with the European Commission on a report on the interplay between intellectual property and competition policy.
Her work has appeared in the Journal of Industrial Economics, the Journal of Public Economics, the Rand Journal of Economics, and the American Economic Review.
When Kate isn't lecturing or researching, she enjoys exercise, reading, and minor DIY.
She also spends an unhealthy amount of time on crosswords and Sudoku.
Meet the lecturers, discover our famous alumni, and learn about postgraduate student life in the Department of Economics.
Located at the heart of an internationally recognised social science network, you receive advanced research training, expert supervision to support progression through the programme and top quality research facilities.
We know you need access to computers and a quiet place to work so we guarantee office space for you in our PhD Research Centre.
Our staff have expertise in areas such as microeconomics, macroeconomics, econometrics, and applied economics.
Although the list below is not exhaustive, it gives you an insight into the wide range of applied and theoretical topics in which we offer supervision.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/engineering:
Engineering is crucial in shaping our modern world, enabling instant global communication, and paving the way for cutting-edge technologies of the future.
Our students play a vital role in developing the technology that impacts our daily lives.
Discover the field of engineering with us, where you'll enjoy a unique experience and have access to excellent facilities .
Our courses are designed to provide you with hands-on skills essential for the professional world, shaped by the real needs of industries.
Engineering is at the core of our modern world, driving instant global communication and paving the way for tomorrow's cutting-edge technologies.
From the internet connecting us globally, to the telecommunications shaping our interactions, and the affordable computing powering our daily lives—all of these advancements are made possible through engineering.
Our students play a crucial role in developing the technology we use every day.
In 1981, we pioneered a ground-breaking telephone-based system specifically designed for the deaf community.
Our innovative solution integrated cameras and display devices, ingeniously working within the limited telephone bandwidth of the time.
Beyond that milestone, our dedicated academics have also developed a highly efficient protocol system for high-speed optical communications, revolutionising global connectivity.
We're proud to be at the forefront of technology, creating solutions that make communication more inclusive and the world more connected .
We offer six dedicated labs for computer science and electronic engineering students, with three available 24/7.
Access is free, except during scheduled practical classes.
Our specialised facilities support research in non-invasive brain-computer interfaces, robotics, optoelectronics, video, RF and MW, printed circuit milling, and semiconductors.
Engineering graduates are presented with a wide array of career possibilities, spanning cybersecurity, network and systems engineering, forensic analysis, and quality assurance.
Studying in our School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering ensures you acquire the technical and transferable skills essential for success in your post-graduation career.
Advancements in engineering have brought about the realisation of modern computing.
Our graduates play a pivotal role in bringing to life the technologies we use daily.
At Essex, you'll refine your creativity, teamwork, and leadership skills, honing your ability to design with dedication and expertise.
Participate in collaborative initiatives with our research staff by enrolling in our Research Experience Scheme .
This opportunity allows you to actively contribute to cutting-edge projects spanning networks, multimedia, optoelectronics, the Internet of Things, and robotics.
As you join the ranks of the next generation of industry professionals and academic researchers, you'll play a pivotal role in both economic growth and the advancement of knowledge boundaries.
This scheme offers more than just project involvement; it provides an exclusive behind-the-scenes glimpse into the world of research.
Through this immersive experience, you will not only witness but also acquire and refine skills crucial for producing systematic and structured solutions.
These honed skills will undoubtedly prove beneficial in your future career, serving as compelling evidence of your professional development in job applications and interviews.
Develop electronic systems in our bespoke labs
Work alongside academic researchers in a diverse and creative School
Study optoelectronics in close detail using our specialist facilities
Collaborate with our expert members of staff and learn from the best
Get hands-on experience using our state-of-the-art equipment
Become part of our lively research community, immersing yourself in postgraduate research courses that span computer science and electronic engineering disciplines.
Enjoy access to cutting-edge labs and facilities , which include a semiconductor clean room and a printed circuit milling facility.
As a research student, you'll benefit from dedicated office space and specialised equipment, creating an optimal environment to advance your research pursuits.
Unlock opportunities for skill enhancement through Proficio , our funding for professional development, or explore paid roles as Graduate Laboratory Assistants.
Engage in hands-on learning experiences and collaborative projects alongside industry experts, gaining practical skills and real-world insights.
Cultivate invaluable professional networks by tapping into our robust industry and government connections, providing you with unique opportunities for growth and career advancement.
Explore our engineering research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/english-language:
You're intrigued by the role of language in society.
You appreciate the uniqueness of language, and how it underpins all that we do.
You want to learn how language is acquired and understand its role in each and every one of our daily lives.
When studying English Language you'll learn how language is learnt and used in varying contexts.
You can choose form a variety of subjects to study in combination with English language such as linguistics, English literature and teaching English as a foreign language.
From the media to the marketplace, courtrooms and conversation – everything starts with language.
You'll enhance your communication skills, both written and oral, which are invaluable in professional settings and daily interactions.
Additionally, delving into English language fosters critical thinking, analytical skills, and the ability to interpret and evaluate complex texts.
Moreover, you'll gain a deeper understanding of diverse cultures and historical contexts through literary exploration, enhancing your empathy and global awareness.
Furthermore, an English degree opens doors to various career paths, including education, publishing, media, and international business, due to the universal importance of English proficiency.
Lastly, studying English language at university nurtures creativity, fosters lifelong learning habits, and equips you with adaptable skills essential for success in today's dynamic world.
Discover what it's like to study English language in the Department of Language and Linguistics.
Meet the experts and discover more about life as an undergraduate in this welcoming Department.
In an era of global communication, more people speak English than ever before.
English is the language of the internet, science and medicine, international business and politics.
When you study language, you open the door to a whole new world.
Our English language courses provide you with a deep understanding of the structure and uses of this century's global language.
Ambitious students who are curious about language and its relationship to the world find their home at Essex.
We have a large and thriving graduate research community.
We provide an active and stimulating environment to carry out your doctoral research and offer five routes to a research degree.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/english-language-teaching:
Aspire for a global career?
Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL) is the perfect way to start your adventure!
Our courses are ideal if you want to teach English to non-native speakers.
You gain an in-depth understanding of the English language coupled with the teaching skills you need.
It's not just teaching, the knowledge and skills you develop prepare you for a range of possible careers in the media, administration, business and education; in fact, any job where the ability to apply critical thinking to problems, conduct independent research and communicate the results is required.
Find out what it's like to study English language teaching in the Department of Language and Linguistics.
Our courses will provide you with a deep understanding of the structure and uses of this century's global language and the ability to teach it to non-native speakers.
As well as opportunities to teach around the world, this course provides knowledge and skills which can prepare you for a wide range of careers.
At Essex, we can offer you a supervised research route providing you have a solid knowledge of existing research in the field and a good understanding of research methods.
We offer this course through two routes
Many of our former PhD students work in higher education institutions around the world, as teachers and/or as academic researchers, but also in teacher education.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/entrepreneurship:
Examine the ways in which creative people, dynamic organisations and facilitative environments help to generate economic growth and social transformation.
Entrepreneurship at Essex Business School goes beyond conventional business studies, exploring enterprising mindsets, new venture creation, and innovation across private, public, and voluntary sectors.
Taught on our Southend Campus and ideally placed just a short train ride away from central London.
Our program provides an understanding of new venture establishment, expansion, and a global focus on business.
We not only equip you with business acumen but also enhance your practical skills through entrepreneurial theory, collaborative projects, business simulations, and interactive endeavors.
Graduates are well-prepared to apply their knowledge to launch their own ventures.
At Essex Business School, our aim is not only to impart contemporary business knowledge but, more importantly, to develop your practical skills through group work, business simulation games, and interactive projects.
Many of our graduates choose to utilise their learned skills for entrepreneurial ventures, while others leverage their enterprising abilities for business management and leadership roles.
Essex Business School is dedicated to fostering entrepreneurship and supporting individuals in pursuing their business ambitions.
Carving out your own niche in business can be risky, but the rewards of being your own boss can be significant.
Discover how you can apply the skills gained from your degree to become a business founder and how Essex Business School can incubate your new venture to take you to the next level.
Learn from the incredible entrepreneurial alumni who credit their creativity and ambition for their success, and they are eager to share the secrets of their journey with you.
You'll study with Essex Business School on our Southend Campus , a short train ride from Central London and based in the heart of the Thames Gateway, one of the Government’s key areas for economic growth.
As the home to the highest number of SMEs in the UK, Essex provides an optimal environment for your future business venture or for gaining inspiration to take back home.
Ranked in the Top 175 for Business and Economics in THE World University Rankings by Subject 2025 , your entrepreneurship masters degree will help you explore the challenges faced by entrepreneurs, and to consider the disruptive potential of intrapreneurship.
With a focus on diverse backgrounds, our masters courses equip students with the essential skills to launch your future start-up.
Choose to study entrepreneurship alongside international marketing, international business, or innovation to tailor your academic journey and join us at Essex, where entrepreneurship isn't just a subject—it's a way of life.
Entrepreneurship, innovation and international management fuel the growth of regions.
Our thought leaders are proud to be leading research that has an impact on people's everyday lives, influencing policy and practice and shaping the next generation of businesses.
Our international researchers work alongside our PhD students to study topics including supply chain and operations, strategy, the challenges faced by specific entrepreneurial groups, the development of the intrapreneur and how entrepreneurship is delivered in the national curriculum.
We aim to champion innovative interdisciplinary projects and support our PhD students to design and conduct the research project you choose, rather than telling you to complete it in a particular way.
We are very proud that 100% of our business and management research environment is world-leading or internationally excellent and that we are 20th in UK for research power in business and management (Times Higher Education research power measure) in the Research Excellence Framework 2021.
We’re pleased to be able to offer an integrated PhD, for students who have a strong research proposal but who do not have previous research or Masters-level study experience.
Explore our entrepreneurship research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/european-studies:
Fascinated by European Culture?
At Essex, European Studies spans
 many aspects of European life, encompassing history, politics, sociology, and
 literature.
Eager to unravel what makes Europe the complex continent we know it as today?
If you have a thirst for knowledge of all things European, from history and politics to sociology and literature, European Studies is for you.
Explore the economic, legal, and sociological landscape of Europe, delving into its historical roots while gaining insights into its diverse cultural heritage.
The profound impact of European artists, writers, musicians, composers, and filmmakers persists, undiminished by America's global dominance.
You have the opportunity to delve into various topics, such as:
There has never been a more pivotal moment to delve into the study of Europe.
At Essex, you will engage in discussions about the future of Europe, examine its diverse landscapes, and fully immerse yourself in European culture.
Explore our department page to learn more about our faculty, and it's research opportunities.
European Studies helps you gain skills across many areas, including; import/export management, banking and financial sectors, academia, airlines, information technology, management, museums, teaching, non-governmental offices, and development agencies in the UK and abroad.
Our graduates have gone on to work for a wide range of organisations including:
Other recent graduates have also undertaken traineeships with the European Commission, for the Directorate-General for Education and Culture, and various internships in journalism and with NGOs.
Explore the career opportunities European Studies can provide.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/events-hospitality-and-tourism-management:
You're a people person that enjoys working in a fast-paced
 environment and creating memories of a lifetime for your customers.
You want
 to see the world and build a successful career at the same time.
Start your journey into the vibrant world of tourism, hospitality and events management with us at the Edge Hotel School .
You'll study within the luxurious settings of a four-star hotel - Wivenhoe Park Hotel, and gain the expertise to orchestrate seamless guest experiences, mastering the art of planning and executing memorable events.
The tourism, hospitality, and events industry is a global sector with limitless opportunities.
Have you ever thought about working in upscale hotels all over the world?
Perhaps you’ve considered becoming a director at a theme park or even starting your own business as a sommelier or wedding planner.
Studying hospitality and events management at the degree level complements these aspirations by offering a comprehensive education and a diverse skill set, equipping you with organisational, communication, and problem-solving skills.
This degree provides practical knowledge directly applicable to the industry, global perspectives, and networking opportunities.
It opens doors to higher-level positions, enhances credibility, and fosters personal development.
Whether you aspire to work face-to-face with customers or prefer working behind the scenes, the hospitality and events industry, with its dynamic nature, offers creative freedom and the potential for a fulfilling and diverse career.
Study with the Edge Hotel School , the first university in the UK with a fully operational 4-star hotel on campus – the Wivenhoe Park Hotel .
Upon joining us, you'll gain valuable work experience alongside your studies, preparing you for a seamless transition into the workforce upon graduation.
We have robust industry connections , giving you the opportunity to collaborate with businesses consultancy projects (Tourism, Hotel Management and Hospitality Management) or event project (Events Management with Hospitality and Events Management), offering first-hand exposure to businesses that can shape your future career.
Not only will you study within a 4-star hotel environment, you'll actively participate in running conferences, events, dining services, reception, reservations, and room bookings through rotational study, providing a comprehensive understanding of hotel operations.
You'll benefit from exceptional career support with modules covering various disciplines like Marketing, Finance, Human Resources, Operations, and Entrepreneurship.
Graduates acquire versatile knowledge and skills, opening doors to diverse and rewarding roles in Hospitality and Events Management.
The Edge Hotel School's Annual Careers Fair facilitates networking opportunities, connecting students with representatives from across the UK.
Our students have also pursued additional self-organised work experience placements with renowned establishments like Shangri-La The Shard, Red Carnation Hotels, and Marriott, leveraging the School's industry connections.
The unique design of the degrees with the Edge Hotel School mean you will graduate with years of work experience, connections with leaders all across the hospitality, events and tourism industries and a continued support network from the school and the university as you enter the working world.
All of our 3 year undergraduate degrees also offer the opportunity to take a year abroad.
Study abroad
If you already have a related level 5 qualification and are looking to specialise in the hospitality and events industry, or would like to level up your professional career, we offer the option to join the final academic year of the relevant degrees; you will then graduate with a full BA degree.
Our Foundation courses cover the first 2 years of our BA degrees.
You will have the same opportunities as those on the BA courses including the work placements at Wivenhoe House Hotel.
After completing the FdA courses you will have the opportunity, subject to satisfactory performance, to continue with your studies and finish with a BA degree.
At the Edge Hotel School, operate an industry engaged learning model.
From the beginning of your degree, you will be working various rotations within Wivenhoe House Hotel, giving you experience in various sections of the hotel and events management that will boost your employability options after graduating.
Not only are you able to work in a real hotel and on genuine events, serving real customers and facing real challenges, but our courses have also been designed to offer you as much exposure to the industry and its current practices as possible.
With our annual EHS careers fair with representatives from across the UK, the Annual Student’s Conference with a networking event in London in the evening, visiting guest lecturers and field trips to relevant companies.
Find out more about careers and employability from the Edge Hotel School.
It takes more than knowledge to succeed – it takes experience, strategy and understanding.
Edge Hotel School is the first hotel school of its kind in the UK, with learning and student experience bolstered by the use of its own fully-commercial luxury country house hotel, Wivenhoe House .
Our Masters programme, led by Edge Hotel School and delivered in collaboration with Essex Business School , gives its students a deeper understanding and experience of the international hospitality industry alongside the strategies of successful management.
We also have the opportunity for you to study a research degree with us, earning your PhD.
In a sector that is growing in cultural and geographical diversity, this Masters will equip you with the essential skills to manage teams across cultures, build international business strategies and understand the ever-advancing requirements needed to succeed in a management career anywhere in the world.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/film-studies:
At Essex, we offer a truly global
approach to the study of film within a distinctive and vibrant academic
community.
Balancing academic theory with practical production experience aims
to shape students into well-rounded filmmakers.
Students have access to
state-of-the-art HD cameras, extensive editing facilities, a film library, and
a dedicated cinema.
Our approach combines the study of film theory with practical production, allowing you to develop well-rounded film scholar skills and a deeper knowledge of film.
Our production modules empower you to apply academic knowledge, refining and enriching your own practical work.
Our academics and filmmakers provide you with the analytic, technical, and creative skills needed to understand and create films.
You'll have the opportunity to collaborate with professionals like Nic Blower , who boasts over 20 years of experience producing and directing documentaries and dramas for the BBC.
Explore film's historical roots and digital futures, including Hollywood blockbusters, experimental film, and international cinemas, alongside related media.
We cover documentary, video game theory, creative media practice, and television studies, giving you the chance to script, shoot, edit, and exhibit films.
We encourage exploration across genres, time periods, and regions—from Hollywood, world, and independent cinema to documentaries and television.
By the end of your degree, you'll possess an insider's understanding of why visual media are central to our experience of the modern world.
Our graduates are well-equipped for diverse career paths, including film production, television, journalism, publishing, and teaching.
Recent alumni have gone on to the following roles:
Find out more about careers and employability, and the support we provide within the Departments of Literature, Film and Theatre Studies.
As part of our MA in Film, you will have the opportunity to examine the formal, social, cultural and political dimensions of films.
Our MA program allows you to explore:
Additionally, masterclasses led by industry professionals enhance your technical skills in cinematography, directing, and editing/postproduction.
Pursue a PhD in Film Studies, delving into our diverse staff's extensive research expertise, which spans global film and media through various approaches.
Explore a wide array of subjects, including world cinemas, film history, theory, comparative and new media, festivals, media platforms, and the contexts of film and media production and reception.
Benefit from our staff's interdisciplinary expertise, fostering innovative research, and receive consistent support from your supervisor and advisory board throughout your studies.
Explore our film studies research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/finance-and-banking:
Home to one of the largest groups of finance academics in the UK, you'll learn to forecast share prices, manage investment portfolios, financial technology, and big data.
You'll not only become a skilled practitioner but also a responsible, ethical and sustainable one too.
We’ll help you to understand the impact that the financial sector has on the world and its people, and how finance professionals can be a force for positive change.
You'll gain access to:
We're also in the top 200 for Accounting and Finance in QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025.
A degree in finance and banking from Essex Business School will equip you with industry standard skills and the practical application of knowledge and tools required to succeed in any area of the finance and banking sector.
Find out more about where a degree in finance and banking can take you and how our business school can support you.
Explore the range of finance Master's degrees at Essex Business School , home to the one of the largest Finance Groups in the UK and also home to the Essex Finance Centre and the Essex Centre for Macro and Financial Econometrics .
Led by a a team of experts conducting global research, our degrees cover a broad curriculum, including share price forecasting, investment portfolio management, financial technology, and big data, and are tailored to prepare you for a diverse range of finance specialisations.
Our degrees will open doors for your future careers in investment banking, fund management, quantitative analysis, and sustainable finance.
With facilities like a virtual trading floor , Essex Business School is dedicated to providing first-class transformational education aligned with the dynamic financial services sector.
Essex offers flagship programs like MSc Finance and MRes Finance, with the latter designed for those aiming for research careers in finance.
Specialised Master's degrees, such as MSc Finance and Data Analytics, MSc Financial Technology, MSc Finance and Global Trading, MSc Financial Engineering and Risk Management, MSc Banking and Finance, and MSc Finance and Investment, cater to specific interests, from data analytics to global trading.
We believe in advancing financial research that makes a difference to industry.
Work by our researchers is discussed at the most influential financial institutions in the world, such as the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve, but most importantly it is relevant to real people's lives.
By joining our research community, you’ll be at the forefront of thinking in areas such as the financing of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs), commodity prices and their relation to food poverty, bank risk and regulation, acquisitions and financial econometrics.
We are very proud that Essex is ranked in the top 175 for Business and Economics in THE World University Rankings by Subject 2025 and ranked in the top 200 globally for accounting and finance in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025.
Explore our finance research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/genetics:
The field of genetics is central to our understanding of biology, from modern developments in treating human disease to studying the evolutionary relationships between species.
Genetics is an important, exciting and wide-ranging field to study and the application of genetics in healthcare and research means the prospects for graduates have never been better.
On our courses you study both genetics, at the level of a single gene or group of genes, and genomics, at the level of an organism’s entire genes – the genome.
We focus on real-world applications, including medicine, biotechnology and genomics.
At Essex you will be part of a wide community of geneticists working in medical genetics, genomics, epigenetics and evolution, among other areas.
As the world's environmental problems increase, the demand for qualified biologists and geneticists continues to grow.
Our recent graduates have taken up a wide range of careers in research laboratories, consultancies, business and industry, conservation practice and environmental assessment.
Find out more about careers, employability and the support we can provide on our School of Life Sciences web pages.
Genome sequencing is revolutionising the field of medicine.
Personalised medicine is becoming a priority for health providers and governmental agencies around the world.
Studying genetics with us at postgraduate level will enable you to be a part of the next generation of healthcare providers, equipped with the necessary skills in health data analytics and genomics to make a real difference.
Study at Essex and become an expert in the field of genetics.
Study topics such as:
We will train you to analyse genomic data in connection with health and disease.
You will explore how genome sequences are analysed and you will receive hands-on experience in data analysis.
You will also study gene and genome technologies, as well as have the opportunity to develop your professional skills.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/global-studies:
At Essex we’re fascinated by today’s world challenges and
contemporary issues.
Through this subject, we tackle today's world challenges and address contemporary issues, striving to make a difference and contribute to an inclusive, sustainable future.
A Global Studies degree is the interdisciplinary study of worldwide issues and trends, exploring the interconnected nature of cultures, economies, and societies on a global level.
Our courses aim to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of complex global challenges, including international relations, global economics, cultural diversity, and environmental sustainability.
Throughout the course, you will delve into a diverse range of subjects, addressing issues such as the migrant crisis and global warming, and exploring disciplines such as political science, economics, anthropology, sociology, geography, history, environmental studies, global politics, international development, human rights, globalisation, and cross-cultural communication.
We will empower you with the knowledge and skills necessary to analyse and tackle global challenges; enabling you to approach global issues from multiple perspectives.
Visit our department page to learn more about our faculty, research opportunities, and the diverse array of courses we offer that can enrich your experience at Essex.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/health-and-social-care:
Your chance to start a rewarding journey towards making a meaningful difference in people's lives through health and social care.
Equip yourself with the expertise and compassion needed for a fulfilling career in the healthcare sector.
You're caring, compassionate, and hungry for change in health and social care.
You're keen to advocate for the vulnerable and excited to push for fairer, more equitable health and social care for all.
Health and social care-based courses encompass a broad spectrum of disciplines, including nursing, social work, oral health science, physiotherapy, and more, offering diverse opportunities for individuals passionate about making a difference.
This is your first step to a career changing the lives of thousands of others for the better.
At the School of Health and Social Care at the University of Essex, we recognise the importance of community engagement and hands-on experience.
With strong links to our placement partners in various healthcare sectors, we are committed to providing you with the knowledge and skills necessary to turn your passion for advocacy into a rewarding career.
Our state-of-the-art facilities within the school offer an immersive learning environment, ensuring you're equipped to positively impact thousands of lives whether you aspire to be a nurse, social worker, oral health scientist, or physiotherapist.
If you're considering an apprenticeship route, you should explore potential opportunities with your current or future employer.
We provide Health and Social Care apprenticeships with on-the-job training through employers.
Find out more about our apprenticeship opportunities , and read hints and tips for making your application successful .
Despite the common assumption that healthcare careers primarily involve hospitals and local authorities, the reality is that they span various sectors.
From nurses supporting private sector employees' return to work post-illness, to speech and language therapists aiding rehabilitation after head injuries, opportunities are diverse, including roles in oral health outreach programs, like visiting schools for preventive initiatives, beyond traditional dental practices.
Find out more about the support we provide within the School and the career opportunities available to you with your health and social care degree .
A career in health or social care is unbeatable in our book.
Whether you’re looking to top up your qualifications to progress your current career, or you’re looking for a change of direction, we have something for you.
We offer a broad range of learning opportunities that can be adapted to suit your professional needs, including workshops, bespoke learning, credit-bearing modules and degree pathways.
When you choose to study with us, you'll gain more than just a qualification.
You'll be part of our learning community, and we've got plenty to offer.
Check out our facilities , and find out more about the School of Health and Social Care here .
Our multidisciplinary research addresses local, national, and international issues relating to health and social care policy and practice.
A research degree from Essex enables you to develop applied research skills and advance practice in your field.
Our supportive team has international experience and they work collaboratively with service users and external organisations, giving you access to cutting-edge teaching and research.
Our research is organised into four research groups: Public health and social policy , Assessment and management of neuro-developmental and acquired disorders , Physical and mental health and wellbeing across the lifespan , and Pedagogy research for health and social care .
Explore each group to find out more about our current projects and doctoral research, as well as a list of our academic staff, research staff and postgraduate students associated with each group.
Find out more about our portfolio of courses , as well as hints and tips on making your application .
Explore our Health and Social Care research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.
Find out more about our university wide funding , and opportunities specifically for Health and Social Care students.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/history:
Find your own critical
 voice with us and view history through the eyes of different people.
We
 encourage you to become a true researcher telling hidden histories that might
 otherwise be forgotten.
Embarking on an undergraduate degree in history not only nurtures your passion but also cultivates essential skills applicable in various professional settings.
At Essex, we excel in modern history, offering a diverse exploration of topics from South-African slavery to revolutions in China.
You'll study alongside our expert lecturers, whose industry expertise includes using research on oral history to inform women's health programs and working on company archives to improve business strategy.
History at Essex will not only teach you what happened in the past to inform the future but will also encourage you to think outside the realm of traditional ideas about history, fostering the development of skills essential for your future workplace.
Work alongside historians with industry experience, such as Dr.
Alix Green.
Alix played a pivotal role in demonstrating the business value of archives for John Lewis by leveraging historical records.
This showcased how an understanding of the company's past informed strategic decisions, making her an invaluable figure to study history with for practical insights into the impact of historical knowledge on business success.
Gain access to our library's Special Collection , where you'll have direct access to over 70 archives containing primary source materials and collections covering a variety of subjects and time periods.
Examples include the First World War Centenary Community Collection, a £98 million conservation project of First World War heritage containing leaflets, postcards, catalogues, flyers, DVDs, and CDs produced by groups who received funding for national, local, and community history projects commemorating the centenary of the War.
The department hosts a diverse range of tailored events , allowing students to collaborate closely with tutors to achieve their academic and postgraduate goals.
Reading groups and social events, including lake-side refreshments, pizza evenings, and coffee gatherings, foster connections among students of different years and staff.
Additionally, various societies, such as the History Society and The Memory Studies Reading Group, contribute to an enriched student experience both inside and outside the classroom.
Studying history at Essex opens up numerous rewarding career paths spanning a wide range of fields.
With our degree you develop transferable skills that are highly employable, such as analytical thinking and presenting.
Our graduates go on to pursue careers in areas such as:
Find out more about careers and employability from the School of Philosophical, Historical and Interdisciplinary Studies.
Studying postgraduate history at Essex offers freedom and flexibility to develop areas of interest to you.
With our MA History, you develop key skills, such as analytical thinking and research, through selecting modules and a dissertation topic that resonates with you and your unique interests.
Our historical research community at Essex offers specialisms from the period of 1500 to the present day with a truly global approach.
Currently, we cover history of the following areas:
You will undertake two mandatory modules—one delving into contemporary trends in historical study and the other offering practical insights into conducting historical research—you have the flexibility to select three optional MA modules.
As part of your master's, you undertake a 15,000-word dissertation on a subject of your interest.
Our Master's degree not only facilitates the exploration of local history but also fosters robust connections with the Essex Record Office, renowned as one of the premier county record offices in the UK.
Two Masters students have collected oral histories from volunteers at a local charity in order to document the role of the voluntary and community sector on people's lives locally.
We offer supervision for our PhD in History in a range of topics from the period c.1500 to the present day, with particular focus on themes linked to our three research clusters and our Centre for Public History.
Our research clusters cover several themes:
Whether your interested in specialising in plantation history, or modern war, or pandemic history, we have offer access to academics to nurture you through your area of interest.
At Essex, you can enjoy a supportive learning environment characterized by excellent research training and attentive supervision, fostering positive staff-student relationships.
Our strong connections with the global research community, along with a focus on specific geographical areas, enhance the depth and breadth of your academic experience.
Part-time research study options are available for those seeking flexibility in their academic pursuits.
Join us in advancing your research journey with a program that values both scholarly excellence and a supportive community.
Explore our history research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/human-resource-management:
Successful organisations depend on motivated, efficient and engaged employees.
Our Human Resource Management (HRM) undergraduate degree provides a solid foundation in business and HRM.
Led by some of the leading researchers in HRM, you learn about key people issues and topics facing organisations in the current climate, including, diversity and inclusion, digital HRM and people analytics, and the legal foundations of managing people.
What makes our undergraduate degree different is the emphasis on sustainability and business ethics, which helps you to become a critical thinker and reflective practitioner.
By graduation, you'll be equipped with all the necessary skills and contemporary knowledge required by people management specialists today and will stand out in the graduate job market.
You can also choose to include a placement year, or opt for a study abroad year and develop an advanced level of professional and personal skills.
Human resources roles are some of the fastest growing jobs in organisations today.
This degree will prepare you for a range of roles from recruitment and selection, to training and development, and new and emerging roles in the profession such as digital HR and people analytics.
Gaining CIPD Level 5 accreditation upon successful completion of this course will further strengthen your prospects for a successful career within the industry.
Find out more about the skills you'll learn and the career path your degree could lead to on our Essex Business School web pages.
The world of work and the management of people is constantly evolving with enhanced digitalisation, hybrid work, and precarity.
No matter the type of organisation, people need to be recruited, managed, and motivated to maintain a productive workplace.
At Essex, you'll gain the industry knowledge and practical skills needed to excel in your career in human resource management, organisational change management, and surrounding fields.
Your Masters education will focus on sustainable and ethical people management, providing a solid foundation for you to engage with organisational issues and problems critically and practically.
Whether you’re a newly qualified graduate or an experienced professional looking for a CIPD-accredited course, Essex Business School provides an academically rigorous and applied human resources education so you can rise to the top as a leader or practitioner.
Is the UK's productivity crisis a result of low morale, or a lack of investment in training?
Could gamification help to solve recruitment challenges?
How can we solve gender imbalances in the workplace?
If you want to explore some of human resource management's most important issues, a PhD at Essex could be for you.
At Essex, you can become part of a lively, global research community of more than 100 doctoral students, joining us from around five continents.
Our PhD Management Studies at our Colchester Campus enables you to pursue research into important aspects of human resource management, from ethics and historical perspectives to Human Resource Management (HRM) issues within specific industries and beyond.
Our Centre for Work, Organisation and Society will give you access to the latest research from around the world through seminars and networking opportunities.
You'll also be able to join and benefit from the research carried out within our dedicated research group; Organisation Studies and Human Resource Management Group.
A business isn’t a collection of stock, equipment, and buildings, it is an organisation made up of people., and this research group digs deep into the heart of the people-related issues facing all types of organisations.
You'll join Essex Business School , where you will be supervised by world-leading academics with a wide range of management research interests, from international HRM to power elites.
Whoever you are supervised by, you'll experience a supportive research environment, where you develop your professional skills and research expertise in your chosen area.
Whichever stage you're at with your application, whether you're just beginning or looking for more information, our Research Finder tool allows you to search for potential supervisors, find funding and research opportunities, access our publications, and explore our current research initiatives.
You can discover exactly what you're looking for by entering keywords, or searching by a particular theme.
Visit our Research Finder , or use the search bar below.
More information can be found about research degrees and our research community on our school pages.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/human-rights:
Studying human rights at Essex will enable you to develop
 the skills and confidence to advocate for individual and community rights,
 social justice and social change.
Human rights have no borders or boundaries.
They are the global language of the world.
Our approach is interdisciplinary, with the theory and practice of human rights embedded in our work.
Join our thriving community of expert staff, students and graduates who have genuine global impact in the field.
Our Human Rights Centre is internationally recognised for the breadth and depth of its research projects.
Essex is one of only four universities with a memorandum of understanding with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) , a development that recognises the breadth of education that Essex provides in relation to the protection of refugees.
Unsure of where a Human Rights degree may lead you?
Our graduates have gone onto lead successful careers in organisations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross, GirlPower
and the European Network Against Racism.
Find out more on our careers webpage .
Our courses are informed by our unique interdisciplinary perspective, which gives you a deep and critical knowledge of human rights and their practical application.
At Essex we are concerned with confronting and overcoming oppression and discrimination around the world.
We enjoy a worldwide reputation for research, teaching and practice, and our pioneering staff have held prestigious positions within the UN and other international organisations.
In his role as director of the Essex Armed Conflict and Crisis Hub, Professor Noam Lubell gave evidence to the House of Lords on the use of AI weaponry .
Plus, Dr Marija Jovanovic’s recent report with the Bingham Centre has found cases of modern slave victims serving time in prisons for crimes they were forced to commit .
Essex Human Rights Centre offers the opportunity for students to get involved with various different research projects.
The Human Rights Centre Clinic also runs projects as part of the Human Rights Centre Clinic Module (HU902) , which is open to postgraduate human rights students.
Projects address a range of human rights and humanitarian law-related issues and generally involve research that partners need in order to further human rights advocacy and implementation of human rights or humanitarian law norms.
For example, supporting litigation, advocacy, policy and programme development or technical guidance on human rights.
Our PhD programme draws upon the expertise of over 80 Human Rights Centre members from different academic disciplines.
Our research community encompasses internationally renowned scholars whose work ranges from research into the philosophical and normative bases of human rights, through to more practically-oriented interests in the legal, political and sociological application of human rights.
We specialise in the application of theory to real human rights problems.
Within Essex Law School our research has a particular focus on the right to health, civil and political rights; including the prohibition against torture and detention related issues, and the law of armed conflict and acute crises.
Alternatively, search research finder for your interest as a supervisor may be from a different department but specialise in an area of human rights.
Our Doctoral Affiliates Network is a community of PhD students at the University of Essex, who are engaged in some related aspect of human rights research, and who wish to benefit from sharing ideas and research within a more multi and inter-disciplinary environment than would typically be possible within a single department or discipline.
Membership of the Network is open to any student studying a PhD at Essex.
Explore our Human Rights research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/international-relations:
Want to explore international conflict, cooperation, and competition?
An undergraduate degree in international relations will develop your awareness of global complexities, advanced analytical thinking, and the strategic skills sought after by international employers.
Establish your international expertise, and prepare to make your mark on our interconnected world.
Meet the lecturers, discover our famous alumni, and learn about undergraduate student life in the Department of Government.
Ready to advance your understanding of international diplomacy and power dynamics?
A masters degree in international relations provides specialised knowledge of complex global issues, a practical understanding of conflict resolution, and strategic analytical skills valued by international organisations.
Build your global skills, and get ready to make a global impact.
Meet the lecturers, discover our famous alumni, and learn about postgraduate student life in the Department of Government.
The Department of Government is a powerhouse in the study of international relations.
Our PhD programme provides you with advanced research training and supervision by leading global scholars.
Our students have published in prestigious political science journals such as International Organization, International Studies Quarterly, Journal of Politics, Journal of Conflict Resolution, and Journal of Peace Research, among others.
Our Department of Government offers two routes to a research degree:
Both are three-year programmes.
A PhP is normally for students without a prior Masters degree and you normally take a number of taught modules in your first year.
Enter your research interest and discover experts open to supervision at the University of Essex.
Find funding opportunities, discover scholarships and learn more about postgraduate research in the Department of Government.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/journalism:
Craft compelling narratives, through effective writing and ethical practice and navigate the ever-evolving media landscape, becoming a fearless voice in the pursuit of informing the world.
Studying a multimedia journalism degree equips you for the
fast-changing world where truth and accuracy have never been more vital.
At
Essex, you will get the skills to produce high-quality video, audio, and text
stories across the different platforms, incorporating current industry best practice, including specialisms such as data journalism, investigations, and podcasting.
From day one, immerse yourself in the challenges of the
digital age, learning the skills for all forms of modern journalism.
Learn how to deliver trusted news and information while adapting
to new technologies without compromising core professional values.
Single honours undergraduate students also incorporate work from
their degree as part of their NCTJ diploma, the accreditation valued by
employers.
Studying journalism at Essex equips you with a vast array of transferable skills.
Our graduates have gone on to the following jobs:
Our postgraduate taught journalism degree is designed for students seeking to advance their journalism skills to a higher level.
Whether you have a background in journalism or not, we welcome individuals eager to blend journalism expertise with academic knowledge.
Our program stands out for its flexibility, allowing students to customise their studies based on their interests and career goals.
This flexibility is facilitated through a unique choice between two tracks: the Practice Track and the Theory Track.
The Practice Track is ideal for individuals from diverse disciplines looking to enhance their knowledge with practical journalism skills.
Conversely, the Theory Track caters to those considering a PhD.
in journalism studies.
Our MA program is also at the forefront of innovation, pioneering cutting-edge training in Open-Source Journalism techniques – a first in the UK.
Furthermore, students benefit from a valuable collaboration with Essex's esteemed Human Rights Centre .
This collaboration provides a platform for direct engagement in contemporary issues through participation in the Digital Verification Corps, offering students an active role in addressing matters of significant societal relevance and amplifying the program's impact.
A PhD in Journalism at Essex promises an enriching academic journey with our Department of Literature, Film and Theatre Studies offering expert supervision from accomplished academics.
Spanning topics such as journalism, public communication, and policy in the Middle East and North Africa, we approach critical issues including media, democracy, and propagandistic influences, war reporting, counter-terrorism, and the intricate interplay between news media, social platforms, and politics.
Our commitment to interdisciplinary research connects journalism with creative writing, politics, and human rights, ensuring a comprehensive academic experience.
Throughout your research journey, you will be allocated a dedicated supervisor.
This supervisor will guide you through the stages of your research degree, providing regular one-to-one meetings to discuss your progress.
Our commitment to your success is evident in our regular staff-graduate seminars, providing a forum for students to present and discuss their ongoing work.
Additionally, our supervisory board meetings, held twice a year, offer a more formal avenue to assess progress and plan for the future.
With access to specialist facilities, including cutting-edge studios and equipment, our PhD in Journalism program at Essex ensures that you have the tools and support needed to make meaningful contributions to the field of international journalism.
Explore our journalism research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/latin-american-studies:
With modules in history through to literature,
politics and the arts.
We’ll encourage you to deepen your knowledge of Latin
America and better understand the importance of it’s place in the world.
Our Latin American Studies degrees provide you with the flexibility to tailor your modules to align with your specific interests and delve into avenues deepening your comprehension of the region, and its pivotal role in global affairs, whilst broadening your insight into its rich history, diverse culture, and vibrant languages.
At Essex, your journey into Latin American understanding is enriched by an interdisciplinary approach, spanning humanities and social sciences.
You'll have access to the Essex Collection of Art from Latin America (ESCALA) , the university's dedicated museum  based at our Colchester Campus comprised of more than 750 artworks in a broad range of media dating largely from 1960s to the present.
The Collection has a purpose-designed Teaching and Research space and artworks on public display in the ESCALA Gallery in the Silberrad Student Centre as well as an online catalogue, a Documentation Centre and library of approximately 4,500 archival items and the Albert Sloman Library holds the national collection of 10,000 Latin American art books.
Together these combined resources make the University of Essex the most complete resource for art from Latin America in the UK.
After completing a degree in Latin American studies, you will have gained transferable skills, such as critical thinking, analytics, planning and communication.
Graduates go on to jobs in marketing, advertising, management, banking or communications.
BA in Latin American studies also makes a solid base to pursue postgraduate study or further vocational training to become accountants, lawyers, teachers (both in the UK and overseas) or to enter the Civil Service.
Our PHD program in Latin American Studies at Essex involves immersing yourself in the study of globally significant themes, including indigenous rights, transitional justice, and environmental sustainability.
The commitment to the study of Latin America at Essex dates back to 1964 when our founding Vice-Chancellor, Sir Albert Sloman, emphasized the necessity "to dispel prevailing prejudice and ignorance of the region." Our dynamic community of academics hold this philosophy at the forefront of their research and encourage you to specialise in causes around this subject area that matter to you.
On top of this, ESCALA, The Essex Collection of Art from Latin America (ESCALA) the home of 700 artworks from Latin America is located on campus and provides an excellent first hand resource.
Explore our Latin American research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/law:
Our global outlook will help you tackle cross-cultural perspectives of law and justice around the world.
You'll gain hands-on experience in our Law Clinics, advising real clients and acquiring practical skills in various areas, including copyright and trademark law, international environmental law, law and literature, and human rights.
At Essex, championing justice is at the core of what we do.
We don't just talk about it – we dive right in.
Here, you'll master the art of dissecting and applying the law in real-world scenarios.
Picture yourself in mooting (mock trials), client interviewing, and negotiating competitions, where you'll not only hone your skills but also prepare for the challenges of the legal field.
You have the chance to gain work experience in a legal setting advising real clients on real cases in our Law Clinic .
Plus, we offer networking opportunities throughout the year with visiting law firms.
Now, let's talk about your future head-start.
In your third year, dive into the industry with our work-based learning module.
Picture yourself at a law firm or a local council, gaining invaluable experience.
Sure, spots are coveted, but armed with the skills from our Law Clinic , you're set to shine.
Ready to make your mark in the legal world?
Essex is where justice meets opportunity.
You can also gain a further head-start in the industry and choose our work-based learning module at a law firm or a local council in your third year.
Places are in high demand, so you'll need to demonstrate your aptitude to firms, but you’ll be well placed to do so with experience from our Law Clinic.
Law affects every part of our life from what we can post on social media and the complexities of buying a house, to international commerce and the protection of human rights.
The legal sector is vast, and evolving at a rapid pace as it must also respond to the challenges we face as a society.
Therefore, employers across a range of sectors will value law graduates who can show adaptability, resilience, and have a critical knowledge and understanding of the law in different contexts.
Explore the career opportunities Essex Law School can provide.
At Essex, we specialise in commercial law and human rights law.
We have extensive experience of research and practice in the field and many of our academics also work in advisory roles with the UK government, foreign governments and the UN, such as Professor Ahmed Shaheed, a UN Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief or Professor Lorna McGregor who has been working in partnership with the UN Human Rights Office to explore the impact of the use of digital technologies on human rights at borders .
We bring our expertise to our teaching to give you a truly industry-informed student experience.
Our expertise covers everything from trade and maritime law, to business law and human rights law.
Meet our academics by reading their biographies.
Develop practical and professional legal skills in a range of areas such as mooting, advocacy, client-interviewing, mediation, and negotiation.
Plus gain hands-on experience in our Law Clinics , advising real clients.
Law graduate Chad Blackman has been made Barbados' Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations and Other International Organisations in Geneva.
Ambassador Blackman graduated with an LLB in Law and an LLM in International Trade Law and has since forged an impressive career.
Within Essex Law School, we have over 100 academic staff who are open to supervise a range of research areas.
Our research examines the meaning of justice in the UK and beyond.
Our staff work with governments, human rights organisations and businesses across the world.
Your supervisors support you with a perspective that is global, comparative and grounded in practical experience.
We specialise in commercial and human rights law.
To learn more about us and find a supervisor read our biographies and then use our research finder below.
We offer three different options for research study:
Explore our Law research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/liberal-arts:
Liberal Arts is for you if you love studying a variety of
 subjects, and want to maintain this breadth of knowledge at university.
The
 flexible structure of this course allows you to choose a range of optional
 modules across literature, film, philosophy, history of art, history,
 linguistics, politics, sociology and modern languages.
At Essex, the Liberal Arts program integrates insights from various disciplines to uncover fresh knowledge and deepen our comprehension of the world.
Throughout your degree, you'll be encouraged to embrace a broad mindset, refining your critical awareness and equipping yourself with the tools needed to make a positive impact on the world.
You take modules which cover the historical foundations of the humanities, challenge dominant worldviews, and explore innovative and subversive essays and manifestos.
Based within our School of Philosophical, Historical and Interdisciplinary Studies , the choice is yours: you choose your modules based on your own background and interests.
You engage with unusual, controversial, and provocative ideas, so that you can use the humanities and social sciences to become critically aware and possess the tools to change the world for the better.
Studying Liberal Arts at Essex means our students become versatile, highly-sought and intellectually imaginative graduates due to our wide range of optional modules.
The great thing about liberal arts is that as you progress through your studies, you'll discover what truly interests you.
And the beauty of a humanities-based degree?
Your opportunities to apply your skills in various industries knows no limits.
You'll have access to loads of exciting opportunities and ongoing advice and guidance in helping you carve out a future that aligns with your developing interests.
Explore the career opportunities Liberal Arts can provide.
Interdisciplinary study was a founding principle of Essex.
It is built into the very fabric of our campus.
Our famous University squares are designed to encourage knowledge transfer and collaboration.
We're sharing new ideas and challenging the status quo from an interdisciplinary perspective - rounding on our expertise in history, literature, politics, law and human rights, sociology, art history and philosophy.
Studying Liberal Arts as a postgraduate means you can approach issues of global importance, such as environmental sustainability, indigenous rights, digital worlds and more, with support and insight from a wide variety of subject areas.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/linguistics:
You understand language as more than simply a means of communication.
You appreciate how a society is shaped by the language of its people.
At Essex we will help you explore not only how language is acquired, but also how it is used in contexts such as the media, the marketplace, courtrooms and conversations.
From catching up over a coffee to settling global debates, language is one of humanity’s most powerful tools – we will help you understand it.
Discover what it's like to study linguistics at the University of Essex.
Through language we transmit knowledge and communicate with society, from inviting someone for a coffee to settling global political disputes, language is vital.
We are one of the largest  language and linguistics departments in the UK, a place where talented students become part of an academic community that undertakes world-leading research.
All of our linguistics courses offer expertise and insight, and learn analytical and practical skills that will serve you well throughout life.
We provide an active and stimulating environment to carry out your doctoral research and offer six routes to a research degree.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/literature:
Our global outlook will encourage you to develop a
 cross-cultural understanding of literature around the world and throughout the
 ages.
From Shakespeare to contemporary, you’ll gain a wide range of experience
 in critical and analytical thinking with our modules in Literature.
Immerse yourself in the rich tapestry of literature at Essex - exploring diverse genres such as Arthurian legends, writings from Europe, the US, and the Caribbean, Shakespearean plays, Romantic poetry, science fiction, and beyond.
Hone your critical analysis and artistic expression skills as you delve into literature from around the world.
At Essex, we embrace radical, challenging, and interdisciplinary approaches to the study of literature, breaking free from conventions rather than adhering to them.
Within our Department, you have the opportunity to delve into modules that explore diverse genres such as travel writing, podcasts, autobiography, and more.
You'll engage with different media, including books, newspapers, plays, and film, across e a range of topics, from the English Civil War to dystopian literature and film, examining not only significant historical, political, and social events but also the alternative worlds that literature has imaginatively crafted.
Additionally, all our undergraduate programs offer the flexibility of studying abroad for a term or a full year, providing you with a global perspective on literature and enhancing your educational experience.
With a degree in Literature, you will gain key skills such as research, analysing written texts, communication and teamwork that are highly transferable and make you very attractive to various employers.
Our graduates go on to find jobs in the following sectors and beyond:
Literature graduate Sian has a busy career as an Editor.
"I usually write around 25 pages per monthly magazine, and there’s plenty of work to delegate to the Deputy Editor and Content Writer, including blogs to upload on the latest trends.
I direct feature meetings, and I have many managerial meetings to attend, photoshoots to direct at our studio, meetings with PRs in London, and new vegan menus to try.
"
Take your study of literature to the next level with our MA programs.
We don't just offer the study of Literature, but the study of world Literature.
You explore literature across time, geography, and genre, combining scholarly research with innovative, practical ways of engaging with texts.
Your research and reading will take you across the globe; from African American literature, through Caribbean literatures, to the literature and performance of New York, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, Moscow and London.
Our Department of Literature, Film, and Theatre Studies provides PhD supervision in Literature across various fields aligned with the research specialist areas of our faculty.
This encompasses a diverse range of expertise in different literatures and approaches, spanning from early modern to contemporary writing in English and various other languages.
The department excels in research areas such as Early Modern literature, Romanticism, eighteenth- and nineteenth-century literature, US and Caribbean literature, postcolonial literature, modern, postmodern, and contemporary literature (twentieth- and twenty-first century), eco-criticism and nature writing, black and black diaspora writing, travel writing, First World War writing, literature and human rights, science fiction, and the post-human.
Our research strengths extend to producing successful graduates who have embarked on thriving careers as writers.
Past students have also achieved recognition as scholars, university lecturers, teachers, publishers, publishers' editors, journalists, arts administrators, theatre artistic directors, drama advisers, and translators.
We also offer MPhil and Masters by dissertation programs in this field.
Start your application with us
Explore our literature research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/marine-biology:
Go beneath the surface on incredible field trips, analyse data and samples in our laboratories, and explore the local coastline that Essex has to offer.
With climate change affecting our oceans at an unprecedented rate, there has never been a more important time to study marine biology.
At the University of Essex, we take pride in being ranked 7th for biology (non-specific) for overall positivity (National Student Survey 2024, English broad-discipline higher education institutions).
You'll join a community of renowned academic experts, dedicated to researching marine environments and driving significant change.
Dr Michelle Taylor, whose recent research expedition to the Galapagos Islands exemplifies the global reach of our academic pursuits; and our team of Marine experts working with leading research organisations such as Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (Cefas).
You'll have access to facilities such as our on-site aquarium and the Marine Biology Field Centre, providing an ideal setting for your research projects.
As part of your studies you'll have incredible opportunities for field trips, both within the UK and abroad.
Journey to locations like Scotland, Greece, and Indonesia (subject to additional costs), where, in the heart of the Coral Triangle, you will gain hands-on experience in diving and contribute to unique underwater research surveys.
Your academic journey at Essex is not just a study; it's an adventure into marine research.
Within the School of Life Sciences , our Marine Biology and related courses offer not only academic excellence but also exceptional career guidance and training.
We are committed to providing you with the best opportunities as you embark on your journey post-graduation.
Our esteemed alumni have gone on to contribute their expertise to some of the world's leading companies, including: New Earth Solutions, Engine Group Cromwell Council, DEFRA, Operation Wallacea, BBC,  Thames Water,  Hive Ventures and many more.
The interaction between people and the planet, our oceans and marine life is an increasingly complex issue, and the question of how to manage our environment presents a global challenge.
One that our Postgraduate Students are determined to solve.
Our curriculum constantly adapts to the latest findings in the field, exploring topics like tropical marine oceans, coral reefs, seagrass beds, and mangrove systems.
You'll delve into the roles of photosynthetic producers and heterotrophic consumers, understanding ecological processes in tropical marine ecosystems.
Additionally, you'll study a career-focused module hones discipline-specific skills, fostering critical analysis, integration, and communication in multidisciplinary research environments.
We offer two standard 1 year courses at Postgraduate Taught level
In addition to this, if you are interested in progressing to PhD level, we also provide a four- or seven-year Integrated PhD in Tropical Marine Biology, in which your first year will be studying at Masters-level, followed by a full- or part-time PhD - giving you a direct route into PhD research study and education.
Starting your doctoral journey in marine biology represents a profound commitment to unravelling the mysteries of the world beneath the waves and offers a unique opportunity for you to delve into the intricate ecosystems and diverse life forms that inhabit our oceans.
You'll use cutting-edge technologies, combined with your passion for conservation exploring disciplines ranging from marine ecology and physiology to molecular biology.
You'll work, study and research alongside our University experts who are conducting research around the globe to create sustainable future for our planet's vast and vital marine environments.
Explore our Marine Biology research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/marketing:
Marketing is continually evolving as new technology is introduced.
At Essex Business School , where our marketing degrees are taught, we encourage you to be creative and analytical so you can tackle business challenges in fast-paced, digitally connected and global marketplaces.
You’re taught by internationally renowned academics and practitioners, whose work confronts real-world marketing issues.
We encourage you to be creative and analytical, to be bold and question assumptions.
Whether you want to work in a marketing department or creative agency, run your own business or progress to postgraduate study, studying marketing at Essex provides a firm foundation for your future.
Our Colchester Campus features the brand new Students’ Union Creative Studios in the Silberrad Student Centre.
As well as including bookable TV and radio studios, this creative hub mimics the environment found in top marketing and design agencies, complete with a suite of state-of-the-art Apple and Adobe products.
Training workshops and tutorials are available to help you create professional content and promotional material.
Professional accreditation from CIM gives you the opportunity to get a head start on your career.
Essex Business School hosts the annual Successful Futures Conference at the Colchester campus where all Essex Business School students from both campuses are invited to attend.
Employers from local and city companies attend and host sessions about a high profile theme, a recent theme being Artificial Intelligence (AI).
This is an invaluable opportunity open to all Essex students to attend and start thinking about your future careers and the paths they may take.
Our academics use research in their teaching to ensure you’re up-to-date with current industry trends so you can graduate with the skills and knowledge to define marketing strategies that make an impact.
20th in UK for research power in business and management (Research Excellence Framework 2021)
A placement or study abroad year is available with the majority of our courses.
Lauren Finbow undertook her placement year with Marks and Spencer on their buying scheme.
At Essex, we develop your creative, strategic and analytical skills to accelerate your career in international marketing.
You learn how to develop marketing plans and examine technical, cultural and political aspects of marketing and brand management.
We prepare you for a career in international marketing by combining a community of academics, practitioners and students from around the world, enabling you to experience diverse cultures and ways of working.
You learn from academics at the leading edge of research into the marketing challenges affecting businesses today, making your postgraduate education not only academically rigorous but highly relevant to the world you'll graduate into.
Discover which of our Masters in marketing, each accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), is right for you.
In this article, we ask the the marketing Masters course leaders what makes each of our marketing Masters degrees unique.
Modern marketers face changing consumer needs, technological advances and tightening regulation.
Could your research help them tackle these challenges with a sustainable approach?
At Essex, you can join the next generation of researchers shaping theory, policy and practice in the fields of marketing and management.
By studying for your PhD with us, you not only further your understanding of contemporary marketing and management issues, you make lasting contributions to the field.
Our PhD Management Studies attracts a diverse range of students exploring issues across marketing and management.
In particular, we supervise in marketing areas such as brand management, sustainable marketing, digital and data driven marketing, strategic communications, consumer behaviour and luxury branding, amongst others.
At Essex Business School, you are supervised by world-leading academics.
Whoever you are supervised by, you experience a supportive research environment, where you develop your professional skills and research expertise to make a lasting impact in the fields of marketing and management.
Sign-up to learn more about this subject, as well as accommodation, societies, careers support, facilities and more.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/mathematics:
Mathematics actively addresses real-world challenges daily.
Whether it's shaping government policies, contributing to advancements in medical research, or untangling logistics dilemmas, studying Mathematics at Essex opens doors to diverse and captivating career opportunities.
We are at the forefront of innovation in mathematics and data science.
At Essex we actively integrate these disciplines into our daily lives and the broader world through a variety of exciting projects.
Here’s what sets us apart:
Cutting-edge projects
Real-world impact
Collaborative environment
Be part of our community and help push the boundaries of what mathematics and data science can achieve.
Shape a future where these disciplines play a vital role in understanding and improving the world around us.
From engineering to healthcare, and finance to marketing, your mathematics degree can lead to exciting careers in unexpected fields.
Find out more about careers, skills and employability with Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science
Unlock the power of independent thought and apply advanced mathematical concepts to real-world challenges by pursuing a postgraduate course in mathematics at Essex.
While you may already possess the skills to integrate complex functions and solve ordinary differential equations, we empower you to elevate your thinking.
Delivered by active researchers in applied mathematics, pure mathematics, applied statistics, applied probability, and operational research, our postgraduate courses offer a diverse range of topics.
Our passionate lecturers, who are experts in innovative teaching methods, ensure that learning complex mathematical concepts becomes an enjoyable and rewarding experience.
Join us in shaping your mathematical journey and gaining the tools to make a real-world impact
Embark on a journey of exploration and discovery in the mix of mathematics research at Essex.
Our commitment is rooted in unravelling the complexities of abstract mathematical questions and applying robust tools and ideas to address real-world challenges.
Within our vibrant community, we offer a dynamic and stimulating environment tailored for doctoral research in mathematics.
Our team of expert researchers is at the forefront of ground-breaking exploration, covering a diverse spectrum of pure and applied mathematical domains.
From algorithms to analysis, algebra to animal behaviour, combinatorics to differential equations, geometry, and mathematical physics - our research spans an expansive landscape.
Join us in shaping the future of mathematical inquiry and its practical applications.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/mba:
We are Essex, an AMBA accredited business school.
Studying at Essex Business School provides you the opportunity to build-up a truly global network whilst studying alongside your peers.
The Essex MBA is accredited by the Association of MBAs ( AMBA ) placing us within the top 2% of business schools in the world, and we have an excellent record of success.
Our MBAs go on to achieve their professional objectives, start their own businesses and make positive impacts on their future.
The Essex MBA has been designed to give you the tools to advance your career.
Our unique carbon neutral building offers a serene backdrop to your time spent with us.
Located an hour away from London, you can study in a timeframe that suits you, whether that be full-time or part-time.
We recognise that potential MBAs come from all walks of life and from differing professional backgrounds.
Whatever your experience and whatever your goals, we are here to support your professional growth.
Join our world-class MBA programme.
If you think you are ready to apply to the Essex MBA to upgrade your professional toolkit, make sure you read our advice and guidance on how to make a successful application and impress in your MBA interview.
Whatever your experience, find out how the Essex MBA can accelerate your career.
Download the MBA prospectus and register your interest in our MBA programme.
The Essex MBA Director, Dr James Fowler teaches management and business strategy at Essex Business School.
Alba Sarmiento graduated from The Essex MBA in 2018.
Since then, she has been promoted to President of Omni Metal Finishing and credits her MBA experience for building her professional confidence.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/modern-languages:
Open the door to a rich and diverse exploration of global cultures, language and communication.
Go beyond linguistic mastery, delve into the heart of societies, literature, history, and contemporary issues.
Equip yourself with the tools to navigate the complexities of cross-cultural communication and stand out from your peers in the ever competitive global business market.
Whether you choose to specialise in French, Spanish, German, Italian, Portuguese, or Mandarin Chinese our courses will help you excel.
Develop critical thinking, adaptability, and a nuanced appreciation for diversity.
Language learners not only become proficient speakers but also gain insights into the traditions, perspectives, and expressions that shape a community.
This global perspective is invaluable in an increasingly interconnected world, preparing students for careers in diplomacy, international business, translation, education, and more.
Our 4-year courses offer a year abroad, where you can study at partner universities or work as a language assistant, showcasing your skills to future employers giving you invaluable insights into the language and customs of the languages you study.
Teaching, journalism, copy writing, translating, interpreting, marketing and public relations; these are just a few of the diverse career paths that a degree from the Department of Language and Linguistics could lead to.
Find out more about the range of different career options and the employability support you will gain when studying a Modern Languages degree with us.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/nursing:
Join the next generation of healthcare professionals, equipped with the skills to create meaningful impact.
Nursing is about more than just caring.
Top-notch nursing is about treating the whole person, asking difficult questions and about driving healthcare knowledge forward.
As an Essex student, whether you choose mental health nursing or adult nursing , you’ll join a group of people who share the same drive to progress the field of nursing and you’ll be respected and supported as a professional from day one.
We offer a variety of routes into nursing -  we have traditional BSc programmes, our MSci Nursing (dual award of Adult and Mental Health), as well as apprenticeship routes also.
We’re proud of our relationships with our local healthcare partners.
Put simply, it means we’re confident you’re going to love nursing with us as our courses are underpinned with cutting edge insights into healthcare delivery today.
And by the time you’re ready to graduate, you’ll possess essential values such as compassion and resilience.
Check out our facilities , and find out more about the School of Health and Social Care here.
Learn alongside top practitioners on one of our degree apprenticeships in health and social care
We offer world-class supervision and training opportunities, and encourage you to engage with other researchers, professionals, practitioners and research users, where possible.
Check out our facilities , and find out more about the School of Health and Social Care here.
Read more about our portfolio of courses , as well as hints and tips on making your application .
Discover cutting edge research from the University of Essex.
Browse our site to find relevant publications, projects, groups, centres, postgraduate opportunities for research supervision and wider areas of interest.
Simply search our site to find information relating to your subject.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/occupational-therapy:
Our courses provide the knowledge to empower people to meaningfully engage in activities that improve their lives and overcome significant challenges.
In a nutshell, occupational therapy is about therapeutically enabling  people with physical, mental, social and occupational challenges to do everyday activities and to lead fulfilling lives.
There’s no one-size-fits-all definition of what this can entail though, and that’s part of what makes it such a satisfying career.
You could work in a diverse range of settings including: hospitals, clinics, prisons, hospices, care farms, supported accommodation, charitable organisations, government departments, schools… and the list goes on.
Here at Essex, you’ll learn about the relationship between occupational engagement and health and well-being.
This will inform how occupation can be used therapeutically to enable people to lead full and satisfying lives.
We offer BSc Occupational Therapy as a three-year course, or as an apprenticeship (for those in employment within a relevant role and with support from their employer).
For those who have already studied at undergraduate level, we also offer MSc Occupational Therapy which is also a pre-registration course.
Head of Division for Occupational Therapy
Chat to Selena about our Occupational Therapy courses
Want to know more about BSc Occupational Therapy through someone who has experience studying at the University of Essex?
Speak to a 2nd year student below.
How do I apply?
How do I write a personal statement?
What happens after submitting my application?
Whatever your question, we're here for every stage of your journey.
Occupational therapy is about doing the extraordinary to support people with physical, mental, social and occupational challenges to do the ordinary.
It’s about working with patients to assess their individual and environmental abilities and problems in relation to their daily life, and planning solutions with them.
Our pre-registration occupational therapy course is highly sought after.
You'll develop the knowledge, skills and personal qualities to work with people of all ages, enabling them to engage in occupations to promote their health and wellbeing.
Focusing on inter-professional learning, you’ll be encouraged to learn with, and from, other professionals.
In just two years, you’ll be eligible to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT) as a qualified Occupational Therapist.
Head of Division of Occupational Therapy
Our learning opportunities are flexible and can be tailored to meet your professional development needs.
Take a look through our portfolio of courses below to find out what we have to offer.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/oral-health-sciences:
Whether you are an aspiring dental hygienist, or looking to progress to becoming a dental therapist, we have a course for you.
Here at Essex, you'll learn not only the practical skills required for practise, but also the critical skills to take a holistic approach to patient care.
We have two undergraduate courses on offer:
For Oral Health Science enquiries:
E hhsohlth@essex.ac.uk
T +44 (0)1702 328359
Oral health is evolving at an exciting pace.
Be at the forefront of the change.
Under the proposed new dental contract, dental practices that can evidence enhanced skills in advanced care are likely to be commissioned to provide specialised services such as periodontology.
Whether you’re a Dentist or a Hygienist/Dental Therapist looking to top up your skills set, we have a course to suit you.
Check out our facilities , and find out more about the School of Health and Social Care .
For Oral Health Science telephone queries, please contact:
Telephone: 01702 328359
"We've had lots of firsts in oral health sciences at Essex, and I think that's what I'm most proud of...
Students learning how to use a Waterlase
Students using a Waterlase to clean teeth
The skills lab at the Academic Dental Clinic is equipped with phantom heads so you can practise your skills
Treatment room in the Academic Dental Clinic
Decontamination room at the Academic Dental Clinic
Students in a seminar at the Academic Dental Clinic

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/philosophy:
At Essex, philosophy has never been boxed in by the usual
 reading lists or disciplinary boundaries.
We've never been afraid to read the
 books or think the thoughts that others dismiss.
Philosophy at Essex is critical, existential, real and unique.
Philosophers at Essex use the tools of philosophy and the study of its history to engage with the most pressing issues of our time: climate change, capitalism & inequality, gender & justice, and the epidemic of mental illness.
As the UK’s leading centre for Critical Theory, we use multi-disciplinary analysis to ask hard questions about power and ideology in the contemporary world.
Our courses tackle the hard questions about Death, God and the Meaning of Life.
Plato thought that the ultimate concern of philosophy was with a world of abstract ideas.
We love Plato, and we love ideas, but at Essex philosophy begins and ends in the real world.
Our academics are making real-world changes, such as Professor Wayne Martin’s recommendations on Do Not Attempt CPR usage in care homes .
We offer the only BA in Continental Philosophy in the entire UK.
Find out what it is, and why you should study it at Essex.
Studying Philosophy at Essex can provide you with:
Philosophy graduates are well-suited to a wide range of occupations, including law, PR, journalism and the media, the Civil Service, charity work, banking, and the NHS.
Explore the career opportunities Philosophy can provide.
At Essex we are world-renowned for our combination of Continental and Anglo-American philosophy.
We study real-world problems, both political and existential, to gain a critical perspective on the personal, political, and socio-economic challenges we face today.
Join our tight-knit school that is praised for its collaborative and supportive ethos and teaching environment.
Philosophy at Essex offers a unique environment for PhD study.
We have two major funded research projects: The Ethics of Powerlessness and The Essex Autonomy Project.
That's not all though.
We have expertise in all sorts of philosophical themes and many of our academics are open to supervision.
Use our research finder to find a topic and a supervisor to suit you, or find out more about our School of Philosophy and Art History .
Explore our Philosophy research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/physiotherapy:
Train in this a dynamic healthcare profession focused on enhancing and enriching individuals' quality of life by optimising their physical function and movement.
Through specialised techniques and exercises, physiotherapists address a wide range of conditions, promoting overall well-being and recovery.
Physiotherapy is a science-based health care profession committed to extending, applying, evaluating and reviewing the evidence that underpins and informs its practice.
Physiotherapists adopt a ‘whole person’ approach to maximise the potential of a person’s function and movement.
They not only help people stay independent for as long possible after illness or injury, but also help maintain health for people of all ages; preventing disease and managing pain.
Practice-based learning is an integral part of our BSc Physiotherapy course, with over 1,000 hours spent gaining hands-on experience, including on clinical practice placements.
You will gain experience working with professional physiotherapists across a wide range of practice settings and specialties, including: primary and secondary care; public and private sectors; paediatric, adult and older people; acute care and specialist services, such as mental health or learning disabilities.
Once you’ve graduated from Essex, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council as a physiotherapist which will enable you to work in a wide variety of clinical settings in the UK, and to join the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy.
Physiotherapists have a broad range of career opportunities which allow professionals to specialise in many different areas, including across hospitals, within clinics or community settings as well as in sporting environments or the armed forces.
Trained physiotherapists are in high demand in the NHS.
Other examples of where you can take your skills including working as part of a rehabilitation team within the Ministry of Defence or joining a private physiotherapy practice.
Successful completion of our BSc Physiotherapy degree leads to eligibility to apply for registration as a physiotherapist with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) which allows you to practise as a physiotherapist in the UK, and to join the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP) as a full member.
We offer Higher and Degree Apprenticeships in physiotherapy.
By studying with us you will be able to recognise, develop and lead through an enhanced understanding of yourself and others.
Physiotherapists have a broad range of career opportunities which allow professionals to specialise in areas such as working in a sporting team and helping athletes to reach their full potential, hospital or community practice, occupational rehab, or treatment in the private sector.
At Essex, we offer a unique approach to studying physiotherapy with innovative teaching and assessment.
Our full-time MSc Physiotherapy (Pre-Registration) course is studied over two years and is designed as a continuous progression of integrated theory and practice, placing emphasis on students being proactive partners in their learning experiences.
Our teaching staff include clinically qualified lecturers in physiotherapy, alongside clinically qualified members of other health professions from the School of Health and Social Care, and many clinical partners.
Postgraduate study will open doors to development and research into ground-breaking services, expanding the influence and possibilities of physiotherapy across the sector.
Our postgraduate courses will develop your approaches to promote, maintain and restore physical, psychological and social wellbeing, by adopting a patient-centred scientific approach.
Besides our MSc Physiotherapy (Pre-Registration) degree, we also offer CPD pathways which enable experienced clinicians in musculoskeletal fields to advance their practice.
Our CPD pathways allow you to study flexibly.
The structure, mode of delivery and level of support allow you to progress towards a qualification at postgraduate certificate, postgraduate diploma or MSc level.
Are you a clinician in the musculoskeletal field who wants to advance their practice?
Do you want to access musculoskeletal ultrasound imaging?
Our CPD pathways allow you to do just that!
Within our multidisciplinary School of Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences , we offer research supervision in physiotherapy and musculoskeletal practice, as well as related areas.
As a research student at Essex, you’ll work at the heart of our internationally acknowledged and well-connected research community.
Our School of Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences offers an environment with an excellent reputation for research and teaching.
A unique feature of our School is that many of our staff work with local National Health Service (NHS) Trusts and other local health agencies, which enhances our grasp of the contemporary links between academic research, the major issues of the day and practice.
Undertaking a PhD will train you as an independent researcher who can critically assess other research work, and have a comprehensive knowledge of at least one specialist area.
The support provided by your Essex supervisor is a key feature of your student experience and you will have regular one-to-one meetings to discuss progress on your research.
Explore our Physiotherapy research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/politics:
Want to understand political strategy and power dynamics?
A politics degree will develop your critical thinking, analytical, and communication skills, preparing you to tackle real-world political challenges.
Get the qualifications you need to influence the political landscape.
There are three types of politics degree you can choose from.
Develop an expert understanding of political science.
A masters degree in politics will provide you with advanced analytical abilities, sophisticated research skills, and the political awareness to address pressing global challenges.
Acquire the capabilities you need to make lasting political change.
There are five types of politics masters degree you can choose from.
The Department of Government is a powerhouse in the study of political science.
Our students have published in prestigious political science journals such as Electoral Studies, International Organization, International Studies Quarterly, Journal of Politics, Journal of Conflict Resolution, Journal of Education Policy and Journal of Peace Research.
PhD Government PhP (doctoral programme)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/psychology:
Explore the complexities of human behaviour in our rapidly changing world.
Delving into cognition, emotion, and social interactions, our Psychology degrees provide valuable insight into understanding individuals, fostering empathy, and facilitating personal growth amid new technologies and cultural challenges.
If you want to understand our place in the world, then psychology at Essex is for you.
We focus on the big questions so that you embark on a journey into the thoughts, feelings, and actions of individuals.
At Essex we take a multi-method approach, working beyond traditional boundaries to combine different expertise and share fascinating techniques and intriguing theories.
We teach you psychological findings by looking at “how we think about the world”, “how we interact with the world”, and “how we experience the world”.
As an undergraduate student, you can gain authentic research experience by participating in our Research Experience Scheme (RES) .
Throughout your RES placement, you'll acquire skills essential to researchers across various fields of psychology.
This includes tasks such as setting up and designing experiments, conducting literature reviews, recruiting and testing participants, and engaging in coding and data analysis.
A psychology degree, especially one accredited by the British Psychology Society, will provide you with the foundations needed for specialising in diverse areas, including clinical and educational psychology.
Many of our psychology graduates choose careers outside traditional psychology fields.
The skills you learn during your degree opens doors to careers in market research, human resources, and people-focussed careers such as a high-intensity therapist or special educational needs.
Our psychology graduates have progressed in diverse careers across the public, private and third sectors, including working for the Tavistock and Portman NHS Trust, and Prison and Probation Service, mental health charity MIND, and organisations like the BBC.
Visit our psychology careers page to find out more about your career opportunities and discover the variety of career paths our recent graduates have taken.
We also work with our University's careers services to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
We provide a stimulating and vibrant research environment that allows both our students and staff to shape the future of our expanding research-intensive department.
Further study in our Department of Psychology gives you the freedom and the facilities to study, experiment, explore and research why we think, feel and act the way we do.
At Essex, we pride ourselves on providing a research-led education with award-winning lecturers who are also world leaders in their research fields.
As well as your research project, you can work alongside researchers through our Research Experience Scheme (RES).
During a RES placement, you can gain experience developing all kinds of skills used by researchers from all areas of psychology, including experiment set-up and design, literature reviews, recruiting and testing participants, coding and data analysis.
Embarking on a PhD in psychology promises an intellectually enriching journey, guided by distinguished experts in diverse range of expertise.
.
Our experts carry our research that helps use understand how we think about, interact with and experience the world.
Dr.
Eva Gutierrez-Sigut's research during the COVID-19 pandemic uncovered that 90% of deaf individuals struggled to communicate with mandatory mask-wearing , bridging psychology and public health.
Elia Valentini's cutting-edge study explores the neurobiology of pain , discovering that found fast-oscillating brain waves linked to brief pain and touch can differ widely in scans.
Find a supervisor that can support your study and let your research guide you to explore some of life great challenges.
Explore our psychology research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.
More information can be found about research degrees on our department pages.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/psychology-applied-and-clinical:
Impatient to facilitate positive change?
Join us at our Colchester campus to study at one of two levels.
We offer our Graduate Certificate which is relevant for those without an undergraduate degree, and our Postgraduate Certificate for those that do.
You can also study a Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship which leads to a Graduate Certificate too.
Our courses will equip you to facilitate self-help processes to support those with common mental health problems, such as mild to moderate depression or anxiety.
To ensure you will be a well-rounded and confident practitioner, we use small group processes which allows us to personalise your learning,  We also work closely with our local IAPT compliant partners and service users to ensure our courses are responsive to the changing needs of society.
Find out more about our Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
or explore some of the other related courses we have on offer.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/psychosocial-and-psychoanalytic-studies:
You’re fascinated by people and relationships.
You want to explore the human psyche at its absolute core, the unconscious.
At Essex we will help you understand human behaviour at its most basic level, exploring why so many people have emotional problems, and how this impacts on wider society.
Most importantly though, we will arm you with the skills and confidence to positively impact people’s mental health in a variety of settings.
Want to make a difference?
Welcome to Essex.
Visit the Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies at the University of Essex.
Meet the experts and discover what it's like to study as an undergraduate in this fascinating Department.
How do unconscious factors affect our emotional and psychological lives, our relationships with others and society?
What is the relation between inner fantasy and external reality?
Our courses on psychoanalytic studies, Jungian and post-Jungian studies, organisational dynamics, refugee care and psychodynamic counselling are taught by senior clinicians and internationally renowned academic researchers.
Our Centre has an active group of PhD students and Post-Doctoral Fellows who, in addition to our academic staff, provide a stimulating and congenial environment.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/robotics:
Design, build, and program intelligent machines; gaining the hands-on experience in applications ranging from industrial automation to autonomous systems to help shape the future defined by technological excellence.
Essex boasts one of the largest robotics facilities in the country.
Our Robotics Laboratory, endowed with over £3M in investments and spanning 100m², houses 50+ robotic systems, providing an expansive and well-equipped space to commence your journey into building and programming intelligent systems.
Connect with leading robotics researchers, including Dr Vishuu Mohan , who collaborated with the renowned jam makers Wilkin & Sons of Tiptree on innovative strawberry-picking robots.
Explore the research opportunities with the Computer Science and Electronic Engineering Research Experience Scheme , where undergraduates can engage in projects within the School, gaining valuable research skills applicable to future careers.
Ranked among the Top 25 in the UK for Computer Science in THE World University Rankings by Subject 2025, Essex propels graduates into successful careers with some of our recent graduates securing jobs with prominent companies such as National Instruments, McLaren, Google, and Microsoft.
Our courses are designed to arm you with the knowledge and skills needed for this rapidly-changing and innovative industry.
Uniquely blending electrical engineering and computer science, the courses cover theoretical and practical aspects of navigation, motion control, sensory perception, autonomous decision-making, and machine learning.
Gain expertise in Java and C++ programming, sensors, motion control algorithms, high-level cognition in robotic systems, computer vision, digital signal processing, artificial intelligence, intelligent agents, computer science, data science, machine learning, natural language processing, and computer vision.
Benefit from the forefront research conducted in our School, providing you with a comprehensive grasp of the foundational aspects of this robotic engineering and the programming of intelligent systems.
Explore key areas, including:
Robotics demands a well-rounded understanding encompassing computer science, artificial intelligence, engineering, and neuroscience.
This interdisciplinary knowledge is crucial for crafting hardware capable of sensing and manipulating the real world.
Within this field, advancements have led to the development of diverse technologies, ranging from satellites and submarines to race cars and robots.
As a research student at Essex you will have access to a wide range of bespoke labs and research facilities which will enable you to undertake cutting-edge research across the exciting and innovative field of robotics.
Work with our expert academic staff and other research students to explore contemporary challenges and find solutions to some of the world's greatest modern technological problems.
Our degrees go beyond research, providing hands-on experience in project management, communication, and support for enhancing your numerical and data analysis skills.
These invaluable skills are essential for your future career, whether you're aspiring to pursue academia or transition into the private sector.
Explore our Robotics, Computer Science and Electronic Engineering research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/social-work:
Are you a catalyst for social change?
Become a Social Worker and empower people to
 live their best lives.
We’ll equip you
 to support vulnerable people and communities to find positive ways forward in
 the social justice and human rights challenges they face in everyday life.
In the School of Health and Social Care , our social work course does much more than ‘what it says on the tin’.
It's about driving positive change for children, adults and families, and making a difference in their lives.
You’ll be an integral part of our Social Work and Social Justice division which is underpinned by activism, internationalism and research.
We’re proud to be champions of social justice and progression.
If you’re hard working, adaptable, honest and, above all, passionate about finding long-term solutions and supporting positive changes for children, adults and families, then welcome home.
You'll be part of our learning community, where our students learn not only from our academics, but from each other, from practice placements and from our Service User Reference Group (SURG).
SURG is made up of service users, carers, and volunteers who kindly share their lived experience of health and social care.
Their input into the design of our curriculum as well as into our lectures and seminar sessions means you’ll benefit from a compassionate perspective as well as an enhanced ability to advocate.
Our BA and MA Social Work courses are accredited by Social Work England.
This means that successful completion of these courses leads to eligibility to register as a qualified Social Worker.
We have an excellent track record for employability: 98% of UK undergraduate full-time from the School of Health and Social Care are in highly skilled employment or further study (Graduate Outcomes 2023).
We’re confident you’ll have a choice of jobs at your fingertips on graduation.
Find out more about careers, employability and how our School will support you with your future career path .
Studying MA Social Work with us at Essex means you'll gain far more than just eligibility to register as a qualified Social Worker - you'll develop your knowledge and skillset to analyse intersecting injustices, and crucially, you'll have the toolkit to collaboratively build better futures for those you will work with.
Here at Essex, we pride ourselves on offering a postgraduate route into social work which is underpinned by interprofessional study, including with health and social care professionals such as hospital and forensic social workers, as well as human rights experts from Essex Law School .
We firmly believe that social work is a human rights profession, and it's important to take a global outlook when looking for examples of best practice.
This includes bringing practice experience into the classroom and to examine practice critically.
If you're looking for a rewarding, flexible career that is a practical application of human rights and social justice, this is the course for you.
Programme Lead
Chat to Caroline about our MA Social Work
The Social Work and Social Justice team is research active working both internationally and locally with charities, local authorities and on national funded grant projects.
You would be joining a lively interdisciplinary research community with social justice at its heart.
You would be a member of at least one of our four cross-school research groups.
We would encourage applications from practitioners and people with lived experience, welcoming the opportunity to discuss your ideas to support you to form your application form.
The wider university research community benefits from a range of interdisciplinary events where you can regularly meet other research students, learning and supporting each other.
These include films at our on-campus theatre, writing retreats and summer schools.
As a social work research student, you will have access to quality supervision and support
Explore our Social Work and Social Justice research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/sociology:
Founded in 1964, our Department of Sociology and Criminology rapidly became known for its sociological pioneers and new approaches.
We have played a major role in shaping the discipline ever since.
We fostered foundational research on gender, sexualities, deviance, sociological criminology, survey methods, social stratification and oral history.
We continue to lead in these fields today.
Embracing an interdisciplinary approach and our commitment to social justice, our courses focus on three main areas of Sociology:
Visit the Department of Sociology and Criminology to discover what life and study will be like as an undergraduate in this renowned Department.
Work alongside our world-class academics who have spearheaded the pursuit for a new understanding of the social world since the Department of Sociology and Criminology was founded in 1964.
Our spirit of critical enquiry drives us in the quest for academic excellence, exploring questions of social justice and equality.
We build on the traditions of sociological analysis, with a range of both qualitative and quantitative methods.
We explore the contributions of cultural history, criminology, social anthropology, social psychology, social philosophy, feminism, and global sociology.
We are 1st for research environment in sociology and 2 nd in UK for research power in sociology (Times Higher Education research power measure, Research Excellence Framework 2021).
Join our pioneering research community and have a meaningful impact on the future of sociology.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/speech-and-language-therapy:
Training to be a Speech and Language Therapist is all about giving people voice and maximising their independence – and includes more than just human communication.
It’s estimated that nearly 20% of the population experiences communication difficulties at some point in their lives.
That could be at any point from birth through to old age, and problems could range from voice disorders to selective mutism, to recovery from throat cancer.
But the work of a Speech and Language Therapist doesn’t stop there.
It also includes helping children and adults with feeding and swallowing issues too.
Here at Essex, we focus on a holistic approach which enables patients to maximise their independence in their social, academic and working lives.
We use a range of learning techniques to help you build your knowledge of a wide range of conditions and challenges.
Successful completion of our pre-registration BSc Speech and Language Therapy course or our Speech and Language Therapy Degree Apprenticeshi p means you’re eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and start your career as a Speech and Language Therapist.
For those who have already studied at undergraduate level, we also offer MSc Speech and Language Therapy which is also a pre-registration course.
Check out our facilities , and find out more about our School of Health and Social Care .
If you're thinking about applying for one of our courses, make sure you read through our helpful tips on what we're looking for in your personal statement, and how to prepare for an interview with us.
Impatient to make a real difference to the lives of people of all ages?
Our course is a two-year fast-track programme for graduates with a related degree (psychology; language and linguistics; social science; biological sciences; medical sciences or equivalent).
It is a client-focused programme which uses problem-based learning methods to integrate theory and clinical practice.
You will undertake day visits and blocks of practice education with speech and language therapists in the workplace.
If your thinking about applying for one of our courses, make sure you read through our helpful tips on what we're looking for in your personal statement, and how to prepare for an interview with us.
We want our on campus experiences to thoroughly prepare you for the wide range of hospital, community and third-sector settings that you may experience during placement or when you graduate.
Whether you choose to join us at our Southend campus or at our Colchester campus, you'll have access to our fantastic facilities
Thinking about postgraduate research at Essex?
We advertise studentships and funded opportunities throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/sport-and-exercise:
Fitness and health are both issues prevalent on the current public agenda, consequently society needs trained professionals to analyse the impact of lifestyle choices, as well as explore the science to help the body perform to its full potential.
What makes a good coach?
What is the secret behind the world’s fastest sprinter?
What role does psychology play in improving sports performance?
You will be able to explore these questions, as well as many more, and find answers to some of sport and exercise’s most important challenges.
We offer three main undergraduate courses in the subject of sport and exercise.
The sport, fitness, health and leisure sectors are booming and provide a variety of careers for sports and exercise graduates from across our range of courses.
Many of our BSc Sports and Exercise Science graduates have gone onto build successful careers in sectors such as healthcare, teaching, as well as the health and fitness industries.
If you want to follow a career in coaching children, adolescents or adults across all levels of abilities, then our BSc Sports Performance and Coaching is for you.
Our graduates now work in the fields of sports performance, sports management and sports development, health care, teaching, and the health and fitness industry.
Careers in sport and exercise psychology include being a counsellor, a psychologist for athletes and teams, and an exercise psychologist working with the public, developing exercise programmes and more.
Whichever course you pick, you will also develop your skills in numeracy, information technology, communication, and time management, which are important to all employers.
Sport and exercise science combines learning from biology, physiology, biomechanics, nutrition and psychology in a science-based course.
With sport playing such a huge role in society, opportunities at both recreational and elite sporting level will turn your passion for fitness and health into a career.
You will be able to make a difference to the lives of people of all ages.
Postgraduate study at Essex will allow you to work alongside internationally recognised academics by collaborating on research on campus, using amazing facilities such as our Human Performance Unit.
Some of our recent research includes working with performance dancers at the Royal Ballet School, investigating the healing power of drumming, looking at whether someone’s running personal best is down to genetics, and the benefits of exercise in social care.
Our multidisciplinary approach also means that you will be able to work in the field with external partners and other academic departments at the University.
If you study the course MSc Sport and Exercise Science you will have the opportunity to focus your learning and research on one of four topics and receive a ‘qualifier’ on your degree transcript when you graduate.
The specialist topics are: biomechanics, performance analysis, physiology, and sports nutrition.
This qualifier allows you to demonstrate to future employers that you have directed your studies towards this topic and have a wealth of knowledge in that ever-growing area of sport and exercise science.
Within our multidisciplinary School of Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences, we offer research supervision in all areas of sports and exercise sciences, including sport and exercise psychology, sports therapy, health and exercise sciences, physical activity, sport performance and coaching, and sport and exercise medicine.
As a research student at Essex, you’ll work at the heart of our strong learning environment which has an excellent reputation for research and teaching.
Our ultramodern facilities include a wide range of ergometers and treadmills, stand alone and portable gas analysers, force plates, isokinetic dynamometers, a Vicon motion capture system, electronic timing gates, full blood gas analysers, (including pulse and co-oximeters), and a variety of EMG systems.
Explore our Sports and Exercise Science research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/sports-therapy:
Sports therapists help sport and exercise participants prevent, recognise and manage injuries, empowering everyone to achieve their full sporting potential.
They respond immediately to injuries, can assess, treat and refer for specialist advice, give remedial sport massages and plan rehabilitation programmes.
As a sports therapy student at Essex, you will work as a supervised sports therapist on a placement.
You’ll gain real-life experience, which will be instrumental in developing your career, and will develop confidence in using the skills and knowledge that you’re taught in order to become an autonomous practitioner.
You will also have access to our professional, state-of-the-art research equipment in many of our research and teaching labs.
You will gain the specialist skills and knowledge required to work as a sports therapist.
Career opportunities for sports therapy graduates range from working in a sports injury clinic to working as a therapist for a sport clubs or on behalf of a sportsperson, both professional and amateur.
Our students become eligible to register as a professional sports therapist with the Society of Sports Therapists upon graduation.
Our BSc Sports Therapy course also prepares you for postgraduate study, which could be in a range of areas including sports science, other healthcare professions (including nursing and physiotherapy) or teaching (PGCE teaching qualification).
By studying at Essex for a postgraduate degree, you will gain the specialist skills and knowledge required to work as a strength and conditioning coach.
Our MSc Strength and Conditioning course provides you with the practical set of skills and theoretical knowledge needed to excel as a coach to physically develop athletes of all levels.
With research-informed teaching and an applied focus, this course is ideal for you if you aspire to work in sport or further develop the practice of individuals already in applied environments.
In our School of Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences , we offer research supervision in sports therapy and related areas.
You’ll work at the heart of our well-connected research community.
Research study will allow you to work alongside our internationally recognised academics by collaborating on campus, using facilities such as our Human Performance Unit and Sports Therapy Clinic .
Our multidisciplinary approach also means that you will be able to work in the field with external partners and other academic departments.
Our graduates go on to work with a wide spectrum of sporting populations from recreational athletes through to elite international performers in both clinical and management positions.
They work in a large number of areas including professional and semi sporting organisations, private practice, local trusts, hospitals and care organisations.
You will be able to make a difference to people lives.
Explore our Sports Therapy research by theme or your area of interest and find a supervisor that can support your through your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/subjects/translation-and-interpreting:
Translation and interpreting focuses not only on language and culture but also on specialised translation and interpreting skills, subtitling, and cultural mediation.
A degree in translation and interpreting provides you with essential language proficiency in multiple languages and a deep understanding of diverse cultures.
You will refine your communication, critical thinking, and time management skills, while also becoming proficient in translation and interpreting technology.
Graduates of degrees in this field can pursue diverse career paths, including freelance work, localisation, and roles in international organisations.
To become a translator or interpreter you must first be fluent in multiple languages.
Gaining a degree in translation and interpreting enables you to learn a language alongside training in conflict resolution, molding you into a versatile translator with the capability to interpret an array of written texts—ranging from medical and legal to business and technical documents.
This holistic approach equips you not only with linguistic prowess but also with the practical skills needed to excel in the dynamic field of translation.
Studying translation and interpreting not only offers career opportunities but also fosters cultural exchange and personal enrichment through engagement with different languages, cultures, and perspectives.
With our program you'll study two languages, choosing from F rench, German, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish.
You'll study your first language to mastery level and your second to proficiency.
We boast state-of-the-art facilities , featuring an interpreting lab, unique to the East of England, equipped with cutting-edge tools to nurture your expertise in conference interpreting.
Our Autonomous Learning Lab, provides a space for honing interpreting and subtitling skills, allowing you to independently utilise translation software.
Additionally, our simultaneous interpreting booths enable you to interpret live conferences and lectures, accommodating audiences of up to 350 people.
Companies and organisations in the UK and abroad are struggling to find university graduates who are fluent in at least one other language, in addition to English.
Being an Essex modern languages graduate places you in a very advantageous position.
You will be able to speak and write fluently, or to a very competent standard, in up to two languages.
Language skills are in scarce supply and can be used in almost any job.
Find out more about where your translating and interpreting degree could take you.
At Essex we focus on developing your practical ability to work between English and another language.
We are 1 st in UK for research impact in modern languages and linguistics (Grade Point Average, Research Excellence Framework 2021) , a place where talented students become part of an academic community that undertakes world-leading research.
Depending on the course you choose, we offer a range of languages for you to study including Arabic, French, German, Italian, Portuguese or Spanish.
Your PhD in Translation, Interpretation, and Subtitling will take you through the complexities of linguistic and cultural mediation.
Our program goes beyond language conversion, emphasising theoretical foundations and practical applications.
You'll specialise in subtitling, mastering the challenges of adapting content for global audiences while preserving cultural nuances.
Through rigorous research, you'll contribute to advancing translation studies, developing expertise for careers in academia, research, and the language services industry.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/courses/UG01349/1/BA-Global-Studies-with-Human-Rights:
How do individuals, communities and governments approach human rights differently across the globe?
How do these differences in human rights laws impact relationships between states?
How does globalisation affect international relations?
Our BA Global Studies with Human Rights course will deepen your knowledge of our increasingly interconnected world, whilst building expertise in human rights.
You will develop your confidence to advocate for individual and community rights, social justice, and social change.
The defence of human rights is one of the most profound challenges we face across the globe.
From asylum seekers, to prisoner welfare and political alignment – we teach you the principles and practices of human rights from a global perspective.
You will study topics including, but not limited to:
Based in our School of Philosophical, Historical and Interdisciplinary Studies , you will be taught by experts from a range of disciplines across the humanities and social sciences.
You will also be taught by academics from our Essex Law School .
At Essex we specialise in business law , public law , criminal justice , health law , law and technology , socio-legal studies and human rights law .
Your education extends beyond the university campus.
We support you in expanding your education through offering the opportunity to spend a year or a term studying abroad at one of our partner universities.
The four-year version of our degree allows you to spend the third year abroad or employed on a placement abroad, while otherwise remaining identical to the three-year course.
Studying abroad allows you to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised.
If you spend a full year abroad you'll only pay 15% of your usual tuition fee to Essex for that year.
You won't pay any tuition fees to your host university.
When you arrive at Essex, you can decide whether you would like to combine your course with a placement year.
You will be responsible for finding your placement, but with support and guidance provided by both your department and our Employability and Careers Centre.
If you complete a placement year you'll only pay 20% of your usual tuition fee to Essex for that year.
Our interdisciplinary studies staff teach in departments across the University, and specialise in a wide range of topics including history, law, literature, film, politics, and sociology.
We are a team of internationally recognised writers and lecturers with expertise across the arts, humanities and social sciences.
As well as being one of the UK's leading universities for social science, and the highest ranking institution for political science, our staff research topics that stretch across the globe – we are working on issues in Latin America, North America, the Middle East, Africa and Europe.
Our graduates are well-placed to address the complex issues which confront the modern world.
You can gain a diverse set of skills as well as a wide-ranging knowledge of the world's most current and significant problems.
Our course provides you with an excellent basis for going onto a career in media, education, politics, the Civil Service, international organisations such as the UN and NATO or non-governmental organisations, and many other fields.
Our  School of Philosophical, Historical and Interdisciplinary Studies recent graduates have gone on to work in a wide range of desirable roles including an events co-ordinator for Age UK, a business provision manager for BT, an accountant in London, and an account executive for Bluesky PR.
We also work with our Student Development Team to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Take a look at our dedicated careers pages for Law and Human Rights.
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English: IELTS 6.0 overall, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found here If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years.
The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our immigration webpages for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a pre-sessional English pathway that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email ugquery@essex.ac.uk .
Requirements for second and final year entry Different requirements apply for second and final year entry, and specified component grades are also required for applicants who require a visa to study in the UK.
Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found here Additional Notes If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course.
Find out more about opportunities available to you at the University of Essex International College
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a pre-sessional English pathway that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
Requirements for second and final year entry
Different requirements apply for second and final year entry, and specified component grades are also required for applicants who require a visa to study in the UK.
Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found here
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field.
The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us.
However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course.
A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules are the individual units of study for your course.
Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module.
For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in.
You can find this information from the module code .
For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The UK academic level of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
What are human rights?
How do we protect them?
And what challenges do we face when promoting human rights on an international level?
Discover the fundamental principles and practices, including topics related to international law and ethics, which underpin the protection and promotion of our human rights.
View Foundations of Human Rights on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
The world does not have disciplines; it has problems.
What's more, the most important problems we face - problems like climate change, migration, sustainable economic production, democratic governance, and so on - cannot be solved with the tools of any single discipline.
Such problems require collaborative, creative, and interdisciplinary approaches, and this module introduces students to this type of interdisciplinary thinking.
Students will learn how to approach complex problems by drawing on theories and methods from multiple disciplines, learning how to think flexibly and work with others to find creative solutions to real-world problems.
View Interdisciplinary Research and Problem-Solving: An Introduction on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
This interdisciplinary module explores the rich diversity of ways of knowing the world.
We examine different frameworks of knowing that have characterised and shaped human societies historically and today.
View Ways of Knowing on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
View Beyond the BA: Skills for the Next Step on our Module Directory
This module builds on the foundations laid in the first year and introduces students to the institutions that uphold and enforce international human rights standards, as well as the multidisciplinary nature of Human Rights and Social Justice.
View Human Rights, Regional Systems & Global Challenges on our Module Directory
How have contemporary societies been shaped by the legacies of the Enlightenment, colonialism, and the different phases of capitalism?
This interdisciplinary module helps you to critically understand some of the key forces and processes that have shaped the challenges we face in the 20th and 21st century.
It is divided into three broad themes; Empire, The Self, and Nature.
We’ll be examining processes of ‘othering’ that were intrinsic to colonialism; changing conceptions of the self; as well as both the causes of and potential solutions to the ecological crisis we are confronting today.
The module is co-taught by academics from Art History, ISC, LiFTs, Philosophy, Psychoanalytic Studies and Sociology.
This module has been designed to enable students to integrate their subject knowledge with an understanding of sustainable development, acquiring the skills and competencies essential for addressing the urgent sustainability challenges of the 21st century.
View The World in Question: The Social, Cultural, Political & Environmental Legacies of the Enlightenment on our Module Directory
Did you know that the not-for-profit sector is expanding fast in the UK, and offers meaningful jobs that can contribute to positive social change and ecological sustainability?
This module introduces you to this sector and the concept and practice of social entrepreneurship using case studies of initiatives that have helped local communities, disadvantaged people and the environment.
It also gives you the opportunity to develop your skills and use your creativity and imagination to design your own project or enterprise.
This module has been designed to enable students to integrate their subject knowledge with an understanding of sustainable development, acquiring the skills and competencies essential for addressing the urgent sustainability challenges of the 21st century.
View Social Entrepreneurs, Sustainability and Community Action on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: OPTIONAL
How important are human rights today?
What role do they play in contemporary society?
And can you analyse their impact on topics like freedom of expression or global justice?
Learn to identify and evaluate human rights issues in range of real-life situations, within a regional, national and international context.
View Selected Issues in Human Rights on our Module Directory
Access to water is one of the most urgent global challenges facing us today.
Vital for health and well-being, as well as integral to indigenous cultures and industrial processes, water is a threatened commons and contested commodity.
In this module, we will explore global and local case studies that highlight challenges of scarcity, contamination, privatization, and climate change, and the cultural importance of bodies of water for diverse communities.
We will examine water-related problems, such as economic and urban development, grassroots activism, political conflict, community relations, heritage and public health.
View Global Challenges in Interdisciplinary Perspective: Water Conflicts, Water Cultures on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: OPTIONAL
On a placement year you gain relevant work experience within an external business or organisation, giving you a competitive edge in the graduate job market and providing you with key contacts within the industry.
The rest of your course remains identical to the three-year degree.
On your year abroad, you have the opportunity to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised.
Taught through lectures plus seminars of about twenty students You take a one-hour lecture and a one-hour class for each of your modules every week
Assessed through a combination of written coursework and end-of-year examinations Other assessment methods will depend on your individual combination of subjects
£9,535 per year
£20,475 per year
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex.
We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer.
You have the chance to:
Check out our Visit Us pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events.
And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to book a campus tour here .
Once you’ve checked that we have the right course for you, applying couldn’t be simpler.
Fill in our quick and easy Clearing application form with as much detail as you can.
We’ll then take a look and get back to you with a decision.
We don’t interview all applicants during Clearing, however, we will only make offers for the following courses after a successful interview:
The interview allows our academics to find out more about you, and in turn you’ll be able to ask us any questions you might have.
Further details will be emailed to you if you are shortlisted for interview.
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem.
Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home.
Check out our Colchester virtual tour and Southend virtual tour to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date.
Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees.
Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding.
The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our programme specifications .
The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Want to quiz us about your course?
Got a question that just needs answering?
Get in touch with us on live chat!

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/courses/UG01049/1/LLB-Law-with-Human-Rights:
Engage in a discourse on human rights law, informed by thinking on rights from political, sociological, philosophical, economic and historical perspectives.
You are presented with the theoretical foundations, substantive knowledge, and evaluative tools for you to understand and respond to national, regional, and international legal and political developments.
Our LLB Law and Human Rights develops your critical awareness of the nature of law within its social, political, sociological, philosophical, economic and historical contexts.
At Essex we are actively engaged in debates about the meaning of justice in the UK and beyond.
Our Human Rights Centre is a recognised international leader.
Through our work with the United Nations, governments, human rights organisations and corporations all over the world, we bring a global outlook to our teaching.
As a law and human rights student, not only will you learn legal rules, but you will also consider the function of law in society, the philosophy of law, policy issues and law reform.
You study topics including:
Global distributive justice and human rights Protection of human rights in the UK Freedom of thought and expression European human rights law
We are ranked 49th for Law in THE World University Rankings by subject 2024, which is 9th in the UK, and we are 3rd in the UK for research power in law (THE research power measure, REF2021).
Our law course will develop your intellectual and critical faculties, encourage you to think independently and teach you to present rational, coherent and accurate arguments orally and in writing.
It will provide you with an excellent foundation for any career.
Studying abroad allows you to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised.
You won't pay any tuition fees to your host university
When you arrive at Essex, you can decide whether you would like to combine your course with a placement year .
You will be responsible for finding your placement, but with support and guidance provided by both your department and our Student Development Careers Services.
Our internationally diverse community of staff and students gives us a breadth of cross-cultural perspectives and insights into law and justice around the world.
This community, combined with opportunities to study abroad during your time with us, ensures you graduate with a genuine worldview and a network of international contacts.
Members of our Human Rights Centre work closely with our alumni and extensive practitioner network to ensure that our research is focused on priority issues that are of direct relevance to beneficiaries such as victims of human rights violations, governments, NGOs, and international organisations such as the UN.
Work on key human rights projects at our Human Rights Clinic Network at our student-run Law Society , Human Rights Society , and Bar Society Volunteer at the Essex Law Clinic where you can use your knowledge and skills to serve the community and help those most in need of legal services Participate in mooting competitions to develop your skills Test your mediation and negotiation skills in our Client Interviewing Competition Join our Model United Nations society, which can improve your skills of argumentation, oral presentation and research Peer mentors guide you through your first year Take advantage of networking opportunities throughout the year with visiting law firms
We also offer a range of opportunities for working with projects associated with our Human Rights Centre :
International Centre on Human Rights and Drug Policy Essex Autonomy Project Detention, Rights and Social Justice Programme
At Essex we don't just prepare you for the legal profession.
We stimulate your desire to pursue justice and equip you with the skills and knowledge to become an agent for change, whatever career path you choose.
From the start of your course, we challenge you to think deeply, broadly and strategically about career paths.
Over the first two years, alongside law subjects, you will take a career management module designed to help you identify personal strengths and goals, understand what employers (both within and outside law) are looking for and enhance your employability profile.
We also hold an annual law fair, attended by law firms and vocational qualification providers.
Our graduates pursue careers in the law and in a wide range of other sectors including business and commerce, accountancy, insurance, banking, central and local government, academia, teaching, social work and the police force.
Our mantra is: be realistically ambitious.
This involves understanding yourself and the rapidly changing and increasingly competitive graduate jobs market.
Throughout your time at Essex, advisors in our Student Development Team , working closely with colleagues in our School, are available to help you formulate your career plan.
What are the legal consequences of contract failure?
How do you calculate damages?
Examine key aspects of contract law.
Identify legal issues in simulated case studies and learn to construct legal arguments.
Apply legal principles and precedent cases to resolve simulated legal problems.
Build the numerical skills to calculate damages.
View Contract Law on our Module Directory
This module introduces the fundamentals of the UK constitution and the foundations of judicial review.
The module explores: the nature of the constitution; the structure of governmental power; the sources of constitutional rules; and the fundamental principles underpinning the UK constitution.
The module considers the functions of the three branches of government (executive, legislative and judicial) and how they are accountable.
The module examines the framework for protection of human rights in the UK and introduces the grounds of judicial review.
View Public Law on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
How effective is criminal law?
How do you break down a criminal law statute to its component parts?
And how do you then interpret it?
Understand criminal law in England and Wales.
Read and critically analyse judicial decisions.
Assess and answer factual problems, raising issues of criminal liability.
View Criminal Law on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Essex Law Key Skills provides an introduction to the English legal system and helps you acquire and develop a range of key skills that are important for legal studies.
The module introduces you to the key sources of law and tools of practitioners in the English and Welsh legal systems, such as statutes, case law, treaties, and principles of academic writing, including research, writing and referencing skills.
The module allows students to build on their legal and academic skills throughout their first year, with dedicated sessions for ensuring pastoral support.
View Essex Law Key Skills on our Module Directory
What are the main skills expected of a law graduate?
And what key personal factors will inform your career choice?
Get ready for the opportunities and challenges of the graduate labour market.
Undertake activities, workshops and session that help you develop, building your key skills and competencies.
View Career Development Learning Part 1 on our Module Directory
Who is liable for causing psychiatric harm?
Or for causing economic loss?
Study the foundations of negligence liability, examining further aspects of tort law.
Gain experience of applying the principles of negligence liability to duty-based scenarios.
View Tort Law on our Module Directory
Land law is a topic that affects all of us, playing a fundamental role in regulating people's rights over one of the most valuable and useful legal assets.
This module is designed to provide you with a sound understanding of the key features of land law, including its underlying principles and its importance in regulating property relations in response to social policy needs.
Students will learn about the distinction between personal property and land, the framework for establishing and enforcing various different interests in land.
View Land Law on our Module Directory
This module provides you with an understanding of the nature of law, its relationship with society and the question of justice itself.
The module introduces you to aspects of legal theory, contextualised and explains how the authority of law may be justified, as well as providing critical perspectives on law's relationships with power, money, and socially marginalised groups.
You will apply their existing understanding of legal concepts and institutions to wider debates around the effectiveness of law in delivering social justice, connecting doctrine with broader topical debates.
View Justice on our Module Directory
This compulsory second year module, taught in the Spring term, aims to build upon the legal skills which students encounter in the first year module LW105 Legal Skills.
Students will develop a range of skills relating to legal research and project planning, which will both support their learning in the final year of their degree, and constitute valuable transferable skills in their own right.
In particular, LW254 Legal Research Skills will act as a foundation for LW304 Final Year Research Project and students will develop a research proposal for LW304 as part of their assessment for LW254.
View Legal Research Skills on our Module Directory
This module incorporates a range of teaching activities, workshops and panel sessions that encourage you to take ownership of your personal and professional development in order to compete in the graduate labour market.
You will be able to identify, articulate and evidence your employability skills, and will develop a critical understanding of your place in the world of work.
View Career Development Skills Part 2 on our Module Directory
This module provides you with an opportunity to undertake a substantial piece of legal research on a topic of your choice.
You can work alone or with others in groups, under the supervision of a member of staff.
Your project may take the form of a written report, but may equally be a blog, website, film or other outcome.
View Final Year Research Project on our Module Directory
What is meant by breach of trust?
What are the constitutional elements of a fully constituted trust?
How can that trust be terminated?
Study the principles governing the law of trusts.
Examine the development of equity, equitable principles and equitable remedies.
Analyse social and legal contexts in which trusts arise.
View Equity and Trusts on our Module Directory
What are the constitutional issues around the institutional structure of the EU?
How has this changed with enlargement?
Understand EU law to obtain a qualifying law degree.
Examine the concepts of EU law and how different areas are connected.
Analyse EU law within its political and socio-economic context.
View Law of the European Union on our Module Directory
Undergraduate students in Essex Law School typically attend a mix of large lectures and small group tutorials, with most modules having a lecture each week, and one hour tutorial once a fortnight.
Tutorials provide the opportunity to discuss the law, apply the law to factual problems, and develop legal arguments Basic IT skills training is available and training in the use of LEXIS and WESTLAW (legal research tools) is also given You are encouraged to take part in moots (mock trials), negotiation competitions and other practical exercises
Virtually all modules are assessed by a combination of written examination and coursework Examinations are held at the end of each academic year Your first year marks do not count towards your final degree classification
£21,525 per year

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/our-courses:
Not sure what to study at University?
Explore our full range of undergraduate degree courses by subject area.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/applying-to-essex:
Not got your results yet and want to stay ahead of the game?
Sign-up to hear all the latest about Clearing at Essex.
We currently have places available in Clearing across a range of our courses with most offers at BBC-CCD (112 – 88 UCAS tariff points) or equivalent.
We consider each application individually and requirements may be lower for some of our courses, so please get in touch if your grades are below those outlined here.
For most of our courses, the A-level entry requirements are BBB-BBC (120-112 UCAS tariff points).
Full details of the requirements for your chosen course can be found on our course pages .
Our entry requirements during Clearing may be lower, so please don't hesitate to enquire even if you don't meet the grades listed above.
A typical offer will require you to achieve specific grades in three A-levels (or equivalent, including international).
We are also happy to consider your application if you are taking a mixture of A-levels and BTEC qualifications and other UK qualifications and equivalent international qualifications.
It’s important that you complete your application fully to give us all the information we need to make a decision as quickly as possible.
You will need to provide the following:
Although the UCAS Equal Consideration deadline has now passed, most of our courses remain open for applications for 2025 entry until 30 June 2025.
After this date, courses with places available will open in Clearing early July.
UCAS Extra opens on 26 February 2025.
Applicants who have used all five of their UCAS choices and are not holding any offers may be able to add another choice in their application.
Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list below
We can also accept the following qualifications too:
This list is based on what we currently accept for the upcoming year of entry, but may be subject to change in subsequent years.
If you have not already completed your qualifications, our typical offer will require you to achieve specific grades in three A-levels (or equivalent), or the equivalent in UCAS tariff points.
We are also happy to consider your application if you are taking a mixture of A-levels, BTECs and other qualifications that hold UCAS tariff points.
If your results fall short of the offer level by a small margin, your results in other qualifications such as the Extended Project, a Core Maths qualification or an additional AS-level may be taken into account.
We want you to stand the best chance of benefiting from an Essex Education.
If you’re from outside the UK, we are more than happy to make offers based on EU and international qualifications that are considered equivalent to our standard A-level offer.
Up-to-date information is also available on our course pages .
Contact our Admissions team for more information on specific qualifications.
If your predicted or achieved grades are lower than our published entry requirements, you can still apply to Essex.
We’ll review your application as a whole, including previous academic history, personal statement and reference before a final decision is made.
If we can’t make you an offer for the course you have applied for, we’ll automatically consider your application for other related courses, including our Foundation Year courses.
When submitting your application you only need to apply for your preferred entry point.
Our Admissions Team will assess whether you meet the entry requirements for that entry point, or if you'd be better suited to an alternative.
For example, if you apply for Year 1 we will assess if you meet the entry requirements for Year 1, or if you would be better suited to a Foundation Year or Year 2 entry.
You do not need to make multiple applications for the each point of entry.
If you don't quite meet the entry requirements, you may be able to take a foundation year prior to the start of your degree.
A degree with a foundation year, through our Essex Pathways program, will help prepare you academically for university study and when you pass, you are automatically guaranteed a place on your chosen degree.
The following students are eligible:
If you're an international student, you may be eligible to apply to and study a Foundation Certificate with Kaplan International Pathways.
You can browse the degree preparation programmes created in partnership with Kaplan International Pathways , for which you will need to apply directly to Kaplan.
We are committed to supporting students from underrepresented backgrounds to access the University of Essex.
A contextual offer is based on your potential to succeed as an Essex Undergraduate student and applies to UK applicants in the following categories:
Further information, and full eligibility criteria, can be found in our Contextual Offers Policy .
Contextual offers will be made to eligible applicants taking A-levels, a Level 3 BTEC Extended Diploma, a combination of qualifications that hold UCAS tariff points (eg A-levels alongside a BTEC) and the International Baccalaureate.
Where possible, we will make contextual offers to eligible applicants holding other qualifications.
If the standard offer is already at the contextual offer equivalent level based on your individual offer conditions or qualifications (eg UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma), we may be unable to make you a contextual offer.
For further information about what a contextual offer may look like for your specific qualification profile, please contact our Undergraduate Admissions Team .
Register with UCAS to get your application started.
Or you can apply directly through our Admissions Form as an independent applicant.
More information about how to apply and your next steps can be found below.
Our admissions team have plenty of tips to help you to nail writing your Personal Statement, including advice on where to start, what to include and how to really stand out in your application!
Some courses at Essex have a compulsory interview, audition or workshop as part of the application process.
This means that an offer of admission can only be made after being successful at the interview, audition or workshop required for that course, even if the other entry requirements for the course have been met.
Applicants that will be required to attend an interview or audition include the following (this list is not exhaustive):
Some courses require you to undergo a Disclosure and Barring Service check (DBS), when working with children and/or vulnerable adults, and a Occupational Health Check.
Further information about DBS checks and the courses where this may be required is available online .
If you previously started but did not finish a degree course at Essex and are now thinking about coming back to complete your studies, we call this ‘readmission’ and there is a different application route in place.
This procedure doesn't apply to:
It is our policy, and part of national HESA rules, that you cannot normally be considered for readmission to the same programme from which you have been
required to withdraw, or a similar programme which contained modules you have already
taken, for a minimum of two years after you left (with the exception of students who
have been required to withdraw for debt).
You can be considered for immediate readmission to a completely
different area of study if there are good reasons to indicate that you chose the wrong
course originally and there was evidence that you could be successful in a new area.
This is subject to the University’s rules relating to the maximum period of study.
In order for your request to be considered, please complete the application form for former undergraduate students .
Please ensure that you select ‘Yes’ to 'Have you ever registered for a course at the University
of Essex before?’
Your personal statement should cover the reasons why you wish to be readmitted, what you have been
doing since leaving Essex, and why you believe you will be successful if you return to your studies at
Essex.
If you have studied elsewhere since leaving Essex, please give full details of the course(s) you
studied and the dates of your study.
If you are a recent Essex student and you have not studied elsewhere since leaving Essex, then
you will not need to supply a new reference with your application.
The deadlines for the submission of a readmission request are set well in advance of the relevant course
start date, as the process can be a lengthy one, especially if  a student requires a Student visa to study in the UK.
The deadline is 15 July 2025 for October 2025 entry.
Your application will be considered by several departments within the University, so please don’t be concerned
if you don’t hear from us immediately.
Depending on your case, it may be a number of weeks before you receive a
decision.
If you have any concerns about the progress of your readmission request please contact: readmission@essex.ac.uk
There is no right of appeal against selection decisions made by the University, including decisions about readmission.
Complaints will normally be considered to be valid only where there is evidence of procedural irregularity.
In the event
that you are dissatisfied with the University’s readmissions process, you can submit a complaint in line with the Complaints policy for applicants.
We understand that you might want to take a gap year to travel, to work, or to recharge before starting your Essex journey.
We consider applications for deferred entry for all of our courses, except for our East 15 courses and our BSc and FdSc Oral Health Science.
You can apply in the normal way, but you should indicate that you would like to apply for deferred entry on your application.
We understand that sometimes circumstances beyond your control may have impacted your studies.
The Admissions Selector may take into account any extenuating circumstances which have affected an individual applicant when deciding whether an offer should be made, or if an applicant’s place may still be confirmed where exam results miss the entry requirement.
When you apply you can declare whether you have a disability or health issues so we can provide support.
We have a team of disability and wellbeing advisers, dyslexia tutors, and other specialist staff.
Declaring a disability or health issue will not form part of our decision making and we are dedicated to offering equal opportunities to all.
Further information about the support available at Essex is available on our Student Support pages.
The Undergraduate Admissions Feedback Policy (.pdf) provides information on how to request feedback if your undergraduate application is unsuccessful.
Please note that feedback is not available for all undergraduate courses, and this is explained within the Policy.
We're excited for you to join us.
There is no time like the present!
You can apply through UCAS or come straight to us using the buttons below...

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-and-funding:
Getting your head around university fees and funding may seem a stressful part of applying, but we are here to help you through it one step at a time.
Your tuition fees enable us to give you first-class teaching, modern  facilities, access to societies and events, resources in our libraries and online, guidance and support, and not forgetting a truly memorable student experience.
Get to grips with tuition fees, government loans and repayments, and scholarships and bursaries on offer to you.
Our admissions team will assess your fee status when you apply to Essex.
If you are successful in gaining an offer, your fee status will be confirmed in your offer letter.
Visit our fee status page for more information.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/future:
When applying for University you might not have your future mapped out, but it’s important to know that we're here for you every step of the way.
Not meaning to wish away your time with us, but we know the importance of preparing you for life after graduation, which is why at Essex we do everything we can to help you achieve your goals.
We will support you not only when you are a student at Essex, but as a graduate too, helping you to achieve your career aspirations, connecting you to employers and preparing you for your future beyond University or your undergraduate degree.
Once you have completed your undergraduate studies we still have more to offer you, whether you’re looking to start your next adventure immediately, or if you’ve had some time away and are hungry to return, at Essex we’ve got a postgraduate course for you.
If you want to get ahead and discover what studying a postgraduate degree at Essex is like, join us at our on-campus and virtual events .
At  Essex, we pride ourselves on our first-class business links.
We are even the number 1 university in the UK for Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), the flagship Innovate UK programme.
The KTP scheme helps businesses in the UK to innovate and grow by working directly with University academics and graduates.
We have business links in a variety of different departments across the organisation and work directly with businesses such as:
As an Essex student, you have access to CareerHub, where you can search for jobs, placements, internships and other opportunities; book on to events, and arrange a 1:1 appointment with our expert advisers.
After you graduate, you’ll still have access to all of this as part of your careers support for life, so whatever your career circumstances, there’s support available for you .
We highly value our alumni at Essex, up to 33% fee reduction scholarships are available to graduates looking to stay on with us or return for postgraduate study through our fee discount scheme .
You are eligible even if you study abroad here or have a spouse / partner studying here as a full-time international student.
This token can be spent on one year of postgraduate study at either Masters or PhD level!

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/preparing-for-higher-education:
Are you hoping to go to university soon?
Not sure where to start your research journey?
Do you need help starting your personal statement?
Do you want to be fully prepared for university study and life?
If you've answered yes to any of the above, we've got just the thing for you..
Not sure where to start in your research journey?
No problem!
Check out our resources and external links below to help you along your way.
We know that applying to university can be confusing when you first start, so we've compiled an array of guides to help you.
Before you begin the application process, remember to check the course page for the course(s) you are interested in applying to for the entry requirements.
We consider a range of qualifications and assess your application as a whole, looking at academic achievements, your personal statement, references, and any background information.
We are also able to provide contextual offers of up to two grades below the standard to students who meet our criteria .
We have a range of accommodation options to suit different preferences and budgets, and we can even offer a 3 year deal for Colchester and Southend campus students so you can benefit from a fixed rent rate for the duration of your degree.
We are able to guarantee accommodation for all international students for the duration of their course, and for all UK students who make us their firm choice on UCAS and apply by our accommodation deadline.
Find out more about how to apply as a new student at Essex.
Your future matters to us, and at Essex we make sure to offer you a wealth of opportunities to help you reach your potential.
Our Careers Service offers our students access to advice and guidance, from exploring your options to improving your interview technique.
We believe that developing your skills outside your degree helps you gain a competitive edge.
Many of our students take part in placements, opportunities abroad, volunteering and much more.
We offer many funding opportunities to support students from a variety of backgrounds.
Some of  these opportunities are automatically allocated, while others require an application, so it's worth having a check before you begin your studies.
We believe no one should miss out on an Essex education, so we've found ways to make life more affordable across our campuses.
Find out how to get involved in out student community at Essex.
From clubs and societies to SU events and volunteering opportunities, our campuses are buzzing with activities and you'll find a supportive network of like minds where you can pursue your passions and have fun.
Our sports clubs and facilities provide all you need to keep active, whether you're a competitive athlete or a complete beginner!
Our Performance Sport program allows passionate athletes to access extra support over the course of their studies, including coaching and financial support.
Exploring the arts at Essex couldn't be easier!
Our Colchester campus is home to the Art Exchange, ESCALA Collection, and the Lakeside Theatre.
Unleash your creativity by getting involved in our arts societies or using our Student Union's Creative Studios.
At Essex, we recognise and celebrate the different faiths and beliefs of our student and staff community.
All members of our community can use our multi-faith facilities across our three campuses.
We know university life can throw up all kinds of concerns and questions.
If you need some information, advice or support to succeed, stay healthy and happy, we've got it covered.
Our Student Services Hub is the place to go to ask about wellbeing, accommodation, funding, exam-stress, and disability support.
We have brought together a range of excellent resources for students looking to get a head start in preparing for Higher Education.
There's no pressure, no tests, and no charge - just tons of interactive activities, videos, blogs and tips to help you on your educational journey.
To help you succeed, we've launched the University Preparation Programme which is an online short course made up of six modules.
It covers topics like revision skills, independent learning, how to apply for university, student finance as well as how to write a stand-out personal statement.
Exploring a range of both study skills and higher education modules, this online course is designed to support you in your current learning as well as helping you make a successful application and transition to university.
The Essex Preparation Programme is for students who are intending to enrol at the University of Essex having received an offer of study.
It will give you a flying start when it comes to settling in as a student at the University.
To top it off, if you complete the course by 23:59 on 5 October 2024 and are eligible, you will receive a £250 cash bursary !
Terms and conditions are available online.
The course is divided into six topics, covering important parts of university life – such as study habits, reading and writing skills, and critical thinking.
Our Further Studies Preparation Programme for students in Years 10-11 covers six exciting topics to give you the confidence you need to succeed.
This course will provide you with information and tips to consider when making future study choices, easing any uncertainty you may have about life after Year 11 and helping you to become a more confident and effective learner.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/why-go-to-university:
In choosing to enter higher education after school or college, you will not just enter another classroom.
You will step into a global community of young people, looking to learn, grow and build friendships.
Going to university offers so much more than a degree or a pathway to a career.
You will experience a supportive environment in which to develop skills, knowledge and connections that will last a lifetime.
University is your opportunity to create your first home away from home, make new friends, discover your independence and explore the world for yourself.
You'll have time to focus on what's important to you as well as learning life skills such as cooking and managing your money.
At Essex, you'll find a range of accommodation options that will bring you together with fellow students and offer you a place to call your own.
Jobs on campus can put some money in your pocket and provide you with valuable work experience in a supportive environment.
Going to university gives you the chance to explore a subject you’re passionate about and gain an insight and expertise in an area that can offer you an exciting and rewarding future.
Explore our range of subjects and courses and find out more about the incredible facilities we have at Essex that can give you the edge in your chosen field.
In addition to your chosen degree, you will have the chance to expand your knowledge in other areas.
Want to learn a language, develop data skills, live a more sustainable life or fight for human rights and social justice?
You can do just that through our Essex For All programme.
Whether you have a particular career in mind, or you want to explore your options, university will give you the time and space to try things out in a real world environment such as a work placement, internship, voluntary experience or paid job on campus.
Gaining that practical experience will enhance your CV and impress potential employers in your chosen field.
At Essex, we have a range of workplace opportunities , both as part of your course or as an extracurricular activity, including placements overseas.
In addition to practical experience, at Essex you will receive support from our Careers Service .
We will help you build your confidence through CV and interview workshops, and one-to-one advice.
Our Startups team can help support your business ideas and our academics have established industry networks across the private and public sector which can help set you up for success.
At university, you also have the chance to develop transferable skills and knowledge beyond your core degree course.
Taking advantage of the many opportunities available will put you ahead of the rest when you enter the world after graduation.
At Essex, we have a programme of academic and digital skills workshops that will support you through your studies and beyond.
In addition, many of our courses have a practical element which will give you the chance to practice your chosen profession in a supportive and nurturing environment that echoes the feel of the real world.
Check out the study and departmental facilities at Essex such as our science labs, mock wards, law clinic and much more at our main Colchester campus ; our dental labs and business facilities at Southend ; and our theatre and performance facilities at our East 15 Acting School in Loughton.
Continuing in higher education offers fantastic personal development opportunities that will open your mind in new and exciting ways.
You will meet people from different nationalities, cultures and backgrounds who will change and challenge your perspective and inspire you to think creatively.
There will be opportunities to study abroad or take overseas summer internships , and volunteer in areas such as sustainability and social justice.
There are mentoring schemes that put you in touch with a network of students and professionals from all walks of life who can provide valuable insights into your fields of interest.
At Essex we have students from 140 countries representing over 30 different cultures, making us one of the most diverse academic communities in the UK.
When you come to Essex you don't just join an institute of higher education, you become a member of a global family.
University isn't just about hard work!
There will be plenty of time for having fun and making friends, many of whom will endure throughout your life.
When you arrive, you'll be introduced to the Students' Union - run by students, for students - where you'll find clubs, societies and events to suit your needs and tastes.
From club nights to board games,  gardening to disc golf, debating and DJing, you'll meet like minds who share your passion and want to connect.
The Students Union at Essex is where you'll find our V-Team , who organise a range of volunteering opportunities including the chance to work at an animal sanctuary, grow vegetables in our on-campus allotment and work on our clothes exchange, raising money for local charities through sustainable fashion.
Attending university clearly has benefits for your personal development, knowledge and career prospects, but it is also good for your health, and may even lengthen your life!
Yes you read that right.
Research published in The Lancet Public Health journal indicates that attending full time education is linked to longer life expectancy.
Universities support the physical and mental wellbeing of their students through sport, and Essex is no exception.
Visit Essex Sport to check out the outstanding facilities that helped our Essex Rebels female basketball team storm to the national finals in 2024.
We have more than 40 sports clubs covering everything from archery to volleyball, we have a gym, a climbing wall, indoor and outdoor courts and a 40 acre campus offering plenty of space for green exercise.
We know that leaving home and coming to a new city can be stressful, and at Essex we pride ourselves on the support we offer to students throughout their studies.
We provide a range of physical and mental health services to help you through difficult times such as adjusting to your new home, and getting through exams.
If you think that university is out of reach for you, or you're the first in your family to consider it, there is plenty of support out there to ensure you too can benefit.
From financial help to alternative academic routes such as a foundation year, finding your university place might be easier than you think.
At Essex we have a wide range of funding support available including bursaries, scholarships and charity funded awards.
Our Essex Futures Bursary is just one example of the type of support we offer to incoming students from households with an income of £35,000 or under.
If you don't quite meet the entry requirements or haven't studied for a while, we can help with our Essex Pathways programme, which offers a gateway to a degree through a foundation year.
At Essex, we welcome applicants from under-represented groups and ensure that all of our students have the same access to opportunities, irrespective of background, identity or circumstance.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/mature:
Join our diverse community of students who have decided to take a break from education before gaining a degree.
Mature learners make up 28% of our student community, so whether you’re 21 or 51, a career changer or a home maker, your dedication to education is all that matters.
A mature student is anyone who has taken time away from full-time education before coming to university.
For undergraduates this counts as anyone aged 21 or over, for postgraduate this is from 25.
Over a quarter of the Essex community of students are mature learners, so rest assured you’re far from alone.
Whether you're 18 or 80 the Essex family welcomes you and it's really important to us that our mature students feel that warmth and welcome which is why we offer dedicated support and guidance for mature students.
You'll become a member of our Students' Union as standard when you join Essex, so why not really embrace your journey and join our Mature Students Community run by the SU?
Their aim is to ensure you feel supported in the community, hosting social events throughout the year; a chance to get to know likeminded students.
The application process
The journey back into education will vary from student to student so we consider a range of qualifications including Access to HE Diplomas, A-levels, BTECs and practicing professional qualifications.
We recognise that students come from a variety of backgrounds and value mature learners for more than just previous academic success which is why we also welcome those with non-traditional academic backgrounds.
We consider your educational and employment history, along with your personal statement and reference so we gain a rounded, fair view of your suitability for the course and what you could bring to our learning community.
If you can’t see your qualification above or you have any questions please contact our admissions team at admit@essex.ac.uk
We also offer foundation year options for many of our courses, run by our Essex Pathways Department .
A foundation year is also known as Year 0 and helps prepare you with the necessary skills and knowledge to progress onto Year 1 of your main course.
Finances and accommodation
Funding a degree as a mature student isn’t easy, we get it.
Perhaps you have a mortgage or rent to pay and a family to support.
That’s why there are a range of ways you can fund your university education.
If this is your first time at university you may be eligible for a government-backed student loan to help fund your tuition fees.
You can also browse our scholarship finder for opportunities for bursaries and scholarships applicable to you.
If you’re planning to live on campus we offer a range of accommodation options with either ensuite or shared bathroom facilities.
We even offer mature student flats, specifically for our mature learners if you’d prefer not to live with younger students.
Commuting and childcare facilities
If you’re based at our Colchester Campus we have multiple car parks for students and staff.
You can register for a parking permit which entitles you to heavily reduced daily parking fees, helping make the commute a little less stressful.
Colchester Campus also has very good public transport connections with regular buses and links to the local train stations in Colchester and neighbouring Wivenhoe.
Also at our Colchester Campus is the Wivenhoe Park Day Nursery .
Nestled between our North Towers accommodation and the Essex Business School, this on-site nursery offers high-quality educational indoor and outdoor activities to children aged 3 months – 5 years.
If your children are a little older, our school holiday classes - CHUMS - run by Essex Sport offer a range of activities; sports, quiz teams, games and arts and crafts.
CHUMS classes are split into three age groups; 5-7, 8-10 and 11-14 years, each with age appropriate activities.
If you’re at our Southend Campus you will find both of Southend’s train stations within easy walking distance to campus.
Alternatively, there are various public car parks in Southend, with one directly underneath our University Square accommodation.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/integrated-masters:
We offer a number of Integrated Masters programmes across a range of different subject areas.
These programmes combine three years at undergraduate level with a final year at postgraduate level, so upon completion of the course you'll be graduating with a masters-level qualification in your chosen subject.
With many subjects you also have the opportunity to add on an additional year to your course to be spent either studying abroad or on a work placement.
Combining undergraduate and postgraduate study in one degree will give you a strong theoretical background as well as specialist expertise through independent research or projects in your chosen field.
This combination makes graduates from these programmes attractive candidates for many employers.
You'll study the first three years (four years if you choose to add in a study abroad or placement year) at undergraduate level, and during your final year you'll study at postgraduate level and have the opportunity to investigate more advanced topics in your chosen area.
The final year runs in the same schedule as our undergraduate courses, so you'll be completing your final year in nine months as compared to a regular MA/MSc (Master of Arts/Master of Science) which are usually 12 months in duration.
The credit load in the final year is also different to an MA or MSc; you'll be completing 120 credits at postgraduate level instead of the 180 credits usually included in a year-long Masters programme.
Further information about the course structure can be found in the individual course descriptions through the links below.
If you are a current Essex student on a relevant undergraduate programme and are interested in changing your course to one of the new Integrated Master pathways, please discuss this with your department in the first place.
You should also read the guidance for changing your course .
MHist History develops the same key skills for History as on the BA, as well as investigating more advanced topics by achieving a masters-level qualification.
A four-year MArtH Version of this course (five years if taking a year abroad or placement year), in which you will gain solid knowledge of Art History.
On our Integrated Masters in Literature you draw on key texts, core theories and concepts, and develop critical thinking and creative problem-solving skills.
On our MSci Biomedical Science, you study the human immune system, pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacteria, haematology and blood transfusion, and more.
Economics isn't optional to study right now: it's vital to our future well-being in a post COVID-19 world.
Our MMath Mathematics Integrated Masters course covers key skills in mathematics, with the opportunity to apply theory and methods.
On our Integrated Masters in Creative Writing you work on the craft of writing through a multi-genre approach, including fiction, non-fiction, poetry, and more.
On our MSci Marine Biology course, dive into a complex world of whales, coral reefs, fish, deep sea trenches, coastal lagoons, sea ice, and tropical seagrass.
Our MSci Mathematics and Data Science covers key skills in mathematics and data science allowing you to apply theory and methods to real-world problems.
Our MSci Sports and Exercise Science (Integrated Masters) course gives you an exciting perspective on the world of sport, exercise, health and physical fitness.
Discover digital marketing, brand management and organisational behaviour and develop your management skills with this four-year integrated Masters degree.
Our course is built on core principles of economics, which are applied to your study of financial institutions, financial markets, & financial instruments.</
Unlike conventional management courses, at Essex you analyse the economics of a business or organisation and investigate how they operate and behave.
Explore how accounting and financial analysis informs business decision-making with this four-year integrated Bachelors and Masters degree.
We live in an increasingly interconnected and globalised world where events that unfold on other continents can affect our lives very quickly.
Our MSci Actuarial Science and Data Science is an Integrated Masters course that will teach you the art of turning risk into opportunity.
On our Integrated Masters in Literature and Creative Writing you reflect on how literature shapes and is shaped by the world, and hone the craft of writing.
The subjects of biochemistry and biotechnology are continually expanding, and our curriculum evolves to reflect the latest findings and their applications.
If you're a high achiever with an A-level grade B in a major language, this four-year Modern Languages (Translation) course is for you.
Our Integrated Masters equips you with a critical and detailed understanding of the core areas of psychology plus training in research methods and statistics.
Sign-up to learn more about postgraduate study at Essex with emails about funding, facilities, accommodation, careers support and more.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/study-abroad:
Studying abroad gives you the opportunity to study or work for a term or a full year at one of our partner institutions around the globe.
For a full year studying abroad, your degree will extend to four years, with your third year spent studying abroad.
You have the chance to immerse yourself in another culture and develop your independence and cultural awareness - all of which are enormous advantages when you enter the global job market.
It will give you a fresh perspective of the world and your subject, whilst offering you the chance to experience a different educational system.
We have over 150 study abroad partner institutions throughout Africa, Asia, Europe, the pacific and North and South America.
Every year we award over £500,000 in grants and scholarships .
You could study for a term or a year at a partner university, undertake a language teaching assistantship, or a work placement overseas.
The Turing Scheme provides funding for students who are studying or undertaking an international experience through studying abroad , participating in a traineeship or work placement abroad as well as short term programmes .
We are delighted that we have secured Turing Scheme funding for 2024-25.
Showing us the beauty of the Duomo Di Milano and guiding us down winding streets to the open space of Park Sempione, Marissa tells us how her studies in Milan have transformed her personally, as well as greatly benefiting her degree.
Nerifa tells us how studying abroad in Prague not only helped her expand her knowledge in her field, she has also been able to build her independence in an entirely new culture.
Meet Jack and Virgil on their study abroad year in Konstanz.
Taking time out from swimming in lake Konstanz and exploring the Swiss border, they tell us how this year has improved their academic, as well as their personal development.
Meet Coralie and Juan on their study abroad year in Lyon.
Indulge in the inspiring sights of Lyon and immerse yourself in the French culture as they explain how living in this new academic and social world has been invaluable for their degrees.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/prospectus:
Discover why you should choose Essex for your undergraduate degree and transform your future.
Curious about the courses we offer, the facilities you'll use, and the vibrant student life at Essex?
Our Undergraduate Prospectus is your ultimate guide to discovering everything we have to offer.
With a wide range of subjects across multiple disciplines, there's something for everyone at Essex.
At Essex, we’re committed to giving you more than just a great degree.
You’ll have the freedom to pursue your interests, forge lifelong friendships, and tailor your university experience to match your ambitions, passions, and values.
Our prospectus showcases our world-leading research, inspiring employability and career success stories, and our dedication to putting students at the heart of everything we do.
Sign up today to gain immediate access to our digital prospectus and start planning your future.
If you're a UK-based student, you can also request a printed version to explore at your leisure.
If you live in the UK and would like to receive our Undergraduate Prospectus the old fashioned way, just complete our short order form.
Alternatively you can gain access to our digital prospectus and start planning your future straight away.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/parents:
So, someone you care for is interested in going to university.
Congratulations!
Whilst it’s an exciting journey, opening the door to opportunity, personal growth and academic development, we appreciate it can also feel overwhelming – for them and you.
As a parent or guardian you want to help guide your young person through this process.
Through this webpage and our parent-tailored emails we will equip you with the knowledge and understanding you need to not only help your young person through this process, but to also feel more comfortable yourself.
We recommend beginning your research during Spring time if you are planning on joining the University in October of the following year.
You should ensure you explore all the courses available in as much detail as possible, as in many cases some University's may offer courses you might never have thought of before.
If you are applying through UCAS, applications can be submitted between September - January .
Applying then, ensures your application will be given the best consideration by the University.
If you miss this date, some University courses may close, but you can still submit your application and many courses will still be open and taking applications still.
Our 'how to apply' page provides all the information you might need to make your application and goes through the steps and considerations you might need to make.
We all know the experience of your young person going to university is life changing for them, but what about you?
Read about Melanie's experience and how she felt when daughter, Maddie, left the family home to come to Essex to study International Relations.
Spoiler alert - it won't be as bad you think!
We know that students get the most out of their experience at university when they feel settled and supported.
We also understand how nerve wracking this time can be for you as a parent or guardian of a young person starting university.
To help appease these fears, here’s a round-up of some of the ways we ensure our students are supported and cared for during their time with us.
Our Wellbeing Assessors provide a welcoming and friendly space for your young person to talk through any challenges they may be facing.
These sessions are short-term, designed to guide students to the next steps.
For longer-term support, we provide referrals to external health and wellbeing services.
In addition, students can contact the 24-hour Student Wellbeing Support Line (0800 028 3766) and Togetherall , a digital peer support mental health platform, or download the Wisdom App .
Students can also request counselling .
University may be your young person's first time living away from home, so they can benefit from our peer mentor scheme to meet others in their course or to help them join clubs and societies.
If they are unsure who their peer mentor is, they can contact their Department or email peermentor@essex.ac.uk .
Welcome Week is the perfect opportunity for your young person to immerse themselves in university life, meet new people, and form friendships from day one.
Beyond classmates and roommates, students can join societies and clubs run by the Students' Union to meet others with similar interests.
When your young person applies to Essex, they can note any additional learning needs .
Our Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service (SWIS) Team will contact them to offer tailored support in various areas, including financial, academic, and accommodation needs.
If your young person has diabetes, we offer a range of support options:
Colchester, where Essex is based, leads the country in diabetes data, ensuring top-quality care.
Students with physical disabilities will be assigned a named Accessibility and Wellbeing Advisor who offers personalized support and advice.
Our Inclusion Learning Advisers provide study skills reviews and one-on-one tutorials.
Each academic Department has a disability liaison officer to assist as well.
A full range of online support is also available.
Our Security Team in Colchester is available 24/7 to provide support, whether in person or over the phone.
They handle security matters, lockouts, lost property, out-of-hours faults, and liaising with emergency services.
On-campus accommodation is regularly patrolled by 24-hour security.
Each accommodation site has a Security/Reception Office where students can contact security for any in-person issues.
The Security and Campus Safety Team are based on Square 3 of the Colchester Campus.
They can be reached via email at patrol@essex.ac.uk or by phone at 01206 872125 / 873148 (for non-emergencies).
One of the biggest concerns for both parents and students is the cost of going to University, but two things are definitely true: firstly, university is worth it – we provide our students with a transformational experience that will benefit them for the rest of their lives; and secondly, there’s loads of financial support available – many of our students have access to loans, bursaries, scholarships and discounts which will help them pay for their education at Essex.
Undergraduate students from the UK are entitled to apply for a Government-backed loan to cover their tuition fees and living expenses for the duration of their studies with us.
Our Student Union is also here to provide a range of support and guidance to help students deal with their finances and the cost of living, including how to manage their money and more general support and guidance .
For many parents, university is the first time your young person has moved out of the family home and we know you probably have a lot of queries about what living at university will be like for them.
All first-year students at our Colchester and Southend Campuses are guaranteed on-campus accommodation.
This guarantee extends throughout the course for international students.
While UK/Home students are not guaranteed on-campus housing beyond the first year, accommodation is available for the duration of their course.
All rooms are furnished with essential items such as a bed, desk, chair, and wardrobe.
Students will need to bring their own bedding and any additional furnishings they require.
Communal kitchens come equipped with a hob, oven, fridge, freezer, kettle, and microwave.
Each flat also has access to an ironing board and vacuum cleaner for shared use.
Rent covers energy, water bills, internet access, contents insurance, 24/7 security, and support from our wellbeing teams.
For Colchester Campus students, an Essex Sport gym membership is also included.
However, a TV license is required if your young person intends to watch live TV or use BBC iPlayer, which is not included in the rent.
Professional cleaners maintain communal areas, with the frequency of cleaning depending on the accommodation.
Students are responsible for cleaning their own bedrooms and en-suites.
Please note that communal cleaning is not available in the Pastures accommodation.
We offer a range of adapted rooms to meet individual needs, including wheelchair access, hearing impairment accommodations, automated doors, and adapted shower rooms.
Students are welcome to have a guest stay occasionally.
Alternatively to staying with them, if you'd like to visit your young person, you can book accommodation through Event Essex for a comfortable stay on campus.
If your young person wishes to change accommodation, they can request to exchange rooms with another student or move to a vacant room when applications open in November each year.
The number of flatmates varies by accommodation type, ranging from 4 to 16 people.
While your young person can note preferences in the 'additional notes' section of their accommodation application, we cannot guarantee a specific number of flatmates.
We are committed to providing a safe and supportive environment for LGBTQ+ students, which is why we offer dedicated accommodation for those who identify as part of the LGBTQ+ community.
Please note, LGBTQ+ accommodation is not available to allies.
Your young person's accommodation will remain theirs for the entire academic year, including the Christmas and Easter breaks.
They do not need to empty their room during these holidays.
Additionally, summer vacation bookings are available.
We'll guide you through the university application process, making sure you have everything you need to support your young person as they take the leap in to higher education.
One of the big benefits of going to university is the prospect of getting a graduate-level job once students have completed their degree – and this is no different at Essex.
We focus on helping students improve their employability by gaining new skills and having new experiences during their time with us.
Often, students will know what they want to study but you and they might have questions about what type of career their course might lead to.
Our course pages have details about different careers available after graduating.
Your young person will benefit from the support of our student careers service who will provide advice and guidance on how to develop a career plan, write a CV and find a job.
We also offer career mentoring programmes for students, so they can learn from the experience of others who can guide and help students make the right decisions.
We have a wide range of jobs and internships available at Essex, and we have expanded the jobs available on campus to support students with their university living costs.
All of our on-campus jobs are paid at least the Voluntary Living Wage, to support your young person during your time with us.
If your young person wants to gain work experience in a particular sector, they can add a work placement to their degree, or they can choose to study, work or volunteer abroad.
Students can also choose from a range of extra-curricular learning opportunities , such as learning a new language or data science skills.
Essex Startups is also available to provide training, support and funding opportunities to any students who are wanting to start their own business.
All of our graduates can continue to access careers support for life!
Support available includes one to one support for updating CVs, job hunting and making job applications, as well as tailored events, online resources and start-up support for businesses.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/revision:
It's that time of year...
revision season is here again.
But there's no need to panic, we’ve gathered a wealth of revision tips and wellbeing advice from our current students; so here it is, from one generation of Essex students to the next.
Don't worry, we've got your back!
Do plenty of past papers that are available online so that you can familiarise yourself with the mark scheme.
It’s also good to practice in timed conditions so you are less nervous when it comes to the real exam.
Eniola, BA Business Management with a Modern Language, Second Year
Write questions on flash cards with the answer on the other side and get someone to quiz you.
Learn the marking criteria to see what the examiner is specifically looking for.
Finally, make use of a range of different resources e.g., videos, past papers, revision cards, textbooks, mind maps etc.
Aimee, BA Sociology with Social Psychology, Third Year
Go through the material once without trying to learn everything, just get a basic idea of what the subject is.
Then after a few days go back and read it again and this time create notes of what you think is important.
Finally, go over your notes once more to ensure that you have understood everything.
Michael, BSc Business Management (Including Placement Year), Second Year
I would recommend a study schedule that is realistic, and you know you can stick to.
Also give yourself time to relax so you can stay motivated when you get back to studying.
Belle, BA Journalism and Literature, Second Year
When I was revising, I found it helpful to study with friends.
You can quiz each other, do activities together, or even just study in silence.
But it’s great to have another person who can help you fill in any gaps in your knowledge.
Maddie, BA International Relations, Second Year
Pay attention to the method in which you retain information the best; as a visual learner, a lot of diagrams and summary videos help me.
Active recall is absolutely necessary; teaching someone else or even talking about the subject to a friend could help you remember and understand the key information better.
Alicia, BA English Language and Modern Languages, Third Year
Before you begin your studies make sure to plan how long you want to study for and divide your time accordingly.
Make sure to eliminate all distractions such as your phone, TV etc.
Nkosi, BSc Economics, Second Year
We know that revision can be stressful and we understand the pressure, we really do.
But you need to remember that looking after yourself is your top priority throughout revision and exam season, here’s how:
An empty stomach and revision are not a good match.
Keep your stomach full of the right stuff and you’ll be ready to tackle it all.
According to our students, your cupboard should be stocked with:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/offer-holders:
Book your Offer Holder Day Accept your offer
23rd in the UK in the Guardian University
Guide 2025
So, what’s next?
It’s decision time.
Choosing which University is right for you is a big decision to make but we’re here to help support you every step of the way.
Learn more about how to respond to your offer, finances, accommodation, Student visas and more below.
If you have applied via UCAS, once you have received a response from all the universities that you have applied to, you’ll need to decide which two universities you will select as your firm and insurance choice.
Your firm choice is the course and university you most want to go to.
Your insurance choice is your second choice, which is where you would want to go to if you don’t meet the conditions of your firm choice.
After you’ve made your decision, you’ll need to log into UCAS Hub and reply to your offers via the online portal.
If you have applied to Essex directly, visit your MyEssex Applicant portal and go to the 'My applications’ section where you will see an option to reply to your offer.
Offer Holder Days are exclusive events at our Colchester campus for offer-holders where you will get to explore your chosen subject and department in detail, meet other students who have applied to your course and explore our beautiful campus and accommodation options.
Our 2025 Offer Holder Days are now over.
If you are a UK student with an offer from us for undergraduate study, you will receive an email inviting you to an event from February to May.
We’re pleased to offer a travel bursary worth up to £150 to contribute to the cost of travel on the day and have a team ready to help should you have any questions: offerholderdays@essex.ac.uk
If you are an international student, you’ll soon be invited to join us online for our exciting Experience Essex series, to explore Essex from the comfort of your own home!
If you hold an unconditional offer, skip ahead to step 4!...
Next, it’s time to meet any conditions of your offer.
These will be specified on your offer letter and often include academic and English Language conditions.
A small number of our courses ask for a reference.
Please read your offer letter carefully as this will outline what conditions you have, how to meet them and the deadlines that they need to be met by.
Most applicants that need a Student visa to study at Essex will need to pay a tuition fee deposit.
See our Tuition Fee Deposit Policy (which is also available on your myEssex Applicant portal) for information about who needs to pay a deposit, who does not, and how much it is.
If we need you to pay a tuition fee deposit, we will provide you with more information once you’ve accepted an offer, met any offer conditions and your place has been confirmed.
You are also welcome to pay as soon as you have accepted your offer if you would like to.
Once you have accepted your offer, we will send you an email with a link to our Flywire payment platform where you will be able to make your deposit payment.
If you require a Student visa in order to study in the UK, you will need a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies).
More information about visas and immigration (including information about the graduate route) can be found here.
Our Admissions team are responsible for issuing CAS to new students.
The first step is your CAS questionnaire which will be available on your myEssex applicant portal once any offer conditions are met and you have paid your deposit.
Please complete this as quickly as possible.
You can check on the status of your CAS at any time, by visiting your myEssex portal and viewing your CAS tracker.
Once we have completed our checks and are satisfied that you are eligible for our immigration sponsorship, we will issue you with a CAS and your CAS statement will be available to view on your myEssex portal.
We normally start to issue CAS statements around 6 months before the course start date – or 3 months before for January and April start dates.
You must check to make sure your CAS statement is correct.
Please alert Admissions as soon as possible of any changes that need to be made by e-mailing visaquery@essex.ac.uk
Now it’s time to apply for your all-important Student visa, which is needed in order for you to legally study in the UK as an international student.
There is some important information that you should read before making your application.
Please see our Student route application pages , which will guide you through this next stage of the process.
As an Essex Offer Holder you'll have access to our private Offer Holder Communities on Unibuddy.
These communities allow you to get to know your future classmates and start planning your life at Essex with the people you'll be sharing your experience with.
Not signed up yet?
If you have chosen Essex as your firm or insurance choice, applications for accommodation for October 2025 are open .
With a variety of room designs to suit different budgets and needs, we’ve got the perfect place for you to call home.
At Essex your rent includes your energy bills, internet access, 24/7 security, wellbeing support and even gym membership – meaning you can keep an eye on your budget whilst making the most of our campus facilities.
It’s important to plan ahead and get to grips with tuition fees, government loans, scholarships and bursaries - we’ve got a wide range of resources to guide you.
Student Finance England offers eligible students tuition fee loans and maintenance loans to cover tuition fees and contribute toward living costs – you can explore the funding available and apply online here.
You don’t need to have confirmed your place before you apply, so make sure you apply before the relevant deadline.
Use the Essex scholarship finder to explore what additional funding may be available and find out more about the ways we have supported our students through the cost-of-living crisis.
The best way to find out more about what to expect at Essex, is to hear from the students already living it.
You may have questions on your course, finance or employability, or simply want to find out the best places to eat on-campus, the comfiest accommodation or the liveliest night out in welcome week – chat to us on Unibuddy
Better yet, join our offer holder community to chat to those who are also planning to join us in 2025 to start building your Essex network before you arrive.
The innovative Essex Preparation Programme is a short 6-module online study skills course to support students in making a flying start at Essex.
Covering topics from academic integrity to critical thinking, you’ll build your academic skills to help you succeed at university.
You’ll be invited to complete the course over the summer and if you do so by the October deadline, you’ll receive a £250 bursary (T&Cs apply).
Get ready for an incredible journey!
Join us on Social to follow our vibrant and diverse community and explore the adventure that awaits you.
We understand university life can be challenging at times, and we want to ensure you receive the appropriate emotional and mental wellbeing support.
Our Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service (SWIS) are here to support you and can provide free, confidential help and guidance for any concerns that you might have during your time at Essex.
They can advise and signpost you to the support available for mental and emotional health, disability support, academic concerns, financial worries, and accommodation issues.
Our friendly Student Services Hub is the place for advice, support and the information you need.
Your question matters and you’ll get answers from experts.
Before you can start studying with us, you will need to Register and pay your tuition fees.
card and access to everything you need to become a student at Essex.
Registration will usually open the month before you are about to start with us.
Your first few weeks here on campus is called Welcome - we'll have a range of activities and events taking place throughout this time to help prepare you for your future with us.
This'll be your opportunity to make new friends and familiarise yourself with your campus, and academic life.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/forms/sign-up-to-hear-about-our-courses:
Register your details with us below, including the subject you are interested in studying, to receive regular emails from us all about life and study at Essex.
Helpful snippets about Essex will drop into your inbox and you'll learn more about your chosen subject.
You'll also receive information about accommodation options, societies and sports, employability support, extra opportunities like study abroad and placement years, and lots more.
Once you've signed up, return to our Life pages to get a feel for life at Essex.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/forms/clearing-enquiry-form:
Join our Clearing community.
You’ll receive your first email within a few minutes, so please check your Junk folder if it doesn’t arrive.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/student-community:
From your first day on campus, right through to the moment you graduate and beyond - there will be plenty of opportunities along the way for you to make friends, try something new, and change your life forever.
Run by students, for students, your SU is here to ensure that your voice is always heard and that action is taken on the things you care about most.
We will be here for you throughout your entire time studying and beyond.
The SU is here to make your time at university unforgettable...
Get involved and have fun.
Are you a film buff or a footballer?
Are you a gamer or a green campaigner?
Do you fancy learning photography or helping at a local animal shelter?
Check out our huge choice of clubs, societies, sports facilities and volunteering opportunities.
We have more than 70 societies to choose from covering a wide range of themes.
Whether you’re looking for members of your faith or cultural background, searching for others in your department or just want to hang out, you'll find your community through the SU.
If you're looking to meet new people who share the same interests such as arts, music, culture, politics, or even something a little more weird and wonderful, chances are there's an SU society at Essex for you.
And even if you can't find something that floats your boat, then you can even set up a brand new society.
The possibilities are endless at Essex!
The SU is also home to 40+ sports clubs run under the collective name of the Essex Blades.
Whether you’re into solo or group, indoor or outdoor, water or land, competitive or recreational sports, we've got it covered.
It doesn't matter if you're a seasoned pro athlete, want to have a go at something new, or just want to keep fit, you are sure to find something that you'll love.
Essex Students' Union is home to VTeam (Volunteering at Essex) .
We’ve got something for everyone to get involved with, no matter your ability.
Do you want to make a difference, make enduring connections and build skills that will boost your future career, while also doing good for the local community?
That's what the VTeam is all about.
Come along, do something you enjoy and help make the world a better place, one act of kindness at a time.
We are the proud home of ESCALA , a world-renowned Latin American art collection.
We also offer opportunities for students to hone their creative skills at our Art Exchange gallery.
Our Lakeside Theatre also hosts internationally acclaimed plays, live music, performances by our own (incredibly talented) drama students, and you can get involved through the regular open mic nights, show auditions and creative workshops.
For more information, check out our arts and culture facilities across our Colchester , Southend and Loughton campuses.
Rebel is your platform to create, debate, educate, and entertain over 16,000 students at Essex, and gain valuable experience and meet new people while you're at it.
The Rebel team is made up of all kinds of creative types: Writers, photographers, videographers, presenters, producers, technical geniuses, web specialists, and so much more.
But you dont need to have expertise to join us.
If you’ve got something you’d like to learn or share then let’s work together to create something exciting.
Oh, and it doesn’t end there - get ready for some epic events throughout the year: From big nights out, escape rooms, games and bingo to cultural celebrations, firework displays, and festivals to name a few.
Trust us, there's always something exciting happening here, so get involved, live your best life, and make memories that will last a lifetime!
Student's during welcome pillar jousting
We have your back.
Think of the SU as your trusty sidekick, always ready to lend a helping hand.
We are all about supporting you during your time at Essex.
We will advocate for your interests and we will work together to influence decision-making and processes on all kinds of issues, from academic policies to campus facilities and services to make your university experience the best it can be.
We are here to create a positive and supportive campus environment that you can call home.
Get free, confidential help and advice without judgement, whenever you need it at SU Advice .
We can give you support with appeals, academic queries, immigration, student conduct, accommodation, personal welfare, health and wellbeing, money and so much more.
Feeling a bit overwhelmed or just want to chat to someone?
Whatever it is you are dealing with, let’s conquer this together!
We will help you to navigate through any challenges you may be having and guide you through finding a solution that’s right for you, just drop in or give us a call on 01206 863211.
Colchester: Our reception is off Square 3
Southend: Our SU Advice office is on Elmer Approach next to the Mezz in the SU Lounge
Loughton: Get in touch with an adviser via email at suaclou@essex.ac.uk
Need to find somewhere to live while studying at Essex?
SUHomes are here for you.
With a range of properties available; including shared houses, resident landlords, family friendly housing, entire houses, and purpose built student accommodation; short and fixed term tenancies, we will help you find the perfect place.
We are on a mission to be the worlds’ most student-centred organisation, and we’d love for you to join us in achieving this.
Most of the staff at the SU are students and we’ve got lots of roles available.
If you are looking for a job while studying at Essex, why not come and work for the biggest student employer on campus?
Working for the SU is a great opportunity learn new skills to boost your CV, expand your social circle, make a positive impact on the life of other students, and earn yourself some money at the same time.
You belong with us.
When it comes to hanging out and having a good time, we’ve got you covered.
Our venues give you somewhere to unwind, socialise and relax whatever your vibe.
Whether you are on a mission to hit the dance floor with all your mates or just need somewhere to just hang out and chill, we have the space to make it happen.
We get it, university life isn't just about lectures and exams.
It's about embracing adventure, seizing opportunities, and creating memories that'll last a lifetime.
There are plenty of things to see and do during your time at Essex - see how many things you can tick off with our ultimate student bucket lists!
Meet people and make new friends through the SU’s awesome app, Umii, which has already helped thousands of Essex students connect with each other.
Whether you want to chat to other students with the same interests, find a study buddy, or someone to just rant about life with, Umii is the place to find your people.
It’s time to level up your social game at Essex - download the Umii app now:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/sustainable-student-guide:
The world is facing a climate emergency and students around the globe are pioneering ways to minimize their impact on the environment.
You can be part of that change at Essex, by living in a way that's both lighter on the planet and lighter on your pocket.
Essex is in the top 3.5% of universities around the world for making a difference in society and working towards a more sustainable future.
( Times Higher Education Impact Rankings )
You will join an Essex family of 20,000, committed to creating a better world, through bold university initiatives to cut carbon emissions and inspiring student-led schemes to live a lighter life.
Reducing meat consumption is one of the biggest individual contributions you can make to saving the planet and saving your pennies.
Fast is most definitely out of fashion and there is a growing trend for all things sustainable in clothing, whether through repairing, recycling, swapping, donating or buying from charity shops or ethical online outlets.
Our campus offers a range of sustainable transport options, including buses, bikes and e-scooters, and most of our student accommodation is within walking distance of the campus.
Small changes can make a big difference, and there are many ways that you can adjust how you study, live and work to reduce your environmental impact:
The university is committed to reducing our impact on the environment and reaching net zero emissions by 2035.
Our sustainability blogs cover a range of topics from fighting food waste to managing our energy in a cost-of-living crisis, and will provide you with ideas and updates about what we are doing to help tackle the climate emergency
Podcasts such as Louder than Words from our Centre for Public and Policy Engagement, discuss the big issues and how individual and collective action can impact the world for the better
We have a range of sustainability events throughout the year to get involved with.
Get involved in fighting climate change and protecting the environment through collective action.
The Sustainable Students Society is a great place for you to share your passion, meet new friends, and make positive change.
Join the conversation and keep up to date across our social media channels
Tiktok
Instagram
Twitter
Facebook

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/apply/new-students:
New October start student accommodation applications for 2025-2026 are now open.
New students can lock in the current prices for the duration of your studies with our NEW 3-year price lock contract.
Keep the same room you've made home, summer accommodation at the same rate and no price increases for 3 years.
Peace of mind and easy living!
For all UEIC students that are progressing onto either an undergraduate or postgraduate course at Essex for the 2025-26 academic year, please complete the online application via your portal.
Applications will open on 10 January at 10am and you will be able to apply, as soon as your University of Essex record has been created.
Undergraduate applicants will be able to choose and reserve their room when they apply online, using our new Book Now process.
Postgraduate applicants should only apply for areas they are willing to accept.
We regret that Book Now is not as yet available to postgraduate students.
Make sure you read the application guide (.pdf) before making an application for accommodation.
You need to:
It can take up to 24 to 48 hours for the relevant data to be imported into the accommodation application system from the point of creation, so set up your portal as soon as you can.
If you are a First Team Sports Scholar student and want to apply for accommodation, please contact the Sports Centre directly.
Incoming study abroad students should contact Essex Abroad directly, regarding applying for accommodation.
Car parking permits are available for a limited number of accommodation areas on the Colchester Campus.
Current availability is for those choosing to live in either South Courts and The Copse.
The permits are offered on a first-come-served basis and spaces are limited.
The permit will be charged at a reduced rate of £25.00 per term.
This offer is only available to new students starting their course in 2025-26.
Students who have a debt to the university will not be made an offer of accommodation until the debt is cleared.
You will be notified if this is the case and be given an opportunity to make payment to clear this debt.
If this is not received then we may not be able to proceed with your application.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/masters:
Discover the value of a Masters degree at Essex and how it can prepare you for your future.
Life at Essex is full of opportunities.
You'll work with world-leading researchers who are driven to make a difference and you can get involved with departmental research, speak at conferences or even work as a lab assistant.
Whatever your discipline, we can help you go further and gain real-world, valuable experience for your current or future career.
There’s a lot to think about before applying for a Masters degree with us, and we understand that making the decision to do postgraduate study is a big one.
To help you get started, why not explore our subjects , or grab yourself a prospectus to read in your own time.
Some of our courses also allow you to start in January or study part-time , so this is something to consider when doing your research.
We've also developed a new Masters Preparation Programme , which is a short course that you take for free once you have received an offer of study for a taught course at Essex.
It's designed to make sure you are ready for postgraduate-level study and is the perfect preparation for your Masters.
Want to know more?

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/equality-and-diversity:
We pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community.
We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities - to help you fulfil your potential.
Read more about our University and departmental gender equality awards.
Read more about the Race Equality Charter (REC).
Read about how the Athena SWAN award has helped new initiatives and policies be introduced into the University.
Read more about our gender equality awards and applications including Athena SWAN and the GEM award.
Find out about our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy 2019-25
The University celebrates diversity, challenges inequality and is committed to establishing an environment that is free from any form of harassment or bullying.
Find out about our equality, diversity and inclusion annual reports.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/research:
A research degree at Essex gives you the chance to investigate your chosen topic in real depth to reach a profound understanding.
In communicating that understanding, through a thesis or other means, you have a rare opportunity to generate new knowledge.
Your research degree allows you to develop high-level skills, enhances your professional development and builds new networks.
It can open doors to many careers.
You are allocated a supervisor who guides you through the different stages of your research degree.
In some cases, you may have joint supervision by two members of our staff.
Receiving support is a key feature of your experience at Essex and you will have regular meetings to discuss your progress.
Twice a year you will have a supervisory board meeting which provides a more formal opportunity to discuss your progress and agree your plans for the next six months.
If you have a good idea about what the focus of your research will be, you'll need to find a suitable supervisor at Essex.
Search for a research area or subject first and then make contact with a supervisor to discuss your ideas before you apply.
A PhD is one of the highest forms of degree that can be awarded, and results from you making a unique and meaningful contribution to your field.
As well as undertaking a large, independent research project throughout your studies, you will also be examined by viva*.
You are supported by a dedicated member of academic staff, known as a supervisor, to gain a range of research skills.
*The Viva (short for viva voce) is an oral examination in which examiners (usually two) pose questions to the candidate about their thesis.
With an MPhil you will scrutinise a particular topic, independently producing a single large research project, and are examined by viva*.
Throughout your studies you will be supported to gain a range of research skills; in some instances, if you are making good progress, you could convert to a PhD.
A Masters by Dissertation sits at the same level as a taught Masters degree (MA/MSc), but is purely research-based.
Although these courses do not include any taught components, modules designed to enhance your understanding of research methods are usually optional.
You are examined by viva*.
A Masters by Dissertation is a good choice if you have a specific research interest, or already have a topic in mind.
They can also prove good precursors to a PhD.
An Integrated PhD enables you to undertake a Masters-level year, designed to prepare you for your PhD, by enhancing your knowledge of a specific subject.
You will then progress onto the PhD element of the degree, which will last between 3-7 years depending on whether you study full- or part-time.
Learn more about our Integrated PhDs on our dedicated page.
Professional Doctorates are equivalent to a PhD in level and are the ideal choice for experienced professionals who wish to progress in their chosen careers, or for recent graduates who are hoping to establish themselves within a specific industry.
Our Professional Doctorates are delivered by our School of Health and Social Care and our Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies, and combine professional training, teaching and research in a way that is relevant to current practice.
Your thesis is examined by viva*.
The equivalent of a PhD, but available only in the fields of biotechnology and molecular medicine, our MD degrees are open to medically qualified staff working at a NHS Trust which is linked with the University of Essex.
Most of our research degrees are available to study part time to UK and Republic of Ireland nationals and international students with the necessary immigration status to do so.
If you will require a Student visa to study in the UK then you will not be able to study part time at Essex.
Part-time study is normally undertaken on a half-time basis, with your minimum period completed in twice the duration of the full-time equivalent.
Study and attendance requirements may vary in volume and timing, from year-to-year and from course to course.
If you live outside the UK, you can apply for either a part-time or a full-time research degree on a distance-learning basis.
Supervisory arrangements will be specified individually and will include the frequency and mode of contact with your supervisor, on a remote basis, and the periods of time to be spent on any short visits to Essex.
Yes, we have a formal code of practice for our research students, outlining the responsibilities of both you and us.
This covers admission and selection procedures, through to supervision and progress monitoring, to final examination.
Committing to research study can be a really big decision, especially if you need to work out how to pay for tuition fees and other expenses.
We have a range of financial support options that you should consider, from loans to scholarships, and you may even be able to get an Essex loyalty discount.
Our innovative research training scheme, known as Proficio, awards each of our research students up to £2,500 which can be put towards training courses and attending conferences.
This funding will enable you to curate your own tailored training plan, developing the skills and knowledge you need to create an outstanding piece of research.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/prospectus:
Ready to take your expertise to the next level and gain an edge in your future career?
Our Digital Prospectus is your essential guide to discovering what makes Essex the perfect place for advanced study.
With a wide range of courses across multiple disciplines, we offer something for every ambition.
Postgraduate study at Essex is about more than earning a degree.
It’s a chance to immerse yourself in world-class research, collaborate with experts in your field, and join a thriving academic community.
Our prospectus highlights our outstanding facilities, inspiring career success stories, and the flexibility to tailor your studies to your goals and passions.
Sign up today to access our Digital Prospectus instantly and start planning your future.
Our Prospectus is much more than just a list of courses.
This is your ultimate guide to life at Essex.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/why-study-a-postgraduate-qualification:
Whether you’re still completing your degree, or you are part way through your career, post graduate study can be a good choice for your personal development, increased earning potential and becoming an expert in your chosen field.
Studying at postgraduate level is all about deepening your knowledge in an area that you’re passionate about.
Dedicating time to mastering a topic dear to your heart can be a very rewarding and enriching experience and bring lasting personal fulfilment.
At Essex we offer a range of full time and part-time courses at taught master’s level with start dates in both January and October.
Everyone's circumstances are different, so having the flexibility of a January start may be better for you.
Browse our subjects to find out more.
If you want to take your passion further and embark on a PhD, check out our research pages for more details.
Having a postgraduate qualification will boost your CV and help you stand out in an increasingly competitive employment market.
In addition to gaining specialist knowledge, you will develop a range of transferable skills at a high level of excellence which will be attractive to employers.
Planning your study time, scheduling the research for your dissertation, and working on your organisational and time management skills will all help to enhance your employability.
At Essex, we have offer a full range of careers support to help you take your career to the next level.
The freedom that comes with postgraduate study allows you to focus on a very specific area and develop ideas that may contribute to your chosen field.
Building on the organisational skills developed during your degree or working life, you’ll have the flexibility to learn in a more independent way while still getting that crucial academic support.
At Essex we have a range of academic skills resources and guidance for postgraduate students.
Some postgraduate courses include a work placement where you can gain valuable practical experience and develop a network in your chosen industry.
At Essex, some of our masters degrees offer professional placements with an external organisation which will add value and give you a chance to put your academic knowledge into practice.
You may have been working for a number of years in a particular career and you now fancy a change of direction.
A postgraduate qualification can be a great way to explore a subject you’re particularly interested in and chart a new path to a more rewarding profession.
Browse our subjects to find out more about the range of courses we offer at postgraduate level.
If you’ve found that one true passion in life, you want to make a real difference in your field and you love the process of developing new ideas, you may want to consider a PhD.
A postgraduate research degree is an opportunity to dive in deep to a particular subject, contribute to innovation, and work with industry experts.
At Essex, we have academics with an incredible range of expertise who can supervise your research, mentor you and connect you with a global network of industry professionals.
You can explore our research areas by subject or supervisor.
You may be mid-way through your career and feel that you want to take time out to enhance your knowledge and move up to another level in your existing field.
Investing your time and financial resources to study at postgraduate level demonstrates a high degree of commitment to your personal development and career progression.
Some careers require professional accreditation or certification, which a postgraduate qualification can offer.
89% of Essex postgraduate graduates are in highly skilled employment (Graduate outcomes 2024).
You can find details of the professional bodies associated with different subjects on our department pages .
Studies have shown that on average, those with postgraduate degrees earn higher salaries.
According to 2022 graduate labour market statistics postgraduates earn, on average, around £6,500 more than graduates and £18,000 more than non-graduates.
What are you waiting for?
Elevate your earning power and explore a postgraduate qualification at Essex .
If you’re an Essex graduate or an existing Essex student considering your next move, there are a whole bunch of reasons why continuing your education at Essex is a great move including our fast-track application process and an Alumni discount of up to 33%.
Find out more on our progression to postgraduate page .
For those who haven’t studied for some time, Essex offers a Masters Preparation Programme to provide you with the academic skills needed to succeed at that level.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/personal-statements:
Your personal statement should refer specifically to your reasons for wishing to study in the UK, and why you have chosen your area of study.
For UK applicants, you don't need to provide a personal statement with your application unless you are applying for:
Please check our course pages for specific entry requirements for all of our Masters courses.
This is your chance to personalise your application.
It’s a great opportunity to showcase your suitability and passion for your subject.
Your goal should be to convince our postgraduate admissions tutors that you are capable and motivated.
Your personal statement needs to show why you want to study at the University of Essex.
Clear connections between your most recent study and experience with your chosen Masters courses are essential and you should provide a commentary on reasons for your choice.
You should also demonstrate how postgraduate study will build on your current level of learning.
You should express your enthusiasm and motivation to study the course.
Don’t just try to write what you think our postgraduate admissions tutors want to hear, talk about your own reasons.
Write about any projects, dissertations or extended essays that are relevant or demonstrate relevant skills.
Mention any prizes you've won, as well as any travel, time studying abroad and relevant employment you think may make you a good candidate for your course.
Be clear about your subject choice.
When did you become interested in this subject and what have you learned about it so far?
What insights have you gained?
How have you learned about this subject, for example through classes, seminars, work, or even conversations with academic staff?
Highlight any assignments or projects which are relevant or where you’ve done well.
Include relevant skills you've gained, for example computing, knowledge of data analysis software, or relevant scientific techniques etc.
Explain any circumstances that may have affected your academic results, that you think should be considered.
Give reasons why you have chosen to study at Essex and prove that you are familiar with who we are and what we stand for.
Explain what you feel Essex has to offer, why that appeals to you, and how you will be able to contribute.
You may want to research who you will be working with so that you can explain why you would like to work with them and what you will learn from them.
Focus on what academic publications they've written and what their research is on, then explain why this interests you.
Our postgraduate admissions selectors want to be convinced that you are going to cope well with this a level of study.
Demonstrate that you’ve done your homework about the course you're applying for and that you’ve seriously considered your strengths and weaknesses for postgraduate study.
If you have worked during vacations, what skills have you gained?
These might include team working, communication or working under pressure.
Have you had to overcome any obstacles or hardships in your life?
This may show evidence of determination.
You may not have clear focus on what you want to do after you graduate from Essex, but you should have some ideas.
A clear direction will strengthen your commitment to do well in your studies and selectors will know this.
Your desire to become a lawyer or lecturer, for example, should be a logical result of specific experience in your statement.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/progression:
Your journey doesn’t have to end!
Continue your studies with us and gain the advanced skills and knowledge you need for a competitive edge in your career.
As an Essex graduate, you’ll benefit from exclusive discounts and support.
As a thank you for being part of the Essex family, our Alumni Loyalty Discount offers you a 33% tuition fee discount.
The discount is available to:
Chloe Jeffery shares her journey from undergraduate to Masters study at Essex in her blog, including what inspired her to stay, the challenges she faces, and how the experience has shaped her future.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/masters/courses:
Find out more about our different postgraduate Masters courses and subject areas, and make your application today.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/masters/january-starts:
We recognise that everyone's personal circumstances are different and perhaps starting your Masters programme in January suits you better than October.
That's why we have a range of Masters courses available with a January start.
It's part of our commitment to offering flexible study options.
University accommodation is available.
We set aside a quota of our on-campus accommodation specifically for our January start students to call home.
Smaller class sizes for a personalised experience.
The January intake is smaller than October so you'll find your classes are smaller, giving you closer contact with your tutors and peers.
But dont' worry, you'll still get the chance to mix socially with students from the October intake.
The best of both worlds!
We care about our students .
The annual WhatUni Student Choice Awards ranked Essex as the 7th best Students' Union in the country (for the 5th year running!).
These awards are voted for by our students so we're feeling pretty proud.
When you choose to start your Masters degree is entirely up to you and what suits your personal needs best.
Starting your degree in January may just be more convenient for you than starting in October (which is the traditional time to start a Masters degree at Essex).
Whether you begin in October or January, you will qualify with the same degree at the end of your period of study.
Yes, both October and January start dates will enable you to graduate with the same qualification.
No, if you begin your course in October, your studies will finish the following October.
If you start in January, your studies will end the following January.
For example, if you start in January 2026, you will complete your course in January 2027.
Learn about how to apply , the deadlines to submit your application, and other important things to consider during the application process.
Please be aware that some of our courses may close earlier than the deadlines we publish, so if you are interested in one of our courses, we recommend applying as soon as possible so that you don't miss out.
We offer a range of scholarships and financial packages that help students afford the tuition fee costs and other expenses of studying a postgraduate course at Essex.
For students starting their degrees in January, we currently have the following available:
We also offer an Alumni Loyalty Discount to students who are currently studying their undergraduate degree at Essex and progress onto a postgraduate taught course or are returning to Essex after time away from education and previously studied at Essex.
There's also a wide range of other financial support options to consider, including loans, for students starting postgraduate degrees at Essex.
There will be a range of accommodation available  for all full-time postgraduate students who are starting their course in January.
Once you have received and accepted an offer of study from the University, you will be able to apply for accommodation on campus.
Aim to get this done as soon as possible to secure your preferred option.
Take a look at the choices available for postgraduate students, which includes North Towers, The Meadows and University Quays at our Colchester Campus and University Square at our Southend Campus .
If you would like to virtually look around our Colchester Campus and accommodation, check out our virtual tour .
Part-Time
Learn to think globally, tackling the complex and ever-changing regulation of businesses in the UK, Europe, and across the world.
Our LLM offers the opportunity to study a wide range of modules in the areas of Public International Law, Human Rights, Commercial, Trade and Maritime law.
Applied linguistics addresses real-life language problems through insights gained from current linguistic theory, psychology and education.
What is ‘political science' and how does that approach differ from simply historical reporting of political phenomena?
Gain employment anywhere in the world with our MA Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages degree
Our MA Western Marxism course will give you important subject knowledge in Western Marxism as well as wider research skills.
Explore this fast-paced Master in Business Management and develop your operational management skills and strategic knowledge to start your career in management.
The Essex MPP introduces you to all aspects of the policy process, including policy formulation, implementation and evaluation.
Our conversion course equips you with a skillset on AI techniques and prepares you for meeting demand, regardless of your academic background.
Our MSc Applied Data Science is a conversion course specifically designed for students without prior experience of university-level mathematics or statistics.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/masters/fees-and-funding:
Whilst there's no doubt a postgraduate qualification can give you the advantage in a competitive job market, we understand that it's not a decision you're going to make lightly.
At Essex, we're constantly working to make sure you get the best possible student experience.
This means re-investing your fees into employing some of the best academic minds in the UK, and maintaining and improving our facilities.
We offer a range of scholarships and bursaries for our postgraduate students so that talented people from all backgrounds can benefit from an Essex education.
We may also have country-specific funding opportunities .
If you're a talented athlete, we also offer sports scholarships and bursaries in our focus sports, which provides you with coaching and support services, as well as free kit and use of our sports facilities.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/masters/applying-to-essex:
So you've decided what and how to study and now it's time to make it happen.
We'll guide you through the application process, tell you which documents you need and what to expect.
We've made applying for Masters study as straightforward as possible for our current students with our new fast-track application form, now live on your myEssex student portal .
As a current Essex student, you may also be eligible for our Alumni Loyalty Discount , which provides a discount of 33% on tuition fees.
If we can offer you a place, we'll automatically consider you for this award.
We will consider UK degrees, or equivalent international qualifications.
For some courses, there may be additional requirements - but don't let this hold you back from applying.
We will contact you if we need further information when processing your application.
Full details of entry requirements, including English language requirements are on our country pages and course listings .
Please get in touch with Graduate Admissions if you have any further queries regarding the qualifications we accept.
If you're an international student and you don't quite meet the academic requirements, check out our range of preparation courses including our pre-master's programme through our partnership with Kaplan International Pathways.
If you choose a Kaplan course you will need to contact them directly to apply.
When you apply to study with us , there are some supporting documents you may need to provide; for example, a secure English Language test.
It is helpful to provide these at the time you apply; however, you can apply without them.
If you cannot provide the required documents at the time you apply, we may reach out to you to request them and/or make your offer conditional on receiving the documentation.
We may ask to see original documents if you are offered a place.
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex.
Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
For more information, refer to the relevant course on course finder .
Find out whether you need to submit a personal statement as part of your postgraduate application, by visiting our personal statements page .
There, you will also find some tips and advice on how to write a personal statement, which should be no longer than 500 words.
If you have received your test results, then please include a copy with your application.
The main tests we accept are IELTS, TOEFL or Pearson; however, we accept some other tests as well.
Please reference our English Language Requirements linked below.
For most test providers the test must be less than five years old at the time of admission.
The IELTS requirement for your course is listed in our course listings .
You can also see more detailed information about English language requirements here (.pdf)
Official transcripts that show modules and marks/grades must be provided at the time you make your application.
The transcripts must be in English or a certified translation of your academic results to date.
If you are a current student at the University of Essex transcripts are not required.
If you are applying to a Pre-Registration Masters course, MA Social Work, MSc Periodontology, MSc Advanced Periodontal Practice, or the Essex MBA, you will need to provide a copy of your CV with your application.
If you are applying to one of the following courses, then you are required to submit a reference:
Don't worry if you cannot provide your reference when you make your application, as if we make you an offer you will be able to provide this at a later stage.
References should be recent, ideally on letterhead paper, as well as signed and dated by the referee.
We can also accept an email directly from your referee.
Applications for October 2025 entry are open.
We recommend that you apply as soon as you are able to as courses may occasionally close early.
This webpage will be updated with any changes to application deadlines.
You should also plan for any deadlines for funding applications, such as scholarships.
*From 1 July 2025, we asked that all applicants submit complete applications for October 2025 entry.
If an application was incomplete, we would do our best to process it in time for October 2025, but it may have been considered for a later start date.
An application is considered complete when all required documents have been uploaded and demonstrate that the relevant requirements have been met.
This includes:
Visit our page on student visas if you are not sure whether you need one to study in the UK.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks once we have received all the relevant documents from you.
When you create your application, you will be issued with an application number (PG number), which is your unique reference number with us.
You will also be able to create an account on our myEssex for Applicants portal to manage your application.
If we offer you a place, we send you our decision electronically.
You will be able to view and download your offer letter from myEssex within 24 hours of a decision being made.
We will send you an email with instructions on this.
You should use myEssex to accept your place and to keep us informed of any changes to your contact details by updating them online.
The timeframe you have to accept your offer will be clearly stated in your offer letter.
You will usually be given 30 days to accept your offer, although this may be reduced if you receive your offer later in the admissions cycle.
You are able to accept your offer whether it is conditional or unconditional.
If you need an extension on accepting your offer, please contact us .
Before starting your course you need to consider how you are going to fund your studies .
If you need to hold an offer for a course to become eligible for funding, you’ll need to allow time to make your course application and get an offer in place before the funding deadline.
Please browse our scholarships finder to see which you may be eligible for.
The Graduate Admissions Feedback Policy (.pdf) provides information on how to request feedback if your postgraduate application is unsuccessful.
Please note that feedback is not available for all postgraduate courses, and this is explained within the policy.
If you are currently studying at another university, either in the UK or elsewhere, and are not enjoying your experience, you may be considering transferring to the University of Essex.
We welcome enquiries and applications to transfer to the University of Essex and recommend that you read the guidance below before making an application.
Transferring to another institution is a big decision, and can take time to complete.
We would recommend speaking with someone at your current university (such as your personal tutor, supervisor or academic support services) who can provide advice and guidance on the possibility of transferring.
You should also discuss with them the impact that a transfer might have on your funding or visa arrangements.
If you decide that you wish to transfer to the University of Essex, we recommend emailing our Postgraduate Admissions Office before making an application.
Please email pgquery@essex.ac.uk stating that you intend to transfer from your existing institution, stating your course choice and preferred point of entry at Essex.
You should then make your application for the course via the University’s Postgraduate application form and attach the following supporting documentation:
Upon receipt of your application, the relevant department may invite you to interview and will assess your suitability for transfer to the University of Essex.
The following information may also be requested for consideration as part of your application:
All suitable applications for admission are then submitted to the relevant Deputy Dean (Research) for final approval.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK, we will make our own assessment whether we believe you would be able to meet the Home Office requirements.
You may be looking to transfer to the University of Essex from a partner institution in the EU or overseas under one of our link agreements, which support the admissions of students to study with us through progression arrangements.
If you wish to transfer credits for individual modules from your current or previous university study or work experience, you should discuss the matter with the Admissions Office in the first instance.
Your request may be considered under the University’s Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) policy.
This procedure may need to be completed in addition to submitting a standard application to transfer to the University of Essex.
Please refer to the University’s RPL policy and procedure for further information.
The Admissions Selector may take into account any extenuating circumstances which have affected an individual applicant when deciding whether an offer should be made, or if an applicant’s place may still be confirmed where degree results miss the entry requirement.
We will automatically consider information provided within the personal statement and reference about any extenuating circumstances which may have affected your academic performance.
If you wish to inform us of any extenuating circumstances not disclosed in your application, such as illness or any other serious difficulties during study, these should be emailed to pgquery@essex.ac.uk .
You should inform us of any extenuating circumstances as soon as possible.
If further information or evidence is required regarding any extenuating circumstances before a decision can be made, we will contact you.
Any extenuating circumstances provided should only be those not already considered by an examination board prior to your results being issued.
Applications are considered against the same academic criteria as those from other candidates.
If you are disabled, state this on your application form so that we can give early consideration to any support requirements you may have.
Please contact Student Support if you would like to discuss this in more detail before you apply.
If you require an application form in an alternative format please telephone Graduate Admissions on +44 (0) 1206 876587 to discuss your needs.
Policy and procedure for the Recognition of Prior Learning
This procedure applies to former postgraduate students
who are requesting permission to be readmitted to study, having previously left
voluntarily or having been required to withdraw from the University.
It does not apply to:
In order for your request to be considered, please complete the application form for former postgraduate students .
Start date
In the event
that you are dissatisfied with the University’s readmissions process, you can submit a complaint in line with the Complaints policy for applicants (.pdf).

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/applying-to-essex:
Applying for a research degree is a simple process.
At Essex, we are passionate about our research and focus our studies in a variety of different fields.
Before deciding to study with us, it's best to get to know what we specialise in, and explore what we have on offer.
You can do this in several ways.
Now you have a better idea about what Essex has to offer, it's best to read through our research study web pages and explore the options available to you.
Depending on the course and your thesis topic, we offer a variety of different research awards such as:
Subject to availability, we will also have a range of postgraduate research opportunities available to you such as paid studentships or Doctoral Training Partnerships .
There is plenty to choose from.
We have lots of courses available, please explore on the research tab of our subject pages to find one that is best for you.
Many of our research degrees also allow you to start in either January or April, as well as October, so consider when you would like to start your degree before you apply.
Sometimes, the chosen topic you wish to study might cross over several different courses.
Don't worry about this just yet.
Just think about the topic you want to study and form a thesis title.
You'll need this to make your application.
As you discuss your thesis with your chosen supervisor (see Step 4) they will help you choose the right course for you.
On each of our course pages we provide details of the entry requirements you need, as well as what the fees are.
We also have more information on fees and funding within this section of our website.
By now you should have a good understanding of what you want to study, and the related courses that match.
Hopefully by this step, you would have explored our research and know which fields of study our experts supervise.
You can use our research finder tool to search for the field you're interested in and see which supervisors are available.
Each of our supervisors will list what areas they are open to supervision in on their profiles within their 'Research and Professional Activities' section.
You do not need to contact a potential supervisor before applying to any of our research programmes, but you should still prepare a research proposal.
Your research proposal is one of the most important parts of your application, and it's one of the main things we use to differentiate you with other applicants.
During your studies you will conduct and present the results of your original investigations and research.
Therefore, you need to ensure that your research topic will engage and excite you enough for three or four years.
Research your topic by reading around your subject area and start to think what you might like to include in your research proposal.
You may wish to create a few drafts of your research proposal before it is ready to submit.
It is important that the proposal you choose to submit is clear, concise, and well written.
If you want to discuss your research proposal with a potential supervisor before making an application, you should contact them to share your idea.
You should also send them an accompanying Curriculum Vitae (CV), as this will help them learn more about you.
They may be able to help you refine your proposal further before you submit your final application.
Guidance on writing your research proposal
Your research proposal is your chance to explain your personal and academic goals in undertaking an extended piece of research, and reﬂect on the contribution you will make to the development of new knowledge, ideas and solutions.
You should comment on how your research interests fit with the academic focus and expertise at Essex.
Your research proposal needs to demonstrate that you have, or are able to develop, the competencies and skills needed to complete your project, within the time and resources available.
The quality of your writing is important and a good research proposal may be rejected if it is poorly expressed or badly presented.
Many of our departments, schools and centres offer more detailed guidance on preparing a research proposal on their web pages.
If you are applying for funding, ensure your proposal fulfils the requirements of your preferred funding body.
Your research proposal should include:
When you apply to study with us, you'll need to provide a number of supporting documents.
Some of these documents will have to be uploaded with your application, others you may be able to provide at a later date:
English Language This is not required at the time of application .
All teaching at Essex is in English.
If English is not your first language you'll need to demonstrate that you meet all the University's English language requirements before you can study with us.
We accept a wide range of proofs of proficiency.
These include IELTS, TOEFL, Pearson and other tests.
Most tests must normally be less than five years old, and in some cases we accept proof of undergraduate or postgraduate study in English (qualifications must normally be less than five years old at the time of admission).
The English language requirement for your course is listed on each of our course's entry requirements.
This is expressed as an IELTS level, but we will accept other equivalent proofs of proficiency.
You can see more detailed information about English language requirements here (.pdf)
Transcripts Official transcripts that show modules and marks/grades must be provided at the time you make your application.
(Transcripts are not required from current or previous University of Essex students).
Curriculum Vitae (CV) Also known as a resume in some countries, a CV is required for PhD/Integrated courses from Computer Science & Electronic Engineering, Essex Business School, Health & Social Care, Institute for Social & Economic Research (ISER), Law and Human Rights, Life Sciences, and Sociology.
Your research proposal
A personal statement For applicants that require a student visa to study in the UK, a personal statement is required.
Your personal statement should refer specifically to your reasons for wishing to study at the University of Essex, and why you have chosen your area of study.
References Don't worry if you can't provide a reference when you make your application, if we need one you will be able to provide this at a later stage.
When you are ready you can make your application online.
Applications for October 2025 are open.
You should also take into account any deadlines for funding applications, such as scholarships.
Please be aware that not all of our postgraduate research degrees offer a January or April start-date.
We aim to respond to postgraduate research applications within four weeks once we have received a research proposal (or a max.
2 page document on research interests for research and communication skills).
If we offer you a place, we'll send you our decision via email.
You will be able to view and download your offer letter from your myEssex portal within 24 hours of a decision being made.
We will ask you to reply to your offer within 30 days.
If you require an extension to reply to your offer please contact our Postgraduate Admissions Team .
Before starting your course you need to consider how you are going to fund your studies.
If you will need to hold an offer for a course to become eligible for funding, you’ll need to allow time to make your course application and get an offer in place before the funding deadline.
Feedback is not available for all postgraduate courses, and this is explained within the policy.
If you are currently studying at another university, either in the UK or elsewhere, and it’s not working out, you may be considering transferring to the University of Essex.
We welcome enquiries and applications to transfer to Essex and recommend that you read the guidance below before making an application.
Please email pgrquery@essex.ac.uk stating that you intend to transfer from your existing institution, noting your course choice and preferred point of entry at Essex.
You should then make your application for the course via the University’s Postgraduate Application Form and attach the following supporting documentation:
Upon receipt of your application, the relevant department, school or centre at Essex may invite you to interview - usually held online - and will assess your suitability for transfer to the University of Essex.
If you require a student visa to study in the UK, the above information will apply.
However, in addition, we will consider whether you would be able to meet all Home Office requirements when determining whether or not you are eligible to transfer to the University of Essex.
Visit our immigration pages to find out more information.
If you wish to transfer credits for individual modules from your current or previous university study or work experience, you should discuss the matter with the relevant Admissions Office in the first instance.
Your request may be considered under the University’s Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) policy .
Please refer to the University’s RPL policy.
and procedure for further information.
If you are interested in completing a period of visiting research study at Essex, you will need to indicate this in your application and state the length of time you plan to study.
Please contact us if you have any questions about visiting research study.
If you wish to inform us of any extenuating circumstances not disclosed in your application, such as illness or any other serious difficulties during study, these should be emailed to pgrquery@essex.ac.uk .
If you require an application form in an alternative format please call our Postgraduate Admissions Office on +44 (0) 1206 876587 to discuss your needs.
Policy and procedure for the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
This procedure applies to former postgraduate students who are requesting permission to be readmitted to study, having previously left voluntarily or having been required to withdraw from the University.
It is our policy, and part of national HESA rules, that you cannot normally be considered for readmission to the same programme from which you have been required to withdraw, or a similar programme which contained modules you have already taken, for a minimum of two years after you left (with the exception of students who have been required to withdraw for debt).
You can be considered for immediate readmission to a completely different area of study if there are good reasons to indicate that you chose the wrong course originally and there was evidence that you could be successful in a new area.
Your personal statement should cover the reasons why you wish to be readmitted, what you have been doing since leaving Essex, and why you believe you will be successful if you return to your studies at Essex.
If you have studied elsewhere since leaving Essex, please give full details of the course(s) you studied and the dates of your study.
If you are a recent Essex student and you have not studied elsewhere since leaving Essex, then you will not need to supply a new reference with your application.
The deadlines for the submission of a readmission request are set well in advance of the relevant course start date, as the process can be a lengthy one, especially if a student requires a student visa to study in the UK.
For April 2025 start - deadline was 31 January 2025.
For October 2025 start - deadline is 15 July 2025.
For January 2026 start - deadline is 29 October 2025.
Your application will be considered by several departments within the University, so please don’t be concerned if you don’t hear from us immediately.
Depending on your case, it may be a number of weeks before you receive a decision.
In the event that you are dissatisfied with the University’s readmissions process, you can submit a complaint in line with the complaints policy for applicants (.pdf).

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/masters-preparation-programme:
The Masters Preparation Programme is for students who are planning to enrol on a postgraduate taught course at University of Essex having received an offer of study.
The course is divided into three core modules, covering important parts of postgraduate taught study – including teaching, learning, research, and academic integrity.
Throughout, you'll build your academic skills, and a range of others that will help you to succeed at university.
You'll learn through mixed delivery methods, such as video and text - and as the course is online, you can study at a pace that suits you.
On completing this course, you will:
We are hosting a series of online workshops to support your progress throughout the course.
You'll be able to join the webinars directly from within the Masters Preparation Programme.
You can sign-up for the course by following these simple steps:
If you have any problems creating an account or accessing the course, please email orgdev@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/fees-and-funding:
University study is one of the best investments you will ever make.
At Essex you are taught by world-leading academics in a supportive and research-intensive environment.
Our researchers are daring, visionary thinkers; people who are constantly asking difficult questions.
Our research is shaping thinking, and influencing policy.
We're constantly working to make sure you get the best possible student experience.
This means re-investing in your future and providing first-class facilities, as well as support packages to ensure that students from all backgrounds can benefit from an Essex Education.
We want talented people from all backgrounds to be able to benefit from an Essex Education, so we offer a range of scholarships and bursaries .
We also have country-specific funding opportunities .
We also give all our research students up to £2,500 Proficio funding towards training courses and attending conferences.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/how-we-use-your-fees:
Your tuition fees are invested to provide you with a transformational education.
They help us to create the stimulating and cutting-edge environment that supports the world-class research and education we offer at Essex.
Your fees contribute to the teaching costs of seminars and lectures, and all aspects of your student experience, from our wide range of sporting activities to our employability services and our leading Students' Union.
We’ll continue to invest in our campuses and our students and we have some exciting plans, including:
The breakdown of how your fees are spent is listed below:
We're in the UK top 10 for research power across the social sciences, arts and humanities, and science and health – sociology, law, economics and econometrics, politics and international studies and computer science.
universities for research excellence and Essex is a centre of world-leading excellence for the social sciences.
(REF 2021).
To support your future career, we have embedded research and workplace skills in your Essex education.
We also offer language tuition at no extra cost, and a Big Essex Employability Award, which takes account of your work experience, volunteering and student society participation.
Fees for Home students are set by the UK Government.
Increases in fees for full-time undergraduate students with a Home fee status remain subject to UK Government approval each year.
They are not currently subject to an annual increase, however this is also subject to change.
Universities still get some government funding for UK students but none for international students.
International student fees are therefore higher to reflect the full cost of your education.
We also provide extra regulatory and support services for international students (for example, help with immigration and English language support), and these costs are reflected in the fees we charge.
Essex is a statutory charity so we don't have shareholders asking us to make a profit.
We do aim to generate a small cash surplus each year that we can directly reinvest in the University, to continue to improve your experience through new buildings, IT equipment, and better services.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/money/how-to-pay-your-fees:
In this article:
- Tuition fee deposits for international students - Paying early - Payment options - UK students receiving a student loan - General fees information - Full list of tuition fees
If you’re an international student who we offer a place on:
A tuition fee deposit must be paid  before being issued with a Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies for a Student Visa.
We will give you more information on how to pay, including a personalised link to our online payment system using Flywire to make payment by credit or debit card, bank transfer or by e-wallet, when we send your offer letter.
If you've received your Essex PRID number you can make additional tuition fee payments before you register.
A personalised link to our online payment system using Flywire to make payment by credit or debit card, bank transfer or by e-wallet will be in your offer letter.
You can pay online using your PRID number using a credit or debit card through Webpay, our online Student Online Payment System or by our Flywire payment platform with payment options from over 240 countries and territories, in more than 140+ currencies..
The University of Essex no longer accepts payments directly into our bank account.
Tuition and accommodation fees can both be paid directly using the methods below.
Open banking is a commonly used payment solution which allows you to make an online real-time payment by bank transfer from your UK bank account.
The solution is being made available to students in partnership with Flywire using Trustly as part of the Flywire payment platform.
You'll be required to authenticate the payment in the same way as if you are processing a bank transfer using online banking on your mobile or computer, eg a one-time passcode sent to you from your bank or facial recognition.
If you prefer not to use Trustly open banking but still wish to make a UK-to-UK bank transfer, this is also available on the Flywire platform when you select United Kingdom.
However, please be aware that this may then take a little longer to reflect against your invoice.
Find out more about Flywire and how to use it .
The University of Essex has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from international students worldwide.
Easily and securely make education payments in your own currency, using local payment methods from the safety and convenience of your home.
With real-time tracking and around-the-clock multilingual support, millions of students and families around the world trust Flywire for payment processing.
You can use a wide variety of cards, bank transfer companies and e-wallets to pay with Flywire:
The University of Essex has partnered with Convera to accept incoming payments from international students worldwide.
Our Colchester and Southend income desks based in the Student Services Hub are open daily.
Please note we do not accept any cash or cheque payments.
During your online registration, you can pay your fees in full or select to pay by instalments.
Instalment dates will be presented to you as part of your online registration and will be confirmed on your invoice.
You need to pay a minimum of the first term instalment of your tuition fees to enable you to register at the start of your course.
Details of the fees you need to pay will be confirmed as part of online registration.
You can either pay the whole fee for the year in one go, or pay in termly instalments.
Subsequent instalments for terms 2 and 3 are due on specific dates, which will be listed on your invoice and emailed to you after you have registered.
The University does not offer any discount for payment in full.
You need to pay a minimum of the first instalment of your tuition fees to enable you to register at the start of your course.
You can either pay the whole fee for the year in one go, or pay in two instalments.
Subsequent instalment for term 2 is due on a specific date, which will be on your invoice and emailed to you after you have registered.
If you are required to pay a deposit when applying for a place on your course or have made an additional payment in advance,  these amounts will be deducted from your first 50% instalment
Example 1:
Total tuition fee = £25,000
Deposit paid at applicant stage = £4,000
50% Instalment due at registration minus deposit = £8,500
50% Instalment due in January = £12,500
If you are not required to pay a deposit when applying for a place on your course, the two instalments will be calculated and split equally –
Example 2:
Deposit paid at applicant stage = £0
50% Instalment due at registration = £12,500
Please note the due date deadlines are when the payment is to be paid in full.
The University will not offer any further extensions to the instalments offered and we expect you to have secured funding to meet the due date deadlines.
The dates for January starters are:
For postgraduate students with a confirmed postgraduate loan from the Student Loans Company, you can make instalment payments in line with the postgraduate loan release dates:
The dates for October starters are:
The dates for April starters are:
You can check to see if a payment has been allocated to an invoice through Webpay .
Webpay will only list items that are outstanding for payment.
It can take up to 10 working days for international bank transfers to be received by the University.
If you cannot see that the receipt has been allocated to an invoice after 10 working days please send a copy of your remittance or transaction document along with your full name and PRID /customer reference number to income@essex.ac.uk .
It may be that your payment has been received by the University but we have been unable to establish which student it is intended for.
Providing us with this information will enable us to do so.
Our individual course pages provide details of the course fees for all courses, including whether the amount shown is a fee for the entire course, an annual fee or a modular fee.
To search for your course, use our Course Finder search tool .
You can view items that are due for payment through Webpay by choosing the specified payment option.
Students with unpaid fees will receive reminders which will be sent to their University of Essex student email account.
It is important that the account is checked regularly.
Due to Data Protection legislation (GDPR) we cannot communicate about your student account with a third party such as a family member or representative without prior authorisation from the student.
You must provide us with a valid sponsor letter to enable us to bill your sponsor.
Without this document, you will be recorded as a 'self-funded' student and will be sent an invoice and expected to pay yourself.
If you have applied for a tuition fee loan from Student Loans Company (SFE), students must have an approved application and completed their “Student Declaration” before automatic confirmation will be received from Student Loans Company (SFE).
Without this automatic confirmation from Student Loans Company (SFE), you will be recorded as a 'self-funded' student and will be sent an invoice and expected to pay yourself.
In order for us to raise an invoice we will require the financial guarantee from your sponsor authorising us to invoice for your fees (preferably before the commencement of the academic year).
Please send your financial guarantee to income@essex.ac.uk .
A financial guarantee sponsor letter is to be provided for each academic year.
Please send them to income@essex.ac.uk .
If you do not have a UK bank account, you cannot remit monies from abroad to the University's bank account in excess of the fees due to the University.
The University does not act as a bank.
Any overpayments made can only be returned to the bank account from which the payment was originally made.
Regrettably, in most instances we are not able to provide you with a precise length of time you will wait to receive your refund, however, please read the following to obtain a better understanding of the timelines involved.
For transactions originally made online using credit/debit cards, please allow up to 14 days for the settlement of funds to credit your original payment card.
For domestic BACS refund, these will take up to 14 days to process, and once you have received your remittance advice, the funds will show in your nominated bank account in 2 working days.
For foreign payment refund, these will take up to 14 days to process, and once you have received your remittance advice, the funds will show in your nominated bank account between 2-10 working days dependent on the country associated with the bank account.
Please note all refunds will only be made to the bank and account holder (or other financial institution) that originally paid the fee.
Online payments will be refunded to the original card used for payment.
If you anticipate any difficulty paying your tuition or accommodation fees, please contact the Income team by emailing income@essex.ac.uk .
Please review our financial support information on our range of loans and funds available.
An up-to-date list of sanctioned countries and regions can be found at Sanctions Programs and Country Information .
We are unable to accept any payments where:
If you're a  undergraduate then you may be eligible for a UK government tuition fee loan .
The Student Loans Company (SLC) will pay your fees directly to us, so you don't have to pay us yourself.
It's still important for you to read our fee payment terms and policies below.
You also need to remember to re-apply for your loan each year.
If you have a confirmed postgraduate loan from the Student Loans Company, you can make instalment payments, in line with the postgraduate loan release dates.
In order to have your postgraduate loan officially confirmed by the University via the SLC's online system, you must have returned your signed declaration to the SLC.
If your loan has not been officially confirmed to the University by the start of term you will be required to pay the initial instalment online during the pre-registration process or in person at registration.
Higher and Degree Apprentices do not pay any tuition fees as these are covered by their employer, as well as earning a salary.
However, due to the nature of apprenticeships and how they are funded, apprentices are not eligible for student finance via Student Finance England – this includes both tuition fee loans and maintenance loans.
Living costs, including housing, travel, and materials will need to be covered by the apprentice themselves.
If you have an invoice query, please contact the Income team at income@essex.ac.uk .
The information on this page only relates to University undergraduate and postgraduate courses (eg degree courses).
Short courses are normally administered by individual academic departments.
You should contact the department running your course if you have any queries about paying your fees.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/human-rights-summer-school:
Monday 9 to Friday 20 June 2025
The Essex Human Rights Centre is delighted to present its pioneering and popular summer school on human rights taught by an interdisciplinary faculty of renowned academics and practitioners.
Applications to the Human Rights Summer School are now closed.
If you are interested in joining future cohorts, please complete the Expression of Interest Form and we will be in touch with the course dates for next year once these are confirmed.
Human Rights Centre on social media:
The Essex Human Rights Summer School will cover a wide range of topics related to professional practice in human rights.
Taught by an international faculty of leading experts in the field, the Summer School will examine human rights research methods, advocacy and campaigning strategies, and aspects of professional development.
The programme includes sessions that address growing challenges human rights professionals face and highlights opportunities to overcome them.
The curriculum is designed to build the capacity of both mid-career human rights professionals and postgraduate students to be successful human rights defenders and researchers.
Backed by continuing high demand and excellent feedback on the online delivery mode and the expanded curriculum delivered in the last three years, the sessions will cover a range of research methods and skills necessary for successful human rights practice and professional development in a challenging world.
Thus, the sessions cover advocacy, organisational management, coping strategies and practitioner case studies to enrich the expertise of mid-career professionals and empower students who wish to embark on a career in human rights research or practice.
Sessions will run from Monday to Friday, 1pm to 4.30pm BST
Below is an indicative list of sessions that will be offered:
This session will provide an introductory overview of the key debates and developments around human rights promotion and how they affect the work of human rights defenders.
Operational Challenges and Opportunities: A Field Perspective
Drawing on decades of expertise of working on refugee-related issues, this session will provide practical perspectives on the challenges and opportunities of promoting human rights in one of the most pressing human rights concerns of our time.
This session is designed to facilitate self-reflective learning through a guided discussion to exchange experiences and expertise of participants, and to support networking amongst participants.
The session will focus on how to carry out legal and qualitative single case studies, its effects and impact.
Participants will be invited to consider the design and findings of a comparative (both country and thematic) funded research project.
The purpose will be to prompt participants to suggest how a single case study could have been more illuminating and to identify what have been lost in a single case study.
Attention will then shift to a single case study to assess the richness it can offer, and the selection justification it requires.
The session will end with writing case-selection justification exercise and the evaluation of these justifications.
An essential session for human rights researchers, this seminar will cover different tasks related to qualitative data analysis: how to transcribe interviews; how to identify patterns in the data; and how to make sense of research material using discourse analysis.
This session examines the use of socio-economic and administrative statistics, which involves using existing or creating new indicators for governmental activity that has a bearing on human rights, including input, process, output, outcome, and impact indicators.
The United Nations has developed a framework for incorporating these kinds of measures into the work of treaty bodies, as well as other kinds of human rights project work.
Experimental methods are a field of growing importance in the social sciences and policy/impact evaluation.
Experiments enable social scientists and applied researchers to draw valid inferences about cause and effect.
This session will provide an introduction to experimental methods.
It will discuss different experimental methods including field, survey, and lab experiments using applications from the study of human rights.
Reparation remains the most victim friendly tool of transitional justice.
Nevertheless, ensuring reparation in a transitional justice context is more than a challenge.
The session will deal with how to document harm in such situations (different methodologies), where and when to claim reparations in a survivor centred manner and doing no harm.
The session will take into account gender, cultural and religious sensitive approaches.
In particular, the session will focus on lessons learned dealing with documentation of conflict-related sexual violence, and co-creation with survivors.
This session will look at how the history of human rights interweaves with histories of race and colonialism.
In addition to exploring how human rights responded to the coterminous emergence of decolonisation and racial justice struggles in the twentieth century, this lecture will also debate some of the recent critical legal scholarship that argues for the significance of colonialism as an influence for emergence of modern human rights.
International human rights law increasingly addresses and becomes interwoven with key related international initiatives and agendas, including the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, the rule of law, and the international climate change framework.
This session looks at commonalities and differences between their goals and how working across different fora, terminology and frameworks could leverage each for maximum effect.
The session will include example problems on framing human rights and development-related advocacy at both the international and national level, including a focus on use of data and indicators to evidence progress.
Our expanded focus on human rights practice includes a session on litigation.
It will examine strategic choices taken in seeking to enforce human rights and how challenges that arise in the use of litigation to protect human rights can be addressed.
Amidst rising challenges to human rights, the importance of acquiring expertise in human rights advocacy cannot be overstated.
Participants will learn about different ways in which human rights advocacy can be advanced in a range of settings, covering the UN's diverse human rights mechanisms as well as regional and country contexts.
The power of human rights advocacy greatly depends on strategic communications and framing.
Campaigning and advocacy are stronger when they show awareness of the power of words, because power is constituted through accepted forms of knowledge and understandings of what's true and what's right.
This session will focus on the importance of understanding not only what a target audience thinks, but also how they think.
Human rights advocacy needs messages that stick and resonate with people's minds, messages that meet them where they are.
The seminar will look at what it is said, how it is said, and who says it: Who is speaking on behalf of human rights?
While good research is essential, this seminar will explore what makes good research impactful.
Combining Social Movement Theory with practical examples, this session will introduce the idea of Theory of Change as a key component of campaign development.
It will discuss the timeliness of political opportunities, and how to recognise them as they unfold.
The seminar will discuss the importance of assessing what can be reasonably achieved with existing mobilising structures.
As words and cognitive cues can make a difference, participants will identify how framing processes can shape the outcome of a campaign.
This year we have also included sessions to cover skills related to management and organisational development.
This session will highlight the strategies and practices of a range of human rights NGOs in the identification of priorities and in the allocation of their resources; and the potential for increasing effectiveness and efficiency.
This session will explore how a psychoanalytic approach can illuminate the dynamics of groups and organisations, including insights into how an individual positions themselves in groups and the group dynamics that affects that role.
Human rights research is most needed where it is often the most challenging to undertake them.
This session will cover the challenges and opportunities for undertaking human rights research in countries lacking in the rule of law.
It will address working with sources for primary research, the interaction of the researcher with authorities; the balance between legal analysis and empirical findings; dealing with bias; and security during in country research.
Human rights defenders are especially susceptible to burn-out.
Field-wide problems, such as a pervasive lack of adequate funding and ever-increasing workloads, often interact with individual circumstances such as personal trauma, poor coping mechanisms and a lack of healthy role models, to create a perfect storm of conditions that make the field of human rights advocacy one of the most difficult to work in.
In addition, human rights defenders are often tasked with working with victims and gathering evidence of violations, which exposes them to the trauma of others and the risk of secondary or vicarious trauma themselves.
Building resilience in the field of human rights advocacy requires several different approaches, from institutional reform to personal training.
In this session, we will look at why resilience awareness and training are so important and what human rights organisations can do to make sure their employees have the right tools to protect themselves while working in these difficult conditions.
Human Rights Defenders are increasingly under pressure around the world.
This session will examine the challenges faced by human rights defenders in different contexts and the various opportunities and strategies that can be used to overcome them.
It will focus on specific work undertaken by international monitors committed to supporting human rights defenders.
Continuing the engagement with international human rights protection mechanisms, this session will provide case studies on effective NGO engagement with the UN's special procedures including research, networking and advocacy.
Drawing on case studies on the UN Special Procedures system, the session will cover the experiences of both a country-specific mandate and a thematic mandate, and offer insights on maximising impact.
Professor Nazila Ghanea, Professor of International Human Rights Law, University of Oxford, and UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief
Ed O'Donovan , Special Advisor to UN Special Rapporteur on the Situation of Human Rights Defenders, Guest Researcher, Norwegian Centre for Human Rights
Michael Phoenix , Office of the UN Special Rapporteur on the Situation of Human Rights Defenders
Dr Kojo Koram , Reader in Law,  Birkbeck School of Law, University of London
Daniel Genberg , Consultant on not-for-profit organisations, former Director of Governance at Amnesty International
Dr Chris Tanner , Senior Lecturer, Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies, University of Essex
Dr Dominik Duell , Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, University of Innsbruck
Dr Barbora Černušáková , ESRC/SeNSS Postdoctoral Fellow Goldsmiths, University of London.
Consultant Researcher on Technology and Workers' Rights
Dr Patricia Palacios Zuloaga , Lecturer, Essex Law School, and Human Rights Centre, University of Essex
Dr Koldo Casla , Lecturer, Essex Law School, and Director, Essex Human Rights Centre Clinic, University of Essex
Judith Bueno de Mesquita , Senior Lecturer, Essex Law School, and Acting Director, Human Rights Centre, University of Essex
Professor Geoff Gilbert , Essex Law School, and Chair of the Global Academic Interdisciplinary Network of the Global Compact on Refugees, University of Essex
Professor Clara Sandoval-Villalba , Essex Law School, and Human Rights Centre, University of Essex and Co-Director of the Essex Transitional Justice Network
Professor Rosin Ryan-Flood , Department of Sociology and Criminology, University of Essex and Director of the Centre for Intimate and Sexual Citizenship (CISC)
Rose Richter , Executive Director, Impact Iran and Consultant, Religion and Equality Project, Essex Human Rights Centre
Dr Elizabeth O’Casey , Advocacy Director, Humanist International, Brussels
Steven Malby, Visiting Fellow, Essex Law School and Human Rights Centre, University of Essex
Dr Matthew Gillett , Senior Lecturer, Essex Law School, and Human Rights Centre, University of Essex and Member, UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention
Dr Marina Lostal , Senior Lecturer, Essex Law School, and Human Rights Centre, University of Essex
Dr Aoife Duffy, Senior Lecturer, Essex Law School, and Human Rights Centre, University of Essex
Professor Ahmed Shaheed , Essex Law School, and Human Rights Centre, University of Essex and former UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief and former UN Special Rapporteur on Iran
In taking this course, participants will:
It is an ideal course for postgraduate students, academics, lawyers and human rights professionals working in NGOs, government and international organisations.
We will conduct sessions via the video conferencing software Zoom.
Participants must have access to appropriate computing facilities as well as a reliable internet connection to enable full participation in the online sessions.
In addition, many of our sessions will be able to offer recordings that will be available to those enrolled.
We will ensure that each participant has access to the necessary software to participate in their course, along with other materials, as part of your course fees.
For best learning success, participants should have the background knowledge necessary to follow a course by reading through the provided course instructions and reading lists.
Anyone who is uncertain about whether the Summer School is suitable for their needs or their background should contact the Human Rights Summer School team for advice: hrcsummerschool@essex.ac.uk
Applications for our 2025 Summer School are now closed.
Please note that we are unable to offer any scholarships for this Summer School.
Please get in touch for details of further discounts that are available for the following:
Your application will then be reviewed by a member of the Human Rights Summer School team and you will be contacted if you are successful.
You will then be sent a link to pay as well as details on how to complete the next steps of the registration process.
Once you have paid you will receive confirmation of your place.
Applications will need to be finalised by 2 June 2025 in order for you to be given necessary access.
For any payment issues or queries, please contact hrcsumsc@essex.ac.uk
Please note, to take part in the summer school virtually you will need access to a laptop/computer and have a reliable internet connection.
You can pay for your place online via our Webshop which you will be sent a link to after completing the application form.
The University bank will accept Visa, Mastercard, and Eurocard.
Essex Research students need to enrol via Proficio in addition to the online application .
If you are paying for your course fee using University of Essex Proficio funds, you will need to use the Proficio platform .
If you specifically require payment via an invoice, please  email us: hrcsummerschool@essex.ac.uk
Once you've paid, we will send you our welcome pack with instructions on how to finalise your place.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/human-rights-leadership-lab:
The Essex Human Rights Centre presents a live online course for Human Rights Leaders.
This is a practical professional development course, specifically tailored for human rights professionals and human rights defenders who currently occupy or are soon to occupy leadership positions.
You will acquire concrete tools and skills to practice human rights values-based leadership and take your leadership ability, skills and presence to the next level.
The course comprises six four-hour modules and will be delivered in an online, interactive format, split over 4 weeks.
Times: London 08:30 / Europe 09:30 / IST 13:00 / ICT 14:30
Applications for our October are now open!
For enquiries, please contact: summerschoolsandshortcourses@essex.ac.uk
If you are interested in joining future cohorts, please complete the Expression of Interest Form and we will be in touch with future labs for your time zone.
The Leadership Lab runs twice a year, in Spring and Autumn.
Our Autumn Lab is scheduled for European and Eastern time zones and our Spring Lab is focused on Eastern time zones.
The Human Rights Leadership Lab is a supportive and reflective learning space to develop your leadership presence, skills and impact.
It is the first ever leadership development training specifically designed to meet the needs of activists and leaders and managers working for human rights organisations.
You will gain practical tools to take your leadership to the next level, placing your core human rights values at the heart of your approach.
The Human Rights Leadership Lab commences with an examination of it's core philosophy - a human rights values-based approach to leadership.
We then turn to examine human rights organisational culture, different leadership styles and competencies and how to motivate and inspire people using an empowering coaching approach.
The final part of the Human Rights Leadership Lab focuses on how to build healthier and more sustainable working environments and prevent, mitigate and respond to stress, burn out and vicarious trauma through self-leadership and collective care strategies.
You will acquire new leadership strategies, skills and tools and be empowered to lead more mindfully and do more impactful human rights work.
All participants who successfully complete the course will receive a University of Essex, Human Rights Centre certificate.
The design of the course requires limiting enrolment to a maximum of 11 participants.
Liz Griffin is an honorary academic and professionally certified leadership coach and mentor.
Liz empowers people working in social and climate justice spaces to make bigger strategic impacts, nurture leadership ability, presence and skills and build healthier organisations and sustainable ways of working.
Liz is an Executive Fellow of the Human Rights Centre at the University of Essex where she previously lectured in International Human Rights Law.
Liz has over 25 years of leadership experience working with the UN, human rights NGOs and universities, rising to the level of Professor of International Human Rights Law.
She established and managed Amnesty International’s first ever field office and she has served as expert consultant and leadership coach to a large number of NGOs, IGOs and foundations, including the UN Office for the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the ICRC and the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights.
Liz is a recognised expert in the theory and practice of human rights, with a specialisation in the practical aspects of human rights work.
She has lectured and directed large programs and human rights centres at the University of Oxford (UK), the UN-mandated University for Peace (Costa Rica), and Jindal Global University (India).
Find out more about Liz .
The idea that human rights values and principles motivate, inform and inspire us as leaders is the central theme of the Human Rights Leadership Lab and shows up in all six 4-hour modules.
Module 1: Values-Based Leadership and Organisational Culture
Module 2: Leadership Styles and Emotional Intelligence Framework
Module 3: Coaching to Empower, Inspire and Motivate
Module 4: Open Space Leadership Lab Work
Module 5: Leading Yourself and Others Doing Human Rights Work
Module 6: Self-Leadership and Self-Care
You will learn how to:
The content of the course is specifically tailored for human rights professionals and human rights defenders who currently occupy or are soon to occupy leadership positions.
It is not suitable for other people who do not meet this key criterion.
You are a human rights activist or professional who is…
This is an ideal course for those working in NGO’s or for organisations that are working to support and respect human rights values.
The application form includes a brief questionnaire relating to your leadership experience and credentials, which you are required to complete as part of your application.
The course is delivered entirely in English.
Thus, you are required to be highly competent in English.
If you are interested in wider human rights issues, the HRC offers a highly successful Human Rights Summer School which may be far more suitable to your needs and interests.
We are also developing a selection of professional short courses and CPDs designed to meet the human rights needs of a wide range of different human rights students and defenders.
The fees for the Human Leadership Lab are:
The delivery of this course is dependent on a minimum number of applicants.
In the unlikely event that this minimum is not met, we would have to reconsider the feasibility of running the course
Applications for our April Human Rights Leadership Lab are now open!
To apply, complete the steps below:
Webshop

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/international-law-in-armed-conflict:
The Essex Human Rights Centre and the Essex Armed Conflict and Crisis Hub are once again presenting their successful practical development course in 2025, taught by leading practitioners in the field of international Human Rights and Armed Conflict.
Applications for our 2025 course have now closed.
If you are interested in joining future cohorts, please complete the Expression of Interest form below and we will be in touch with dates of future courses.
This course is designed to provide the foundations for understanding the role of international law in situations of armed conflict.
We will learn how the law regulates the conduct of parties to the conflict, how it seeks to combine principles of military necessity and humanity, and the protections it provides to affected populations.
Alongside the applicable rules, the course will provide insight into how these are implemented in practice, with a focus on the real-world challenges faced by those in the field.
All participants who successfully complete the course will receive a University of Essex, Human Rights Centre Certificate.
The design of the course requires limiting enrolment to a maximum of 40 participants.
The international Law in Armed Conflict course is held at our Colchester campus, starting Monday lunchtime and finishing Friday lunchtime with the sessions Tuesday to Thursday running between 9am to 5pm (lunch and refreshments are provided)
All sessions will include an interactive approach combining presentations, discussion, and case-studies.
A more detailed teaching programme will be sent to eligible participants ahead of the course along with any pre-reading materials.
Day 1:
Day 2:
Day 3:
Day 4:
In taking this course participants will:
The content of the course is suitable for practitioners - from the humanitarian and human rights world as well as staff from government and international bodies - intending to gain an understanding of the legal frameworks for regulating armed conflict.
It is also suited to post-graduate students and academics seeking knowledge in this field.
A law degree is not required, but some familiarity with international law is recommended.
If you are interested in joining future cohorts, please complete the Expression of Interest form and we will be in touch with dates of future courses.
Fees for the International Law in Armed Conflict course 2025 are;
Fee includes:
* Delegates will be responsible for obtaining their own food outside of these times.
We recommend taking this into account when you budget for attendance.
There is a Tesco located nearby, as well as many food outlets on campus.
Accommodation is not included in our Short Course package.
Delegates will be able to book on campus accommodation at very affordable rates.
We offer room only (£49) or bed and breakfast (£55) accommodation.
Rooms have en-suite facilities with bedlinen provided as well as shared access to a kitchen.
The University of Essex's Colchester Campus is just one hour from London and Stansted Airport, and set in over 200 acres of beautiful parkland, and homes over 20 academic departments and schools.
Find out more about travelling to our Colchester Campus .
Once your application has been accepted, we will send you all the necessary information and links to make your accommodation booking.
Applications to the International Law in Armed Conflict short course 2025 are now closed.
If you are interested in joining future cohorts, please complete the Expression of Interest Form and we will be in touch with dates of future courses.
Paying by Proficio
Essex Research students need to enrol via Proficio in addition to the online application.
If you are interested in joining future cohorts please complete the Expression of Interest Form and we will be in touch when applications go live.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/effecting-change:
Thursday 18 to Friday 19 September 2025
The Centre for Investigating Contemporary Social Ills (CICSI) together with the School of Philosophical, Historical and Interdisciplinary Studies (PHAIS), presents a two-day Summer School taught by leading experts and practitioners working on ending coercion in mental health settings and on wider social reform to prevent distress.
The 3rd CICSI Summer School, Sick Normalities: Changing Practices, Changing Selves , will be held in-person at our Colchester campus over 2 days from 18 to 19 September 2025.
Applications for the 3rd CICSI Summer School are now open .
For enquiries, please contact cicsi@essex.ac.uk .
Following on from the previous two Summer Schools (and feedback from participants), 2025's Summer School will focus on two themes: Ending coercion in mental health settings and preventing distress and Politics, war, environmental breakdown, and changing selves.
Taught by leading experts and practitioners and run over 2 days, this Summer School consists of a mixture of presentations, interactive exercises, and case study discussions.
All participants who successfully complete the course will receive a CICSI Summer School certificate.
The design of the course requires limiting enrolment to a maximum of 28 participants.
Professsor Fabian Freyenhagen and Dr Polona Curk , founding Co-Directors of CICSI.
Sick Normalities: Changing Practices, Changing Selves, the 3rd CICSI Summer School, is held over 2 days and consists of a mixture of presentations, interactive exercises, and case study discussions.
Starting 10am on Thursday 18 September and finishing on Friday 19 September 2025 5pm (dinner on Thursday, and lunch and refreshments on both days are provided).
Here is the provisional summary of the programme:
Day 1: Ending coercion in mental health settings and preventing distress Ending coercion is an explicit UN goal since 2017, but its implementation faces many obstacles.
The first day will be dedicated to understanding how ending it was adopted as a goal by the WHO and UN, and what good practices exist that make this a feasible goal to aim for as well as how to navigate challenging situations with those in severe distress without coercion.
We will also explore how to prevent distress from a rising in our psychiatric present.
Day 2: Politics, war, environmental breakdown, and changing selves
This day extends the idea that politics is and must be brought into the clinic in various ways, adjusting therapeutic interventions to respond to social patterns of distress, and acute crises such as war and environmental breakdown, as well as reflecting on our values and ways of living.
The fees for the Change: ending coercion in mental health settings and effecting social reform course are:
Course fee does not include accommodation (See Accommodation section for more details).
To take advantage of our Early Bird Discount please submit payment by 5 July 2025.
In the unlikely event that this minimum is not met, we would have to reconsider the feasibility of running this course.
Accommodation can be booked (and paid) separately.
There are two options on campus:
Essex University Student Accommodation: £45 per person per night (this does not include breakfast; there are various food options on campus and a supermarket nearby) or £51 per person per night, with breakfast included.
The rooms are in easy walking distance of the summer school venue.
To book please visit:
Book Bed & Breakfast accommodation at the University of Essex hotel and conference venues and enter one of the following promo codes:
CICSIRO (for room only)
CICSIBB (for bed and breakfast)
If you wish to book over the phone, you can call 01206 872358.
The office opening times are Monday-Thursday (9am-5:15pm) and Friday (9am-4:30pm).
Accommodation bookings are non-refundable.
Wivenhoe House Hotel: this 4-Star hotel and there are a limited number of rooms available which you can book either directly by contacting reservations@wivenhoehouse.co.uk or by finding the best available rates on different platforms.
Applications are now open for the Sick Normalities: Changing Practices, Changing Selves short course.
Complete the online form to submit your application.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/human-rights-and-local-government:
Six 90-minute modules on 7, 8, 9 and 14, 15, 16 May 2024
The Essex Human Rights Centre presents a live online course on Human Rights and Local Government.
This is a practical professional development course focused on the UK, and comprising six 90-minute modules over two consecutive weeks (3 sessions per week).
You will acquire concrete tools and skills to practice human rights at the local level.
You will also learn about valuable examples and techniques to advance human rights locally adapting universal values to local realities.
Please note that this course focuses on UK law and policy only.
Applications are now closed for this short course.
For enquiries about future events, please email summerschoolsandshortcourses@essex.ac.uk
The Human Rights and Local Government short course will be of particular interest to local government officials and councillors, local community groups, and anyone interested in local policy-development and human rights.
Taught by experienced practitioners and local authorities themselves, you will learn about human right standards, as well as best practices.
The course will examine relevant international law, but also domestic law in relation to equality and human rights.
The course is delivered online in six sessions of 90 minutes each on:
Session times are 4pm - 5.30pm UK time.
All participants who successfully complete the course will receive a University of Essex Human Rights Centre certificate.
The design of the course requires limiting enrolment to a set number of participants.
This course lasts nine hours, split across six sessions over two weeks.
All sessions run 4pm-5.30pm UK time.
Each module runs for 90 minutes.
Participants are advised to calculate additional time for reading before or after the sessions.
Koldo Casla is Senior Lecturer in International Law at the University of Essex.
He leads the Human Rights Local project of the Human Rights Centre of the same university, and he is the Director of Essex Human Rights Centre Clinic.
Previously, Dr Casla was Research Associate at the Institute of Health & Society of Newcastle University (2017-19), where he co-drafted the first Bill on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in the UK.
He was also Policy Director of the UK social rights NGO Just Fair (2016-19), independent researcher on social rights for Amnesty International Spain (2013-19), and Chief of Staff of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Parliament of the Basque Country, Ararteko (2011-13).
Among other publications, Dr Casla is the author of Politics of International Human Rights Law Promotion in Western Europe: Order versus Justice (Routledge 2019), and Spain and Its Achilles' Heels: The Strong Foundations of a Country's Weaknesses (Rowman & Littlefield 2021), and co-editor of Social Rights and the Constitutional Moment: Learning from Chile and International Experiences (Hart 2022) and The European Social Charter: A Commentary, Volume 3 (forthcoming Brill 2024).
Dr Koldo Casla is the course leader of Human Rights and Local Government.
Sanchita Hosali (CEO) has over two decades of experience working in human rights and equality law, policy and practice, both within the UK, in other countries, and at the international level.
Carlyn Miller (Head of Policy and Programmes) is a human rights policy professional with over 10 years’ experience of operationalising human rights in the commissioning, planning and delivery of public services across the UK, with a particular expertise in Scotland.
The British Institute of Human Rights (BIHR) is a charity working in communities across the UK to enable positive change through the practical use of human rights law beyond the courts, sharing this evidence of change, based on the law, and people's lived experiences, to inform legal and policy debates.
They work with people to provide the information they need to benefit from their rights; with community groups to advocate for social justice using human rights standards; and with staff across local and national public bodies and services to support them to make rights-respecting decisions.
This enables them to call for the development of law and policy which truly understands people’s experiences of their human rights.
Helen Flynn is Head of Policy, Research and Campaigns at Just Fair .
She holds an LLM in Human Rights and Criminal Justice from Queen’s University Belfast and has over ten years’ experience researching and campaigning on behalf of NGOs, community groups, and grassroots organisations towards the better realisation of human rights, with a particular focus on economic, social, and cultural rights.
Helen leads Just Fair’s work on the socio-economic duty.
Just Fair is the only UK-wide civil society org focusing on everyday human rights - economic, social, and cultural rights (ESCR) - in the UK.
Their goal is for ESCR to be incorporated into domestic law, and for the UK Government and public authorities to be effectively held to account in relation to their human rights obligations.
If successful, these rights will be better respected, protected and fulfilled, and everyone will be guaranteed the basic requirements of a decent life in which they can thrive, with dignity.
Neil is responsible for services in Newcastle that provide the foundations for all residents, including asylum seekers and refugees, to have more a stable life: somewhere to live, an income, financial inclusion, and employment opportunities.
Newcastle does this through an inclusive approach to providing information, advice, accommodation, and support to promote stability and prevent crisis.
Neil chaired the Eurocities Homelessness Group between 2009 and 2011.
Newcastle was the UK Government’s 2008 Regional Homelessness Champions and 2009 Regional Homelessness Champions and were asked to be an early adopter for the UK Government’s 2016 Homelessness Prevention Trailblazer programme.
In 2020 Newcastle City Council won the World Habitat 2020 Gold Award for their long term work on homelessness prevention.
In 2011 Neil was awarded an MBE for services to local government.
Session 1: Introduction -  Why do human rights matter in local government?
Instructor: Dr Koldo Casla, University of Essex
It is legally significant that human rights are recognised in international human rights treaties drafted, signed and ratified by States.
However, the real power of human rights lies in the way they influence policy and practice nationally, but also locally.
In this session, we will discuss why and how international human rights law matters for local government, even when international treaties may not have been incorporated into domestic (English) law.
We will also discuss the various motivations that different actors may have to comply with international human rights standards.
Session 2: Human rights duties of public authorities: Law, policy and best practice (I) Instructor: Sanchita Hosali and Carlyn Miller, The British Institute of Human Rights
This first of two sessions on the human rights duties on public authorities will explore the legal framework of the Human Rights Act and the range of duties this places on the bodies which wield public power that impacts people's lives in everyday ways.
We will understand who and what a public body is, in the ever-changing landscape of public service, policy, and accountability.
We will focus on the legal duties in section 6 and 3 of the Human Rights Act, together with the negative, positive, and procedural obligations in the rights themselves, and how these are used in practice.
Session 3: Human rights duties of public authorities: Law, policy and best practice (II) Instructor: Sanchita Hosali and Carlyn Miller, The British Institute of Human Rights
In our second session we will dig deeper into the real life practice, exploring how the Human Rights Act can be a tool for change to help build a culture of respect for human rights beyond the court rooms.
Focusing on public bodies in a range of everyday areas, such as health, care, social welfare, we will look at how human rights law can be levered by both duty-bearers and advocacy and community groups to secure rights respecting outcomes at a range of levels.
Session 4: The socio-economic duty: Bringing equality and human rights together Instructor: Helen Flynn, Just Fair
Over a decade since the UK Government brought in the Equality Act 2010, this session will examine how the potential of the Equality Act, and the socio-economic duty in particular (section 1 of the Equality Act), can be unlocked to better realise rights in Great Britain.
We will examine the links between equality and human rights, the socio-economic duty, and how this duty is being used across Scotland, Wales and at a local level in England to poverty-proof decision-making.
Session 5: A perspective from a local authority Instructor: Neil Munslow MBE, Newcastle City Council
This session will cover the role of the local state as the national state withdraws, considering the challenges and opportunities of rights-based approaches to reconciling differences in values between the national state and the local state.
This will consider the role of welfare safety net - should it be to catch people when they fall or to prevent people from falling.
This means also considering the cost effectiveness of gatekeeping, prevention and crisis-based approaches.
Newcastle has focused on prevention, on awarding Newcastle with the World Habitat 2020 Gold Award the judging panel said: “Newcastle’s approach has prevented over 24,000 households from becoming homeless since 2014.
Poverty and deprivation were already long-standing issues in the city before a decade-long programme of austerity.
There are things others can learn from this project, in particular linking housing, homelessness, the voluntary sector, social care, and welfare – there’s no way you can end homelessness unless you make those links.”
In the sessions we will focus on ways to make a material difference to people experiencing disadvantage, through:
Session 6: Human Rights Cities and localizing human rights Instructor: Dr Koldo Casla, University of Essex
This session will bring the whole course together.
We will share reflections on duties and good practices learned in previous sessions.
We will also explore the idea and the practice of Human Rights Cities, i.e., cities and towns all over the world that have made a formal commitment to apply human rights proactively with their local policies.
We will also learn what it means to localise human rights, to adapt human rights to local contexts to make them more meaningful for the community.
This course will be of particular interest to local government officials and councillors, local community groups, and anyone interested in local policy-development and human rights.
Please note, to take part in the Human Rights and Local Government course you will need access to a laptop/computer and have a reliable internet connection.
Applications for this short course are now closed.
Applications for the Human Rights and Local Government Short Course are now open!

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/understanding-the-complexities-of-working-online:
The University of Essex presents a training programme which will explore the dynamics, challenges, and opportunities of working online.
Leading and working in a virtual world means not only working with technology but also working at a distance with virtual group dynamics which are affected by beliefs and assumptions we have about ourselves and our organisations.
The thoughts and actions of individuals in our teams can be harder to understand in virtual work environments and leading and working with others is a greater challenge.
This training is 24 hours in total and takes place in an online live format on the following dates: May 7 and May 8 2025 from 1pm to 5pm (UK time) on both days May 14 and May 15 2025 from 1pm to 5pm (UK time) on both days May 21 and May 22 2025 from 1pm to 5pm (UK time) on both days
The fee for this training is £525.
Kalina Stamenova , PhD, is an academic, researcher and organisational consultant at the University of Essex.
Her research interests involve the psychoanalytic understanding of groups and organisations and researching the hidden dynamics of online work and she has recently contributed a chapter on The Effects of Hybrid Work – Leading by the Screen in Leading with Depth edited by Claudia Nagel.
As an organisational consultant, Kalina has worked for global organisations such as Cambridge University Press and with clients in the not-for-profit sector, higher education and creative industries.
She is a member of the Organisation of Promoting Understanding of Society (OPUS) and the International Society for the Psychoanalytic Study of Organisations (ISPSO).
Kalina is the book review editor for the Journal of Organisational and Social Dynamics.
This training is 24 hours in total and takes place in an online live format on the following dates: May 7 and May 8 2025 from 1pm to 5pm (UK time) on both days May 14 and May 15 2025 from 1pm to 5pm (UK time) on both days May 21 and May 22 2025 from 1pm to 5pm (UK time) on both days How do we work through challenging team dynamics at a distance?
How do humans, organisations and technology interact with each other?
What is going on ‘under the surface’ in our virtual teams?
The training we offer will address these challenges through a combination of theoretical and experiential learning to enable participants to understand better the dynamics of teams and leadership in virtual worlds.
The assessment for this training will be in the form of a reflective essay of 300 words.
After the training participants will be able to:
All participants who successfully complete the course will receive a Certificate of Completion issued by the University of Essex.
There are no formal admission requirements, but the recommended language level is B2/C1 as this training is delivered entirely in English.
The content of this training is specifically tailored to professionals interested in developing better understanding and skills of leading teams and working online.
Examples of job roles that would be well-suited to this programme include: Educators, entrepreneurs, leaders, managers, coaches, facilitators, and management trainers.
Students and academics with an interest in this area may also apply.
To apply please complete the steps below:
Please note, to fully take part in this training, you will need access to a laptop/computer with a stable internet connection and functioning video and audio connections.
For any payment issues or queries, please contact summerschoolsandshortcourses@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/taming-your-imposter:
The University of Essex presents a practical, skills-based group coaching course where participants will work with a coach to confront their imposter, gain self-awareness about their identity, develop greater self-acceptance and take positive actions for lasting change.
Do you doubt your skills and competence?
Maybe you have an intense fear of failure?
Are you low on self-confidence?
Do you set yourself impossibly high standards beyond reach?
Or perhaps you credit your success to external factors, such as luck?
Has this impacted your leadership and how you interact with your team?
Everyone experiences impostor syndrome slightly differently, but if you have answered ‘yes’ to one or more of those questions, then come and explore how you can start to take some positive steps to free yourself from your imposter and develop a plan of action to live the life you deserve.
Through reflective exercises, we will explore leadership and what might be holding us back.
We will explore how we can develop truly authentic leadership and become the leaders we aspire to be.
You will develop tools to free yourself from imposter syndrome and lead from the heart, not just the head.
We will also look at what our new-found superpowers might mean for the teams we lead.
This course takes a group coaching approach, offering lots of opportunities for self-reflection and deep thinking while providing practical strategies to move forward.
You will leave with a clear plan of action to take your next steps with confidence.
This course will take place in a group, online live for 3-hours from 9am to 12pm (UK time) on 3 March 2025.
The fee for this course is £210.
For enquiries, please contact: summerschoolsandshortcourses@essex.ac.uk .
Ritta Husted is a senior academic at the University of Essex, linguist and coach.
She is an experienced educator who places her students at the very centre of her teaching.
She is an Accredited Psychological Coach working with clients on gaining the clarity needed to take bold and brave decisions.
Her approach is the evidence-based Cognitive Behavioural Coaching approach which allows her clients to examine not only their thinking but also the impact their emotions have on their performance or well-being.
She specialises in Leadership and Career Coaching and works with leaders and their teams to provide opportunities to establish shared values and work on the psychological safety needed to thrive at work whilst at the same time deliver for the organisation.
She delivers Academic Coaching Conversation training to academics to support the personal tutoring offering and helps students to become active participants in their own learning.
This course will give you an opportunity to explore five common types of imposter syndrome and develop some skills which will enable you to acknowledge your imposter but not let it define who you are.
Taming your impostor is not about ignoring how you are feeling, but to acknowledge those feelings and check if they are based in reality; the best way to fight impostor syndrome is to separate your feelings from the facts.
Through a Cognitive Behavioural Coaching approach, you will be invited to work with a challenge you are currently facing and start to take some action.
For long-lasting results, you will develop a toolkit for future use.
Participants should bring one or two examples of goals, or problems, they are struggling with, to the course for them to work with and develop an action plan.
They should also be prepared to revisit a success they had in the past.
This course is designed for p rofessional women (both young professionals and senior experts), as well as female students and staff from all universities.
Applications to the coaching course are now open, to apply complete the steps below:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/law-and-technology:
22 April 2025 to 2 May 2025
The Essex Law School presents The Law and Technology: ‘Human Rights in the Digital Age’ short course which consists of 9 seminars of 90 minutes each over 2 weeks.
Applications to the The Law and Technology: ‘Human Rights in the Digital Age’ short course have now closed.
Digital technology, is a dynamic field which is a rapidly changing, and is increasingly prevalent in our lives.
Its impact and regulation are critical issues for scholars, practitioners, policy makers, and students.
Led by Dr Giulia Gentile, Professor Audrey Guinchard, and Dr Matthew Gillett, the Law and Technology: ‘Human Rights in the Digital Age’ short course takes place in an online, live interactive format.
The course will address new opportunities and challenges in relation to Digital Technology, AI, Law and Society.
It will look at current and emerging challenges in digital regulation (social media platforms, AI regulation, data regulation).
The course has been crafted with input from University of Essex’s world-leading Human Rights Centre.
Topics include:
Please complete your application and submit payment by 30 March 2025.
Please get in touch for details of further discounts that are available for organisations wishing to enrol participants in bulk.
This course is a total of 13.5 hours, split across 9 sessions of 90 minutes.
Here is a summary of the course’s programme.
All sessions are 17:00 – 18:30 UK time
The advancement of AI is capturing public imaginaries and raises novel legal questions.
This session will offer an overview of the interplay between digital technologies, with a focus on AI, and human rights.
It will address the following questions: what is digitisation, and how does it interact with the law?
How does digitisation, and especially artificial intelligence, affect human rights?
AI can have a significant impact on fundamental legal entitlements.
For instance, it can be used in the form of facial recognition technology for border controls, or as algorithms to process claims for social benefits.
This session will explore the legal frameworks on human rights protection, as well as emerging international law instruments governing AI technologies in a human rights context.
Students will critically assess the effectiveness of those frameworks, and the challenges linked to the enforcement of human rights against AI systems.
With the emergence of AI and the growing ubiquity of social media platforms, balancing online safety and freedom of expression is more topical than ever.
The human right to freedom of expression is a universally recognised human right, which is axiomatic for the functioning of democratic society.
However, exceptions are permitted to this right, and governments are increasingly seeking to have social media companies take responsibility for harms caused online on their platforms.
This session will explore the legal and human rights frameworks governing online expression and safety and examine the ways in which new technologies are testing previous legal approaches in this area.
AI can challenge the basics of data protection rules which were created to reduce the risks data processing creates to privacy.
We will use real-life case studies to understand whether and how AI can be a threat to privacy and whether the legal framework of data protection can effectively curb risks to privacy.
The answers may well surprise you: it’s not just the law that can be the problem!
Criminal justice has been revolutionised by the introduction of new technology in the past, most notably through DNA identification in recent decades.
AI and digital technologies portend similar systemic adjustments, with potential threats to human rights.
They encompass not only new forms of evidence but also novel means of recalibrating the functioning of criminal justice from arrests on the streets to the courtroom to incarceration centres.
Predictive justice presents the starkest manifestation of this new frontier.
Earth’s natural environment faces a myriad threats in the 21st Century.
Technology, and particularly AI, can assist to redress those challenges.
Their advances are important for international environmental justice, as they permit remote sensing and analysis, including for use by institutions turning their focus to environmental threats, such as the International Criminal Court.
Conversely, digital technology and AI are rapidly increasing their ecological footprint and may generate non-ecocentric solutions.
We will draw on these multiple facets to understand the potential benefits and challenges of AI and digital technology for the protection of nature.
AI is trained with data that pre-exists and thus reflects human past decisions or conducts.
As a result, AI may draw inferences from and replicate data that can contains bias.
Scandals such as the Amazon’s employment tool that was discriminating women or various algorithms used by the police and issuing arrest decisions against minorities are examples of the bias problem affecting AI.This session will analyse selected case studies and will critically reflect on how to tackle the bias challenge in AI and algorithmic systems.
AI tools are deployed to substitute tasks carried out by workers and professionals.
They are also increasingly used to support the provision of services through AI-driven platforms.
As a result, fears in the job market are mounting.
Is AI going to take over human jobs?
This session will evaluate the implications of AI in the labour market and the protections for workers in the AI era.
The Cambridge Analytica scandal is but one example of the ability of algorithms and social media to influence the democratic life of countries across the world.
Algorithms and artificial intelligence can also shape democracy by facilitating the spreading deepfakes of prominent political figures, or by allowing the creation of fake images with a manipulated politically charged content.
This session will address the following question: what legal guarantees should be in place to ensure that AI and digital technologies do not undermine democracy?
Participants are advised to calculate additional time for reading and homework as each session requires about an hour of preparation material, including short readings, assessments, and reflective questions.
The content of the course is specifically tailored to professionals (including in the human rights and/or technology sectors) looking to increase their knowledge of issues at the intersection of digital technology and human rights.
The course is also suited to recently graduated students looking to obtain knowledge of digital technology and A.I.
Please note, to take part in the short course virtually you will need access to a laptop/computer and have a reliable internet connection.
For any payment issues or queries, please contact summerschoolsandshortcourses@essex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/health-and-social-care/cpd:
Here in the School of Health and Social Care , we offer CPPD pathways and modules to enable you to continue your personal and professional development, building your knowledge, skills, and professional practice.
Our portfolio of courses offers flexible study options; we have pathway Master's programmes that are modular and enable you to build to a postgraduate degree - with step off along the way if needed.
Modules can also be taken as standalone.
Our courses are developed in partnership with local providers of health and social care, aligning with the current priorities in the NHS workforce.
All our programmes will enable you to think critically about your professional area, to apply the latest research, explore new areas and advance your practice.
We work in partnership with local providers, commissioning groups, and others, to deliver the academic qualifications and training needed in today's complex health and care services.
If there is a module you would like to undertake, or programme you are interested in starting, you can apply with the relevant form , or email us ( cpd@essex.ac.uk ) to confirm the current status of your chosen module.
Where modules do not have a current start date, we will be maintaining a waiting list of candidates and will get in contact when a start date has been confirmed.
Looking to undertake professional development whilst working?
You might be interested in one of our apprenticeships.
We offer a range of levels and career paths - find out more on our apprenticeship pages .
Did you know we offer short-term accommodation throughout our spring and summer terms?
If you are considering staying locally whilst completing one of our CPD courses, you should check out our accommodations options.
You can download our module calendar 2025-26 (.docx)
Available modules from Essex Business School:
CPD pathways and modules in musculoskeletal practice are offered by our School of Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences .
Returning to full-time education doesn't suit everyone, so we've created flexible CPD learning pathways that allow you to stack modules to build your own qualification.
We have both undergraduate and postgraduate pathways available, allowing you to pick modules that match your professional needs.
You'll find that how our modules are delivered varies (e.g.
on campus, online, etc), and when they are delivered, so you can plan your studying around your existing commitments.
You can take the following pathways:
View our pathways map to find out more about how you can build modules towards an undergraduate or postgraduate qualification.
These modular pathways are not currently eligible for funding from Student Finance.
Take a look at other funding options that may be available to you.
If you've taken a look already through our CPD courses but can't find something that 'ticks the box', then something bespoke may be more appropriate.
We have a wide range of clinical and academic health and social care expertise within our School, which means we're well placed to offer specialist workshops and bespoke training in addition to our existing portfolio of modules and pathways.
If you have an idea in mind of what you are looking for, then please get in touch ( cpd@essex.ac.uk ) to discuss it further.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/sport-rehabilitation-and-exercise-sciences/cpd:
We know you might not have time to for a full-time degree, so we've created a system of flexible CPD learning pathways in musculoskeletal practice and sonography.
The structure, mode of delivery and level of support you receive on our CPD pathways ensures that you acquire attributes and skills which enhance your professional practice.
We offer several postgraduate pathways:
Available at Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma or Masters level:
We also offer Postgraduate Certificates in the following:
In addition our range of CPD modules can be taken as single courses.
Different modules may have different fees (.docx), if you have any questions please email Sophie Young at msk@essex.ac.uk .
You can view our online module calendar to find all dates relating to courses starting from October 2025.
Alternatively  you can download our 2025-2026 CPD module calendar (.PDF).
Once you have chosen the programme you wish to undertake please completed the application form ( Word version ) and email it to Sophie Young at msk@essex.ac.uk .
For accreditation information about our musculoskeletal ultrasound imaging courses please see the course pages listed below.
Part of this pathway will include a mentorship with a clinical supervisor .
We have also developed non-UK courses for international applicants who wish to undertake a qualification in MSK ultrasound imaging.
This pathway supports clinicians from a range of professional backgrounds to access musculoskeletal ultrasound imaging.
Students engage with the technical considerations that underpin this imaging modality prior to musculoskeletal scanning protocols.
This face to face teaching occurs at weekends at the Colchester campus.
Students need a mentor to complete the clinical learning components of this pathway.
The pathway includes optional modules covering ultrasound guided injections or service evaluation.
We offer three qualifications in this pathway, depending on the total number of "credits" you undertake:
For health professionals outside the UK we also offer qualifications on MSK Ultrasound Imaging.
You will develop the necessary skills while continuing professional practice in your country.
‘The British Association of Hand Therapists (BAHT) has developed an accreditation process of hand therapists’ learning and experience, leading to the award of ‘Accredited Hand Therapist.’
Hand therapists may develop their knowledge and skills via BAHT validated courses at HEIs and independent education.
Points awarded can be accrued to meet the requirements of the Accredited Hand Therapist award, for further information see BAHT website .
For accreditation information for the PG Certificate, please see the course page below.
Additionally, some of the component modules of the MSc and PG Diploma awards are accredited by BAHT.
This pathway enables experienced clinicians in the field of Hand Therapy to advance their practice, extend their clinical skills and explore service delivery issues within the field of hand therapy.
Clinicians will also learn the skill of soft tissue and joint injection therapy.
The pathway is aligned with Health Education England's framework for advanced clinical practice, (the Postgraduate Diploma and MSc include all four pillars of advanced clinical practice, education, research and leadership).
You can finish this pathway with one of three qualifications, depending on how many credits you complete:
This course will enable an experienced musculoskeletal clinicians to gain academic recognition for their continuing professional development.
This course is run through "credit accumulation".
This means that, apart from a few core modules for the Diploma and MSc, students will be able to direct their learning to topics of personal interest through a broader choice of module options.
All students will engage in material related to clinical decision making and there are options available to advance clinical skills including injection therapy and independent prescribing.
This Post-graduate Certificate enables experienced musculoskeletal clinicians to gain academic recognition for their First Contact Practitioner training.
The content has been aligned with guidance from all national and professional groups involved in the development and delivery of this role.
The first module ( SE761: First Contact Musculoskeletal Practice ) has been designed to map to Stage 1 requirements of Health Education England's 'Roadmap to Practice', and the second module ( SE786: Evaluation of Clinical Practice for First Contact Musculoskeletal Practitioners ) evidences the Stage 2 clinical competencies.
Students will explore topics relating to FCP practice including communication strategies, screening for sinister pathology, integration of the wider determinants of health, operational issues and professional accountability.
A clinical mentor is required to support the clinical learning but this mentor does not need to be 'Roadmap trained’.
We currently offer one qualification in First Contact Musculoskeletal Practice:
Along with our pathways, we also offer our modules on a single basis.
Once you have chosen a specific module please complete an application form and email it to msk@essex.ac.uk addressed to Sophie Young.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/faculty-of-science-and-health/short-courses:
We have worked in collaboration with partners including Suffolk County Council and East Suffolk and North Essex NHS Foundation Trust (ESNEFT) to develop short courses that support digital skills that focus on digital transformation through the use of data.
These new short courses are part of an Office for Students (OfS) funded pilot project to deliver flexible courses that expand digital skillsets in data science and analysis.
The courses are designed with input from employers to ensure they deliver the key skills required within industry.
Whether you currently work in a data science field, or you are looking for a career change and would like to gain the skills required to start your career as a data scientist, one (or more!) of these courses may be just what you are looking for.
Through a combination of self-directed study and periods of supervised learning in our labs, you will gain a solid grounding in your chosen area of study.
We have created them to be as accessible as possible.
You do not need any experience of computer science or mathematics beyond basic numeracy.
We are currently offering the following short courses:
While these courses can be taken as stand-alone courses, they are credit-bearing which means they can contribute towards credits needed for a recognised qualification in the future.
You may be eligible for a Higher Education Short Courses Loan to cover the tuition fee for these courses.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/social-science-data-analysis:
Our 58th annual summer school will offer a combination of in-person and online courses.
The Essex Summer School in Social Science Data Analysis provides world-leading social science methods training to postgraduate research students by offering instruction from an internationally renowned faculty, drawn from the world's top research institutions.
The core Summer School consists of three two-week sessions.
Applications for our 2025 Summer School are now live.
To apply please visit our dedicated Website .
For enquiries, please contact : essexsummerschoolssda@essex.ac.uk
Essex Summer School in Social Science Data Analysis on social media:
The Essex Summer School in Social Science Data Analysis provides intensive social science methods training with instruction from an internationally renowned faculty.
Operating since 1967, the Summer School has served as a connection between social science communities throughout the world.
Each year, we receive over 500 students from all social science disciplines from over 50 countries.
Courses cover various types of quantitative and qualitative research methods, research design, techniques for data collection and measurement as well as mathematics.
In person courses will be held at our Colchester campus.
Online study is not available for these courses.
Students are encouraged to bring with them their own laptops when undertaking a course in person.
If the use of a personal laptop is required for participation, this is stated on the course’s information page and should be taken into consideration at the time of application.
Online courses will be taught via the video conferencing software Zoom.
Participants therefore must have access to their own computing facilities in the form of a laptop or desktop PC.
This should include adequate audio and visual equipment in the form of a webcam (built in or detachable), as well as a reliable internet connection to enable full participation in the online sessions.
Please do check in advance the minimum bandwidth and operating systems required to use Zoom.
Unless otherwise noted, live online class meetings will be recorded and made available to enrolled students during and for a limited period after the course concludes.
If instructors are not allowing recording, this will be indicated on the course page on the website.
Please check individual course pages for details and take this into consideration when applying.
In person study is not available for these courses.
Hybrid courses are available for study either in person or online.
Hybrid delivery of courses will include synchronous live sessions during which on campus and online students will be taught simultaneously.
If participating online, please note whether recordings will be made available and take this into consideration before submitting an application.
The above IT requirements should also be noted.
For in person study, students are encouraged to bring with them their own laptops.
Courses are 35 hours over 2 weeks unless otherwise stated.
The Essex Summer School offers an intensive learning environment.
Each course consists of three and a half hours of teaching per day.
Participants are advised to calculate additional time for readings and homework.
For information on specific courses please refer to the 2025 course list overview .
ECTS Course credit will still be available for courses when taking the Single Course Exam .
Along with our courses, we will be offering opportunities to enhance students’ ESS experience outside of the classroom.
These will include presentations from internationally renowned experts in social science methodology as part of our Speaker Series, as well as opportunities to network with fellow ESS participants.
Courses take place in mornings or afternoons, British Summer Time (BST).
The language of instruction of this summer school is English.
For those participating in online courses, participants must have access to their own computing facilities in the form of a laptop or desktop PC.
This should include adequate audio and visual equipment in the form of a webcam (built in or detachable), as well as a reliable internet connection to enable full participation in the online sessions over Zoom.
For best learning success, participants should have the background knowledge necessary to follow a course.
The instructors’ specifications of the prior knowledge expected of participants appear in the course descriptions for each session.
This will also include any specialised requirements, such as computing knowledge, although basic knowledge of computing is essential.
Participants can refresh and enhance their mathematics knowledge in an intensive course, Mathematics for Social Scientists, which is provided free of charge for participants of the Summer School.
Instructors will assume that everyone doing their course has the required background knowledge and reserve the right to exclude a participant who does not have the required background.
Anyone who is uncertain about whether a course is appropriate for their needs or their background should contact the Summer School office for advice.
Fees differ by length of course and there is a discounted fee for participants from academic institutions and non-profit organisations.
For a more detailed breakdown please view our course fees
Applicants wishing to apply should complete the online application form.
We will continue to take applications until notice of application closure is posted.
We strongly recommend early applications as courses can fill up quickly and many will become unavailable by May.
All applicants also need to check our website for up-to-date information on course availability.
On receipt of the application, the Summer School office will send applicants an invoice for the amount due.
At this point, either full payment or a non-refundable £50 deposit needs to be paid to secure your place.
Full payment must then be paid by the date provided to you with your invoice.
Places on courses cannot be guaranteed if payment has not been received in full by this date.
There are two options for payment: online payment or bank transfer.
Essex PG students need to apply via Proficio, in addition to completing the application form.
Please contact the summer school office with all queries by emailing essexsummerschoolssda@essex.ac.uk .
Situated in the grounds of Wivenhoe Park, our campus accommodation is situated just a few minutes away from ESS’s academic and administrative buildings, so residents can, for example, easily use their rooms between lectures to prepare a meal or take a coffee break.
All residences are equipped for self-catering and are provided with bed linen and hand towels.
There is a linen change once a week but participants are responsible for their own cleaning of the flat, particularly the shared kitchen facilities.
Computer network facilities are available in all accommodation.
Further information about our accommodation can be found on the ESS Website .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/psychosocial-and-psychoanalytic-studies/continuing-professional-development:
Many of our modules may be taken for continuing professional development purposes.
Our next conference, will be held 1 - 3 March 2024.
Study the unconscious life of groups from the inside.
This conference is an experiential and accelerated learning event which is suitable for anyone who works in groups or complex organisations, whether in intense business, therapeutic or social work settings, or emergency services, armed forces or HMPs.
The conference itself becomes a temporary organisational system in which individual, group and organisational dynamics can be explored live as they happen within a series of different group contexts each with its own set task.
While we are a temporary organisation, the conference is not a closed system since we all bring with us into the setting our familial and societal experiences of this period.
While the conference is an opportunity for individual and group learning it is also a chance to research and better understand our responses and relations to the period in which we live, or which lives in us.
Location: University of Essex Colchester Campus
Prices (excluding accommodation):
University of Essex Students/Staff - £550
External Attendees - £650
An early bird discount of £50 is available until 30 January 2024.
Accommodation can be booked separately via Event Essex.
MAZE is for you if you work with children and young people with Additional Needs (CAN) and, or, their families.
It provides insight into additional needs such as autism and understanding of the particular impact of such needs on children's experience of the world and their impact on those caring for them.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/qualitative-interviewing-and-analysis-using-maxqda:
The Department of Sociology and Criminology presents a two-day intensive qualitative research course, taught by one of the authors of the popular SAGE textbook ‘How to do Qualitative Interviewing ‘ and MAXQDA Professional Trainer.
The Qualitative Interviewing and analysis using MAXQDA short course is designed to equip participants with the skills and confidence to conduct their own research projects using qualitative interviews and then to analyse the resultant data using the software program MAXQDA.
The course is ideally suited to professionals who need to use qualitative interviewing techniques to gather information from service users, consumers, or citizens, with training focused on building rapport with others, asking open questions and active listening techniques.
The Qualitative Interviewing and analysis using MAXQDA short course will be held in person
over two days at our Colchester campus  and consists of a mixture of lectures, interactive exercises, and discussion sessions, as well as hands-on practical training in a computer-lab with the MAXQDA software on day 2.
Participants can chose between one or two day course
Tuesday 25 March 2025 - Introduction to Qualitative Interviewing
Wednesday 26 March 2025 - Analysis using MAXQDA
Applications to the Qualitative Interviewing and Analysis using MAXQDA have now closed.
For enquiries, please contact summerschoolsandshortcourses@essex.ac.uk
The fees for the Qualitative Interviewing and Analysis using MAXQDA course are:
Fee type
One Day
Two Days *
Commercial, External  Academic and Student Fee
£300
£550
Internal Student / Academic Fee
£200
£350
* All participants who take the two day course will receive a complimentary copy of the book ‘How to Do Qualitative Interviewing’ (Morgan Brett & Wheeler, 2022)
The course is ideally suited to people who need to build rapport and trust with others through the use of interviewing techniques.
We begin by outlining the sorts of research questions that are best addressed through qualitative interviews, touching on debates about the nature of qualitative data.
We then consider the practical considerations when undertaking a qualitative interview project–from ethical requirements through to selecting participants, choosing a location in which to conduct the interview and the sorts of things you ought to take with you into the field.
There will be practical exercises on designing qualitative interview questions and opportunities to practice key interview skills through interactive exercises.
Attention will be focused on the key skills that qualitative interviewers need to collect good quality data (including body language, asking open questions, probing, prompting and active listening).
The course runs from 9.30am to 5pm.
Once you have collected your interview data, you will then need to process and analyse it.
Many researchers use QDAS (Qualitative Data Analysis Software) to help them to manage this task, and you will be introduced to the popular package MAXQDA (see www.maxqda.com for more information) to achieve this.
This software is a useful tool for managing and organising data, for categorising and exploring this data, and aids the interrogation of data through visualisations and summarising functions.
We will cover the basics of setting up a new project in MAXQDA, coding and memoing, before moving on to some of the more advanced features such as visual tools, document variables and mixed method analysis.
The course will introduce and demonstrate the new ‘AI Assist’ feature (for generating summaries and code suggestions) and discuss some of the key considerations when using this tool.
Participants should bring some data or documents they are familiar with to help them to evaluate the usefulness of AI assist tools.
No prior knowledge of MAXQDA is required.
By the end of this course, participants will
This is an introductory course and no previous experience of qualitative methodology (either interviewing or familiarity with QDAS) is assumed.
The course is suitable for professionals seeking to learn how to create useful data through qualitative interviewing techniques and analyse this data using software.
It will also be suitable for academics and post-graduate students who need an introduction to qualitative approaches to data collection and analysis.
It is recommended that you come to the course with the MAXQDA software installed on your laptop, but you do not need to do so, as the training venue has Windows machines with the software installed on them.
The application form includes a brief questionnaire relating to your experience and credentials, which you are required to complete as part of your application.
Katy Wheeler is a Senior Lecturer in Sociology at The University of Essex.
She has extensive experience of conducting interviews and analysing qualitative data from interviews, focus groups, surveys and documents.
She is the co-author of the popular SAGE textbook How to do Qualitative Interviewing (2022) and is a MAXQDA Professional Trainer.
Her research interests are in the fields of sustainability and consumption, and she has published widely within leading academic journals and two monographs, Fair-Trade and the Citizen-Consumer: Shopping for Justice (Palgrave, 2012) and Recycling and Consumption Work: Social and moral economies (Palgrave, 2015).
She is currently pursuing a project on sustainability education.
Find out more about Dr Katy Wheeler by viewing her staff profile or LinkedIn page .
For queries, please contact summerschoolsandshortcourses@essex.ac.uk
Applications are now open for the Qualitative Interviewing and analysis using MAXQDA’.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/first-steps-in-data-literacy-exploring-crime-statistics:
The Department of Sociology and Criminology presents a one-day intensive quantitative research course.
This is an introductory one-day course designed to provide participants with the skills necessary to understand and critically evaluate quantitative information, including reports from the Office for National Statistics and academic literature on crime and policing.
The course will cover the core statistical concepts, starting with basic topics like descriptive statistics (mean, median) and progressing to more advanced subjects such as regression analysis.
Taught by an experienced quantitative researcher, this one-day program features a mix of lectures, interactive exercises, and discussion sessions.
Applications to this course have now closed.
Fee
The maximum number of participants for this course is 30.
2.00pm
The course runs from 9.45am to 5.15pm
By the end of this module, students should be able to…
Dr Giacomo Vagni is a lecturer at the University of Essex, specialising in quantitative research methods and data analysis.
He has extensive experience in conducting empirical data-driven research.
Vagni has a PhD in Sociology from the University of Oxford, where his thesis focused on daily life, family change, and inequality.
His research has been published in prestigious international and national academic journals, including The Proceeding of the Academy of Science, The British Journal of Sociology and The European Sociological Review.
Find out more about Dr Vagni by viewing his staff profile .
Applications to this short course have now closed.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/data-skills-courses:
The Essex Summer School (ESS) introduces a suite of professional development courses, developed in conjunction with public sector partners.
These courses have been specifically designed for professionals seeking to enhance their data analysis capabilities .
This training consists of three course clusters, each containing three two-day modules run over two consecutive days.
Sessions are delivered in a hybrid format and participants can enrol in individual modules, complete clusters of three modules, or the entire sequence;
Foundations of Data Literacy Excel-based skills for data literacy and basic analysis Module 1: Data Skills Foundations (April 10 & 11) Module 2: Data Analysis and Interpretation (April 16 & 17) Module 3: Communicating with Data (April 24 & 25)
Introduction to R and Basic Data Analysis Getting started with R programming and data analysis Module 4: Introduction to the R Environment (May 1 & 2) Module 5: Data Manipulation with R (May 8 & 9) Module 6: Basic Statistical Analysis in R (May 15 & 16)
Intermediate Statistics with R Advanced analytical techniques and visualisation methods Module 7: Data Visualisation with R (June 5 & 6) Module 8: Data Analysis and Modelling in R (June 12 & 13) Module 9: Advanced Data Types and Reporting Workflows in R (June 19 & 20)
The modules are designed to be interactive and practical, with emphasis on hands-on exercises.
Participants will have the opportunity to work with datasets, enabling them to develop skills to apply data-driven decision-making in various contexts.
Applications for the Data Skills Courses are open!
Please refer to the Essex Summer School webpages for application form and full course information.
To apply please refer to the Essex Summer School webpage s .
Please note that the deadline for applications is 5 March 2025 .
Build essential skills for working with data, including concepts, basic analysis, and effective reporting.
These modules are based on instruction in Microsoft Excel.
No previous background is needed.
Module 1 (April 10 & 11): Data Skills Foundations Covering essential concepts for working with data in Excel.
Module 2 (April 16 & 17): Data Analysis and Interpretation A first introduction to data analysis, including Excel fundamentals and basic statistics.
Module 3 (April 24 & 25): Communicating with Data Develop skills in creating effective visualisations and presenting data-driven stories.
Learn the basics of the powerful R statistical programming environment, along with the fundamentals of data manipulation and analysis.
Course A is not required but recommended for those with no previous experience in data analysis.
Module 4 (May 1 & 2): Introduction to the R Environment Get started with R programming through hands-on practice and basic data operations.
Module 5 (May 8 & 9): Data Manipulation with R Learn data transformation and validation techniques to prepare data for analysis.
Module 6 (May 15 & 16): Basic Statistical Analysis in R Apply statistical methods and create professional visualisations.
Intended for those who have taken course B above, these modules take your data skills to the next level with intermediate statistics using the R environment and more advanced visualisation, modelling, text processing, and automated reporting techniques.
Module 7 (June 5, 6): Data Visualisation with R Create advanced visualisations and interactive graphics using specialised R packages.
Module 8 (June 12, 13): Data Analysis and Modelling in R Explore regression analysis, time series, and predictive modelling techniques.
Module 9 (June 19, 20): Advanced Data Types and Reporting Workflows in R Master automated reporting and interactive dashboards using R Markdown.
Each module is scheduled to run from 10 am to 5 pm on the date specified.
Full details on module content can be found on the Essex Summer School webpages
Foundations of Data Literacy (Modules 1-3) equips participants with essential data literacy skills, enabling them to collect, manage, analyse, and effectively communicate data insights using Microsoft Excel, while adhering to best practices in data management.
These Modules are designed for professionals and decision-makers who need to build fundamental data literacy skills, including those in management, policy, or operational roles who work with data but have limited technical experience.
Introduction to R and Basic Data Analysis (Modules 4-6) develops practical programming competencies in R, enabling students to perform fundamental statistical analyses, manipulate datasets, and create basic visualizations using industry-standard tools and workflows.
Suitable for individuals who are comfortable with basic data concepts and seek to develop technical programming skills, including analysts, researchers, and professionals transitioning to more data-intensive roles.
Intermediate Data Analysis with R (Modules 7-9) advances participants' analytical capabilities through mastery of complex statistical modelling, advanced visualization techniques, and professional reporting workflows, preparing them for sophisticated data analysis projects and automated reporting in organizational contexts.
These Modules are ideal for practitioners with basic R programming experience who aim to advance their statistical modelling and automated reporting capabilities, including data analysts, research officers, and professionals who need to implement sophisticated data analysis workflows in their organizations.
Applications for our Data Skills Courses can be made via the Essex Summer School webpages where you will find the application form as well as full course information and terms and conditions.
Application closing dates:
Foundations of Data Literacy – Monday, 7 April 2025 Introduction to R – Monday, 28 April Intermediate Statistics with R – Monday, 2 June 2025

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/essex-accounting-and-global-development-school:
The Essex Accounting and Global Development School proposes a cutting-edge, 3-week online programme designed to address the unique accounting and development challenges and opportunities faced by non-Western economies.
The programme is tailored to equip participants with the knowledge and skills needed to navigate and influence key industries, public sector roles, and non-governmental organisations effectively.
Applicants can chose from the Modules below;
Week one
Week two
Week three
All participants who successfully complete the Essex Accounting and Global Development School  will receive a University of Essex, Centre for Accountability and Global Development certificate for the full course or a modular certificate of completion if undertaking individual modules.
Key features include:
The fees for the Essex Accounting and Global Development School are below;
Unfortunately, we are unable to offer scholarships for this Autumn School.
However, further discounts may be available for organisations sending five or more participants.
For more details, please get in touch.
What you’ll get:
Our interactive live sessions are conducted via Zoom, providing you with a dynamic and engaging learning experience from anywhere in the world.
Interactive tools such as discussion forums, polls, and breakout rooms for group activities will all be used.
Miss a session?
Many of our sessions will be recorded and made available to all enrolled participants.
Public Sector Accountability Delivered by Dr.
Junaid Ashraf
Date: 8 September 2025 I Teaching hours: 9am -12pm (BST)
Key topics:
Budgeting and financial reporting in public institutions.
Evaluating accountability in public service delivery.
Case studies on governance reforms in non-Western countries.
Learning Outcome: Participants will learn to assess and improve financial accountability in public institutions.
Sustainability Accounting Delivered by Dr.
Bedanand Upadhaya
Date: 11 September 2025 I Teaching hours: 9am -12pm (BST)
The role of accounting in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Corporate social responsibility (CSR), social and environmental accounting.
Circular economy and responsible supply chains.
Sustainability accounting and reporting
Learning outcome: Participants will gain insights on the importance of CSR, SDGs and sustainability accounting and reporting.
Extractive Industries Accounting Delivered by Professor Henry Agyei-Boapeah
Date: 15 September 2025 I Teaching Hours: 9am -12pm (BST)
Revenue and earnings management in resource-rich countries.
The role of accounting in preventing resource mismanagement and corruption.
Practical tools like the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and the governance architecture that can be employed for efficient use of resources.
Learning outcome: Participants will understand the accountability mechanisms and challenges in resource extraction and management.
Microfinance and Development Delivered by Professor Thankom Arun
Date: 17 September 2025 I Teaching hours: 9am -12pm (BST)
The financial structure of microfinance institutions (MFIs).
Measuring impact and financial sustainability of MFIs.
Accountability challenges in lending to underprivileged communities.
Learning Outcome: Participants will gain practical knowledge of accounting tools to enhance transparency and impact in microfinance.
Governance and Accountability in Global Development Delivered by Professor Shahzad Uddin
Date: 18 September 2025 I Teaching hours: 9am -12pm (BST)
The interplay between governance, accountability, and development goals.
How accounting drives transparency in public and private institutions.
Accountability challenges in fragile and conflict-affected states.
Learning outcome: Participants will learn to design and critique accountability frameworks suited for global development contexts.
Accounting in the Era of Artificial Intelligence Delivered by Dr.
Ricardo Malagueno De Santana
Date: 22 September 2025 I Teaching hours: 9am -12pm (BST)
Exploring Artificial intelligence applications.
Python for data analytics.
Risks and ethical considerations in technological adoption.
Learning outcome: Participants will explore how technology can enhance transparency and efficiency in accounting practices.
By the end of the programme, participants will:
Are you a postgraduate student, academic, researcher, or practitioner in corporate, NGO, government, or international organisations?
Do you want to explore cutting-edge ideas and engage with global experts?
The Essex Accounting and Global Development School is designed to equip you with critical insights and practical skills to navigate complex global challenges.
This program is ideal for those looking to deepen their understanding of accountability, governance, and global development in non-Western economies.
To get the most out of the sessions, we recommend reviewing the provided course instructions and reading lists beforehand.
If you're unsure whether this program is right for you, we’re here to help!
Contact the Essex Accounting and Global Development School team at snuddin@essex.ac.uk for advice.
Join us and be part of a global learning community shaping the future of accounting and development!
Applications to the Essex Accounting and Global Development School are now open!
To apply, please complete the steps below:
All applications and payments must be finalised by 3 September 2025 to ensure access to the course materials.
We look forward to welcoming you to the 2025 Essex Accounting and Global Development School!
Applications for the Essex Accounting and Global Development School are now open.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/business-summer-school:
Expand Your Knowledge | Gain Practical Skills | Experience the UK
The Essex Business School (EBS)  is excited to launch a two-week intensive Summer programme designed for students eager to explore AI in marketing or sustainability in business.
Participants can chose between one of two cutting edge topics:
AI in Marketing: Transforming Strategies for the Digital Era
Business Sustainability: Driving Innovation for a Sustainable Future
What to Expect from the Summer Sessions?
Application to the Essex Business Summer School Sessions 2025 are now closed.
This module explores the transformative role of AI in shaping modern marketing strategies.
Designed for undergraduate students, the course delves into how AI empowers marketers to personalise experiences, gain deep consumer insights, optimise content, and measure campaign effectiveness.
Students will learn about key AI applications in areas such as predictive analytics, customer relationship management, programmatic advertising, and social media marketing.
The module balances theoretical foundations with practical insights, equipping students to navigate the ethical and societal challenges of AI in marketing.
Topics include the ethical implications of AI-driven campaigns, privacy concerns, and the potential biases in AI algorithms.
Through case studies, students will critically examine the benefits and risks of leveraging AI tools.
By the end of the module, students will have a comprehensive understanding of how AI is reshaping the marketing landscape and be prepared to implement innovative and ethical AI-driven strategies.
Module Aims
A full teaching timetable will be provided to students nearer the course date.
The following learning and teaching methods will inform the pedagogical process of the course: lectures, seminars.
Interactive lectures: each session will combine foundational theory with real-world examples of AI applications in marketing.
Seminars will focus on practical aspects of using the material taught in lectures for solving real-life problems.
You are required to work on a mini project on any aspect of AI and its applications in marketing.
You will be required to work in groups and present your project in the final session of the module.
The group projects will be rated and there is a best group presentation award to be won!
Each project will be judged on critical analysis and clarity of the presentation.
Dr Abhisek Kuanr is a Lecturer in Marketing at Essex Business School, University of Essex, UK.
His research and teaching focus is on the intersection of marketing and technology, with a particular emphasis on Artificial Intelligence (AI), consumer behaviour, and digital marketing.
Dr Kuanr is passionate about exploring how AI-driven technologies are reshaping the marketing landscape and empowering businesses to engage with consumers in innovative and personalised ways.
Sustainability represents a critical imperative for business leaders, managers, and entrepreneurs in today’s interconnected global economies.
In a world increasingly shaped by environmental, social, and governance (ESG) concerns, the shift from traditional business practices to sustainable and ethical models offers profound opportunities to drive long-term value while addressing global challenges such as climate change, resource depletion, and social inequality.
Emerging frameworks, tools, and technologies, including Artificial Intelligence (AI), enable organisations to measure, analyse, and enhance their sustainability performance across supply chains, operations, and stakeholder networks.
This module aims to equip students with the knowledge and skills to integrate sustainability principles into business strategies and operations.
Students will learn to identify key sustainability challenges, leverage AI-driven tools and analytical frameworks to assess organisational and environmental impacts, and design actionable strategies for sustainable transformation.
By exploring how information technologies, such as predictive analytics and machine learning, can optimise resource use and environmental performance, students will develop a forward-looking perspective on sustainability.
The module will also include case studies and practical applications across various business functions, demonstrating how sustainability, complemented by technologies, can drive innovation and competitive advantage in the modern business landscape.
The module aims to provide the students with the following:
As part of your assessment, you will undertake a group-based mini-project focused on a specific aspect of sustainability and its practical applications in business.
In the final session of the module, you will present your findings and recommendations to the class.
Projects will be evaluated based on the depth of analysis, the relevance of solutions proposed, and the effectiveness of the presentation.
The best group presentation will be recognised with an award.
Dr Wenjuan Zeng is a Lecturer in the Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship Group (SOE).
Dr Zeng’s research interests lie in the areas of (1) Operations and Supply Chain Management and (2) Technology Management.
Much of her research integrates these two fields, focusing on the application, integration, capability development, and impact of digital technologies on operations and supply chain quality management.
Find out about fees, accommodation, and our Essex Business School Summer Sessions social programme;
Please note that applicants must be 18 years or older at the time of the programme.
All applicants are required to hold an English language qualification IELTS 5.5 or equivalent.
£900 per module
On-campus accommodation options are available from £45 per night
Rooms are self-catered with ensuite or shared facilities.
Price includes utilities, internet access, and 24/7 security.
Please note that accommodation is NOT included in the tuition fee.
Included in the Programme Fee:
Optional Extras - Not Included in the Programme Fee:
At Essex Business School , we do more than teach business—we challenge conventions, drive innovation, and inspire the next generation of global leaders.
As one of the UK’s top business schools, Essex Business School is known for its:
Applications to the Essex Business School Summer Sessions are now closed.
For queries, please contact studyabroad@essex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/short-courses/programmes-for-partners:
Whether you are looking for a credit-bearing, purely academic programme or an immersive cultural UK university experience, Essex can create the perfect customised programme, tailored to your needs.
We are able to create bespoke programmes with our expert, world-leading academic staff from across our three faculties:
If you opt for an on-campus programme, we can offer single, private rooms with ensuites, 5 minutes from the amenities of central campus.
South Courts is located just a 5-minute walk from the centre of campus where you will find the Library, SU bar, SU Shop, eatery outlets and plenty more.
It is also only a 2-minute walk to our gym and other sports facilities located on the edge of the University campus.
This accommodation is the perfect balance between your academic studies and social life.
As well as fascinating modules, you can also have the opportunity to discover first-hand what it is like to live and study in the east of England, with excursions to a variety of historical, small traditional towns, amazing attractions and the bustling British capital.
We can also help arrange:
If you are interested in creating a Tailor-made Programme at Essex, please complete our programme information form and we will be in touch shortly.
We hope this has provided you with lots of useful information, but you’ll no doubt have lots more questions.
If you have a query, or want to chat about our programmes at Essex, get in touch – we’d love to hear from you.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/international/applying-to-essex:
In addition to details of how to apply, we will talk you through the international fees you need to pay, and the funding available; our degree preparation programmes; and how to prepare for life in the UK.
We also have a Study Abroad programme for international students wishing to spend a year of their study at Essex.
Explore our range of options from spending a gap year here, or entering into an exchange, or gain a new perspective by coming here for an academic year or term of your existing course.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/international/educational-representatives:
We maintain a robust connection with our Essex Education Representatives and external agencies worldwide.
These agencies, dispersed globally, are well-equipped to provide you and your family with accurate and beneficial guidance regarding studying at Essex and navigating the visa application process in your respective country.
Contact details of Essex-approved agencies organised by country, are available on this page.
Our Educational Representatives are well-trained by our specialist recruitment teams in our International Offices and they can cover various services including:
We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of agency management, ensuring the UK remains a leading study destination for international students.
To demonstrate this commitment we have signed the Agent Quality Framework pledge.
We strongly recommend seeking advice from an Essex-approved Education agency.
If you would like to check if an agency is approved by Essex, or you would like to provide feedback on your experience with one of our approved agency partners, please contact us and we will gladly provide you assistance.
Explore the guide for choosing the right UK Education Agent for some helpful information.
To locate an Education Representative in your vicinity, explore the options by choosing your region from the list provided below.
Eduinternational - www.azeristudent.az
First EDUMATE - www.firstedumate.com
Integral - www.integral.bg
StudyIn - www.gostudyin.com
Beach Education LTD - www.beacheducation.com
Academic Action - www.academic-action.com
Inova Education - www.inovaeducation.com
LAE - www.lae-edu.com
Studies Planet - www.studiesplanet.com
AECC Global - www.aeccglobal.com.au
Expert Education and Visa Services - www.experteducation.com
Global reach (AUS) PTY LTD - www.globalreach.in/study-australia.php
Information Planet Pty Ltd - www.informationplanet.com.au
Jack Study Abroad - www.studyabroad.sg
StudyCo - www.studyco.com/en
Baku City Academy - www.bakucityacademy.com
British Education Bureau - www.britisheducation.com.tr
CELT Abroad LLC - www.celt.az
Edumax - www.edumax.az
Human Capital Foundation Worldwide Education - www.worldwide-education.com
IDP UK aka IDP/ Hotcourses - www.idp.com/global
Star Abroad LLC - www.star.edu.az
Studynet Group - www.studynet-group.com
Bridge International/Global Vision for Academic Services - no website
Education Links - www.educationlinks.com.bh
Education Zone (Edu Zone) - www.ezone.ae
JNS Education Consultant LTD - www.jnsedu.com
AH&Z - www.ahzassociates.com
ApplyBoard - www.applyboard.com
Crizac - no website
Maces - www.macesbd.com
MIM Study Abroad - www.mimstudyabroad.com
Neuron Educare - www.neuroneducare.co.uk
Westminster International - www.win-ed.com/en
Study Experience - www.studyexperience.fr
WEP - www.wep.or
Academic Action - www.academic-action.com Inova Education - www.inovaeducation.com
Gradeup - www.gradeup.com.br
QS StudentApply - www.qs.com
James Hon Marketing and Management - www.jameshon.com
Cool Travel - www.cooltravel.bg
Darbi Ltd - www.darbi.eu
Edlanta - www.edlanta.com
Study Abroad Advising Centre - www.education-abroad.ro
DS Overseas Education Consultant - www.dseducation.sg
Springboard4Education - www.springboard4education.com
Across the Pond - www.studyacrossthepond.com
Barclay Educational Services - www.barclayedu.com
Amber Education - www.amberedu.co.uk
AUG Student Services - www.augstudy.com
Beijing Aus-Canada Education - www.aojiaedu.cn
Beijing Better Education and Technology Development Co., Ltd - no website
Beijing Bo Wen Tian Di Education & technology development co.
LTD - no website
Beijing Jiexie Wenyuan - no website
Beijing Jintuolian Intl Edu Group - www.jtledu.com
Beijing New Oriental Vision Overseas Cons.
Co.
Ltd - www.liuxue.xdf.cn
Beijing Shiji Fenghua - no website
Beijing Yulongshikong Education Technology Development Co., Ltd - no website
BISU Education & Technology Co., Ltd - no website
Bright Can-Achieve Limited - www.can-achieve.com
CEMA - www.grouphorse.com
Chengdu Bowen Guangji Education Consulting Co, Ltd.
- no website
China iEDU - no website
China Prospect Culture Exchange Co., LTD - www.51edu.cn
Chinese Service Center for Scholarly Exchange (CSCSE) - www.cscse.cn
Educom International Ltd.
- www.educom.co
EIC - www.partners.eic.org.cn
Global Education Alliance (GEA) - www.geaworld.org
Global Education Channel - no website
Golden Arrow - www.ukpass.org
Golden Education - www.gaodun.com
Gostudy Education Institute - www.go-study.com.tw
Hope Study Abroad - www.hope-studyabroad.com
Huatong Xinnuo Int'l Culture Exchange Center LTD - www.ht-international.net
iHorizon Consulting/51Offer - www.51offer.com
Index - www.indexedu.com.tw/index
JJL International Education Exchange Promotion Ltd - www.jjl.cn
JM Education Group - www.jmeducationgroup.com
Liu Cheng International Group Ltd Head office - www.lcig.net
ONE Education Bangkok - www.one-educationgroup.com/en
Peiyou International CO Limited - no website
Power Academy - www.poweracademy.cn
Shanghai Youyue Education Consultancy Ltd.
(Peccn) - www.peccn.com
UKEC China - www.ukec.com
Welink Education - www.welinkglobal.cn
Wiseway Global Co Ltd - www.wiseway.com.cn
MAS Education - www.maseducation.org
The Broad Club - www.thebroadclub.com
BHV Education - www.bhvedu.com
Integral - www.integraledu.hr
AA UNIlink Edu Services Ltd - www.unilink.com.cy
Atlas - www.atlasedu.co.uk
Esolnet LTD (A & H Examsnet) - no website
Photiades Education - www.photiades.ac.cy
Savvides Institute - www.savvideseducation.com
Success ELT - no website
TCS Educational Consultants - www.tcs.com.cy
Czech-Us Studium V Zahranici, S.R.O.
- www.czech-us.cz
Scandinavian Study - www.scandinavianstudy.cz
Unilink - www.unilink.cz
EDU - www.edu-danmark.dk
International Learning Center - www.ilearning.education
BESA Group – British Educational Services Group Limited - www.besaeg.com
EDRES Educational Recruitment Services - www.edreseg.com
Edulinx Education Ltd - www.edulinx.net
Emonovo - www.emonovo.com
Global Study UK - www.globalstudyuk.com
Mousez Trade International - www.mousez.net
UniPal - www.unipaleg.com
Baltic Council - www.balticcouncil.ee/ee/sakums
Bellnor - www.bellnor.ee
Dream Foundation - www.dreamfoundation.eu
Chrismo Consulting & Training - www.chrismoconsulting.com
ISPA HO.
- www.ispa.fr
WEP - www.wep.fr
English Book - www.englishbookeducation.co.uk
College Contact GmbH - www.college-contact.com
Asteroidis - www.asteroidis.com
CES Bureau of Counselling in Education & Services - www.ces.com.gr
Edmundo - www.edmun.do/el
Hellenic Anglo Learning Operations - www.halo.edu.gr
Network Educational Services - www.network.gr
Stepping Stone - www.steppingstone.gr/index.php
AAS Education Consultancy - www.aas.com.hk
Aston Education - www.aston.edu.hk
beo Tokyo - www.beo.jp
British United Education Services - www.britishunited.net
Cyclopes Limited - www.cyclopeseducation.com/en
Hkies - www.hkies.com.hk
Hong Kong Education Web - www.education.com.hk
International Overseas Studies Center (IOSC) - www.int-osc.com
LinkedU Overseas Education - www.linkedu.hk
Abroad Education Consultants - www.aecoverseas.com
AH&Z - www.ahzassociates.co.uk
Azent Education - www.azent.com
Edlogica - www.edlogica.com
Edroots International - www.edroots.com
Education Matters - www.edmat.org
Edvoy (IEC Abroad) - www.edvoy.com
Edwise - www.edwiseinternational.com
Fateh Education - www.fateheducation.com
Geebee Education - www.geebeeworld.com
Global Degrees - www.globaldegrees.in
Global Opportunities Private Limited - www.global-opportunities.net
Global Tree Careers PVT LTD - www.globaltree.in
Graduate Overseas - www.graduateoverseas.co.in
Infinite Group - www.infinitegroup.global
IPC - www.educationoverseas.com
KC Overseas - Krishna Consultants - www.studies-overseas.com
Kings Cornerstone International College - www.cornerstone.edu.in
LEO Global Overseas - www.leoglobaloverseas.com
Leverage EDU - www.leverageedu.com
Liu Cheng International Group Ltd - www.lcig.net
Oberois Education Link - www.educationlinkhouse.com
Overseas Education Centre (OEC) - www.oecindia.com
Powerhouse Global Servicez LLC - www.phgs.org
Prem N Kapur Associates Pvt Ltd - www.foreign-study.com
Santa Monica Study Abroad - www.santamonicaedu.in
Shiksha - www.shiksha.com
Silver Fern Education Consultants - www.thesfedu.com
TC Global - www.tcglobal.com
Edubridge - www.edubridge.co.id
Elsindo Consulting - www.elsindoconsulting.com
PDVL Overseas Advisory - www.pd-vl.com
Sun Education Group - www.suneducationgroup.com
Elmgostar (David Game Iran) - www.egkaveh.org
My Arman - www.myarman.com
IGEC - www.igecglobal.com
COMING di Maccolini Daniela - no website
Educonnection - no website
Tutor You - www.tutoryou.com/it
WEP - www.wep.it
Gesco Amman - www.gescoedu.com
Global Connections - www.gconnections.eu
Golden Path for University Services - www.goldenpath.org.uk
Oval Office - www.oval.edu.jo
Be Global - www.beglobal.kz
iBridge LLP - www.ibridge.kz
UNISERV - www.uniserveducation.com
Acceptix - www.acceptix.com
Alshamlan Edu - www.alshamlanedu.org
Bridges International Knowledge For Education Consulting - www.b2-ik.com
Easy Apply - www.easyapplyedu.com
MEC Study Group - www.mecstudygroup.com
Prime Student - www.prime-apply.com
Studygram Worldwide Education - www.studygram.me
Ulearn Student Services - www.ulearnabroad.com/home
Baltic Council - www.balticcouncil.lv/lv/sakums
Dream Foundation - www.dreamfoundation.eu/lv_LV
Kalba LT - www.kalba.lt/en
Education Basket - www.education-basket.com
Baltic Council - www.balticcouncil.lt/lt/sakums
Kalba LT - www.kalba.lt
Further Education - www.furthereducation.co
Liu Cheng International Group Ltd - www.lcig.io
Mabecs - www.mabecs.com
Market Management Services - www.mmsmalaysia.com
NAS Education - www.nase.com.my
Sun Asa Education SDN BHD Sdn Bhd - www.malaysia.suneducationgroup.com
Tedvisory - www.tedvisory.com
UKEC Malaysia - www.campaign.ukec.com.my
Campus Abroad - www.campusabroadmauritius.com
OVEC (Overseas Education Centre) - www.ovecedu.com
Love UK - www.loveuk.com.mx
Delphi Education Ltd - www.delphieducation.co.uk
The English Company - www.theenglishcompany.org
Regent Consultancy Services Co, Ltd - www.regent-myanmar.com
SafeNet Education Consultancy & Services - www.safeneteducation.com
KC Overseas (Krishna Consultants) - www.studies-overseas.com
Information Planet Pty Ltd - www.informationplanet.nl
Bridge House College - www.bridgehousecollege.com
Glory Education Services Ltd - www.gloryeduserve.com
NUBI Education Counselling - www.nubieducation.com
Rien Links Ventures - no website
Ronald and Partners - www.ronald-partners.net
Strategic Offshore Placements - www.strategicoffshoreplacement.com
Study Advisory Services LTD - www.studyadvisoryservices.com
Studyvisa International Limited - www.studyvisaedu.com
Wisdomite Ventures - no website
Al Ahlam Higher Education Services - www.ahlameducation.com
Aaryans Services Pvt Ltd - www.aaryans.net
Ability Education - www.abilityeducation.com.pk
ABN Overseas Education (Pvt.) Ltd.
- www.abneducation.com
ACS Education - www.acseducation.org
Adiuvo Consultants - www.adiuvoconsultants.com
AEO Pakistan - www.aeo.com.pk
AS Education Service - www.aseducation.com.pk
Auspak International - www.auspak.edu.pk
Buzzers - no website
Colleges Pro - www.collegespro.com
D'Educationist PVT LTD - www.deducationist.com
Edify Consulting - www.edifyconsulting.org
Edmentium - www.edmentium.org
Education Resources Network - www.ernglobal.org
Edwise Education Pakistan - no website
Emerging Visions - www.emergingvisions.co.uk
Fahim Abbasi - www.fahimabbasi.biz
FES Higher Education Consultants Pvt.
Ltd.
- www.fespak.com
FM Consultants - www.fmglobaledu.com
HR Consultants (Pvt) Ltd - www.hrpakistan.com/hri
MA Consultants - www.maconsultants.org
MR Consultants - www.mrconsultants.org
Naseem Khan Consultancy - www.nkhan.co
Prospects Consulting - www.prospects.pk
Reach the Globe - www.reachtheglobe.co
Study First - no website
StudyIn-AUS Consulting Pvt Ltd - www.studyin-aus.com
Success Factor - www.successfactor.org
Times Consultant - www.timesconsultant.com/en
Upskill Education Consultants - www.upskillco.com
VICPAK Consultancy Services - www.vicpakconsultant.com
Baltic Council - www.balticcouncil.pl/pl/sakums
Dream Foundation - www.dreamfoundation.eu/en_GB
Smart Prospects - www.sp.edu.pl
Information Planet Pty Ltd - www.informationplanet.pt
OK Student - www.okstudent.com
Study Wing - www.studywing.org/pt/home-pt
Qobolak - www.qabolak.com/ar/home
Adina Toma - no website
Educativa Group - www.edmun.do/ro
Student Consulting - www.studentconsulting.com/en
ITEC - www.itecgroup.ru
A+ Study Abroad - www.aplus-studyabroad.com
EduGlobe - www.eduglobe.co.uk
IDE Education - no website
Knowledge Well - www.knowledgewell.co.uk
UKUNI - www.ukuni.net
Cialfo PTE LTD - www.cialfo.co
Overseas Education SG PTE LTD - www.overseaseducation.sg
TheRightU - www.therightu.com
Cambridge Study - www.cambridgestudy.sk
Information Planet Pty Ltd - www.informationplanet.sk
EDM Education Seoul - www.edmuhak.com
UK Education Centre - www.ukcentre.co.kr
UKEN - www.uken.kr
UPSEE - www.upsee.co.kr
IEC - www.iecformacion.com
Information Planet Pty Ltd - www.informationplanet.es
ABEC Premier - www.abec.lk
STUDIN Study International - www.studin.se
Study Abroad - www.studyabroad.se
Academic Excellence Intl - www.aeitw.com
Jason International Education Services - www.jasonedu.com.tw
OHStudy - www.ohstudy.net
Oxbridge Consulting - www.oxbridge.tw
StudyLink Education Advisory Services Ltd - www.studylink.org/en
Westminster International - www.win-ed.com.tw
BRIT-Education UK - www.brit-ed.com
Education For Life Co.,Ltd.
- www.eduforlife.net
Gouni - www.gouni.co.th
Hands On - www.hands-on.co.th
Mango Learning - www.mangolearningexpress.com
MyAdmissions - www.myadmissions.net
New Cambridge - www.newcambridge.com
The Mastery - www.themasteryuk.com
Westminster International - www.westminster.co.th
Alpha Coaching and Consulting - www.alphakocluk.com
ATEC - www.atec.com.tr
British Side - www.britishside-edu.com
Edcon - www.edcon.com.tr
Edukas - www.edukas.com.tr
Eduworld Edu Services - www.eduworld.com.tr
Egitimal Education Counseling Service - www.egitimal.com
Onedu Yurtdisi Egitim Danismanligi Limited Sirketi - www.onedu.com.tr
Royal Crown for Training Technology and Consultancy - www.royal-crown.info
Time Academy Limited - www.time-academy.co.uk
Academic Powerhouse - no website
Ltd - www.liuxue.xdf.cn/en_site
British English School HP & KP LTD.
- www.britishenglishschool.co.uk
British University Placements - www.britishuniversityplacements.com
CES Bureau of Counselling in Education & Services - www.ces.com.gr/en
Derek Guimond - www.guimondvukovicgroup.com
EF Education First - www.ef.co.uk
EIC - www.partners.eic.org.cn/index.html
Future Graduates LTD - no website
IESAW (International Educational Services Arab World) - www.iesaw.com
INTO - www.intostudy.com/en
JT Education - www.jteducation.com
Kaplan International Colleges University Placement Service - www.kaplan.com
Lion Heart Education Service - www.lionhearteducationservice.com
Qobolak - www.qabolak.com
Talib Consultancy Limited [TCL Global] - www.tclglobal.co.uk
The Student Sport Company - www.studentsportcompany.com
TopCourses - www.top-courses.org
UKUoffer - www.ukuoffer.co.uk/en
Uni Direct Ltd - www.university-direct.com
Business Link - www.businesslink.com.ua
Future Bridge Education and Training - www.futurebridgeeducation.com
Glinks International Education Support Services LLC - www.glinksgroup.com
GroupL FZE - www.groupleducation.com
IPC (Dubai) - www.unidirection.com
UNI Student Universities Entrance Services - www.unistudent.ae
Bring It Promotions LLC - www.bringitusa.com
Play Overseas - www.playoverseas.co.uk
Scorers 1st Sports Management - www.scorersfirst.com
SML Sports - no website
Student Athlete Network - www.studentathletenetwork.co.uk
Team Gleas - www.teamgleas.com
US Sports Scholarships Ltd - www.ussportsscholarships.com
UCAN Consulting - www.ucanconsulting.uz
Universe Group - www.universegroup.uz
GSE - www.gse.edu.vn
Hands On - www.hands-on.co.th/en
INDEC - www.indec.vn
ISC Education - no website
Vietint - www.vietint.net

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/international/eu-students:
The UK has left the European Union, but at Essex our welcome to European students will remain as warm as ever.
Here you'll find information about studying at Essex as an EU student after Brexit.
We've been welcoming EU students at Essex with open arms for decades, and we continue to do so after Brexit.
Although the practicalities of coming to study in the UK have changed, Essex will continue to have lots to offer for EU students, and we are here to help you make your journey to Essex as smooth as possible.
EU students are an important part of our student family, and have always been active members of our community.
Our EU students have started and run a number of cultural societies , offering an opportunity for students to meet and spend time with students from their country, and for other students to learn about the cultures of our European students.
Our country-specific pages include details of cultural societies and student networks from your region.
A notable number of our staff are also from the EU, and we form part of the wider European research community, with networks extending across the continent.
Part of our commitment to our European networks is our membership in the YUFE and YERUN alliances.
Through our partnership with the alliance universities around Europe, our students have the opportunity to apply for a YUFE Diploma Supplement programme, build networks across Europe, or spend time studying abroad at one of the partner universities, either virtually or in person.
Our academic courses and student services will continue to be available to European students as before, but you should be aware of a few changes to student funding and immigration requirements after the UK has left the European Union.
Please note that these changes do not apply to Irish nationals living in the UK or Ireland.
If you did not study in the UK before October 2021 and will be coming to study in the UK now, you are likely to be classified as an international student for tuition fee purposes.
This means that you will be required to pay international tuition fees.
We'll assess your fee status when you apply to Essex and if you are successful in gaining an offer, your fee status will be confirmed in your offer letter.
You can only access student loans from the UK government if you have settled or pre-settled status .
In recognition of the changed funding, we have introduced EU scholarships for undergraduate students worth £5,000, for masters students with awards up to £5,500, and also research scholarships worth £8,000.
The undergraduate scholarships are available for the duration of your degree so you will receive the £5,000 scholarship for each year of studies in your undergraduate degree.
There are additional scholarships and funding sources available for some countries.
Please check the webpage for your country for further information.
You must not travel to the UK to study unless you have valid UK immigration permission or pre-settled/settled status.
If you obtain Student immigration permission, you must make sure that you do not enter the UK before the date it is valid from.
If you enter the UK without the relevant permission in place, you will be entering as a visitor and will not be able to study a course with us that is for longer than 6 calendar months.
If you are coming to the UK to study and do not have settled status or the right to apply, you are likely to have to apply for a visa to study with us.
Find out if you need a visa and read our immigration and visas  guidance about applying for your Student visa and travelling to the UK.
Please note that a valid passport which should be valid for the duration of your stay is required to enter the UK.
It will not be possible to use an EEA or Swiss national identity card to enter the UK unless you have obtained settled or pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme, in this case you may be able to use a valid identity card or passport which is registered on your UK Visas and Immigration account.
Read the government website for more information.
If you have valid pre-settled or settled status after applying to the EU settlement scheme, we will require evidence before you can study with us inside the UK.
If you have pre-settled status you will need to apply for settlement before it expires and when you have been in the UK for 5 years.
If you do not have a Certificate of Application and applied for EUSS after 30 June 2021, you will not be able to study with us inside the UK until one is issued to you or you have been granted settled/pre-settled status.
Please see our page on Coming to the UK for more information.
Please note that, you register and start your course at your own risk, if your application is refused you may need to apply for a Student visa overseas to continue your course and would need to request a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) from the University, we are unable to guarantee our sponsorship for a student visa.
We understand that your Certificate of Application should include information about what you can do whilst your application is pending and you should be allowed to study in the UK until you receive the outcome, we’ll need to see a copy of your Certificate of Application at your in-person right to study check.
A Certificate of Application is issued as soon as an application is valid in accordance with paragraph EU9 of the Immigration Rules for the EUSS in Appendix EU.
Applicants who have a digital Certificate of Application can log into the online View and Prove service using their UKVI account and generate a share code to prove their rights.
This includes share codes for right to work, study, right to rent and other purposes.
Applicants who applied by the deadline of the 30 June 2021 have their rights in the UK covered by The Citizens’ Rights (Application Deadline and Temporary Protection) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 .
If you were living in the UK before 31 December 2020 but did not apply for settlement via the EU Settlement Scheme by the 30 June 2021, you may still be able to apply if you have a ‘reasonable excuse’.
If you were absent from the UK for more than 12 months and did not apply, or were refused previously, it maybe worth reapplying since the Home Office introduced concessions allowing a longer gap if it was due to COVID-19.
Please visit the Government website for more information and to apply.
However, if you apply/applied after the deadline of the 30 June 2021, you are not covered by The Citizens’ Rights (Application Deadline and Temporary Protection) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 .
This means you require a Certificate of Application to travel and prove any rights you may have in the UK whilst your application is pending.
You will not be able to study with us in the UK if you do not have a Certificate of Application or proof of your settled/pre-settled status when it is granted.
Immigration advice and guidance is regulated by the Office of the Immigration Advice Authority (IAA) , our University and Student Union student immigration specialists are trained and authorised to provide immigration advice and guidance about the UK’s Student Immigration Rules.
Unfortunately, this means we aren’t able to offer advice about other categories of the UK’s Immigration Rules, including settlement applications.
We recommend you read the information and guidance available from the following reputable sources and contact them for further advice if possible.
After you have read the information available from the above organisations, if you have a question you can’t find the answer to or need further clarification, you can contact a UKCISA adviser .
Please note that if you are an EU or EEA national, you will only be able to study a part-time course if you hold Settled Status in the UK.
If you will need a Student visa to study in the UK then you will not be able to study part-time.
If you have a Student visa to study with us, it may be possible for you to stay in the UK to work after you have been awarded an eligible qualification,  through the new Graduate route .
Our courses prepare you for the world of work, and our Student Development Team are on hand to support you in making the most of your time outside of your studies, with careers advice and preparation, and part-time work opportunities to gain real-world work experience (subject to your immigration conditions).

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/international/immigration-and-visas:
If you are not a UK or Irish citizen, you will need to hold valid UK immigration permission that allows you to study your University of Essex course inside the UK.
Some British nationals require a visa to study in the UK, even though they may be entitled to apply for British citizenship and/or pay home fees.
Read the government guidance for more information.
If you are a BNO from Hong Kong, you may be able to apply for the British National Overseas (BNO) visa, this visa allows study in the UK and can lead to settlement.
Visit the government website to find out if you need a visa to study in the UK and, if so, what visa to apply for.
As a Student Sponsor we have many compliance duties which include, “to comply with all aspects of the Immigration Rules and sponsor guidance, and support immigration control, including by taking steps to ensure that every student at their institution who is subject to immigration control has permission to study in the UK throughout the whole period of their study.” Please familiarise yourself with all The University Regulations including the regulations relating to immigration within the General regulations and Regulations relating to Registration.
Read our Registration pages to find out more about the identity documents you will need to bring with you and if you are not a UK or Irish national, our Identity and Right to Study Documents table (.pdf) to find out what immigration documents we will need to complete your right to study check.
If you will be studying at the University of Essex International College and your CAS is issued by the college or by Kaplan, the guidance in these pages does not apply to you.
Please contact the college .
If you do not have UK immigration permission that will allow you to study with us, the type of visa you should apply for will depend on your circumstances including, what passport or travel document you hold, the length of your proposed study and where you are applying from.
As a general guide:
If you are overseas and are coming to the UK to study;
If you are inside the UK and are starting a new course or need more time to finish your course;
Please read our information and guidance to find out what type of permission you may be able to apply for and follow relevant links to the government and UKCISA guidance to find out more:
To apply for a Student visa , you will need to be eligible for our immigration sponsorship and be issued with a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) first.
Read our guidance for more information.
To apply for a Standard Visitor visa , you will need a supporting document from us.
There are types of study a Standard Visitor cannot do so it is very important you read our guidance before applying or entering the UK.
Most types of UK immigration permission allow study, however, the type of study you can do may be restricted, you will need to read the Immigration Rules that apply to find out what your conditions are.
It is your responsibility to ensure the type of permission you hold is for the main purpose of your visit to the UK and that you continue to meet all the requirements and conditions of your permission during your stay.
The types of permission that may not enable you to study your chosen course include the Graduate route, Immigration Bail, Visitor and a Student visa for a different institution/course.
If your immigration permission will expire before your course is due to finish, you may be able to start your course but do so at your own risk.
We are unable to guarantee to sponsor you to apply for permission to stay under the Student Immigration Rules in the future but will consider a request.
If you are interested in the Graduate route when you have completed an eligible course, you will need to have been studying in the UK with Student immigration permission for the required length of time, read the UKCISA’s Working after studies guidance for more information.
EU settlement – if you have obtained pre-settled or settled status you can study in the UK and will not require a visa.
If you have pre-settled status, you can apply for settled status once you have been in the UK for 5 years.
Read our EU student page for some more information about the EU Settlement Scheme, including what you should do if you have applied but haven’t had the outcome yet and, for links to guidance from trusted organisations.
The UKCISA website includes a dedicated section for EU, EEA and Swiss nationals.
If you are not a UK or Irish national, read our Identity and Right to Study Documents table (.pdf) to find out what immigration documents we will require to complete your right to study check.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/international/pre-sessional:
We offer a range of Pre-Sessional English Language (PSE) courses delivered by expert teachers at the University of Essex International College (UEIC) , a Kaplan International Pathways partner or our partners in China (developed by Essex Pathways).
Pre-Sessional English courses are designed to improve your English language level ahead of studying a degree at University of Essex.
If you join a UEIC PSE programme you will take Kaplan’s own English language test at the end of the course.
If you successfully pass this, the University will remove the English language condition from your degree course offer.
You will not be required to take another independent English language test such as IELTS, TOEFL or Pearson.
We are currently accepting applications for the following courses:
UEIC’s PELSS is available to conditional offer holders, providing integrated training in the academic use of English, as well as important study skills to prepare for degree-level study.
The programme is available at our Colchester campus, and runs for 20, 15 or 10 weeks, providing an uplift to your English language score equivalent to IELTS 1.5, 1 or 0.5.
You will work to develop your skills in grammar and vocabulary, reading and writing, and speaking and listening.
You will also complete an independent project in which you will be given the opportunity to focus on areas relevant to your chosen degree at the University of Essex.
The project will introduce you to a range of research and study skills including planning, drafting, and presenting.
20-week PELSS
15-week PELSS
10-week PELSS
The PEL focuses on improving your English grammar and vocabulary, and helping you gain further reading, writing, speaking and listening skills.
The 15-, 10- and 5-week PEL are available at our Colchester Campus and provide an English uplift equivalent to IELTS 1.5, 1.0 and 0.5 respectively.
15-week PEL
10-week PEL
5-week PEL
Applications can be submitted via your MyEssex Applicant Portal .
If you wish to study PELSS or PEL, you must hold a Secure English Language Test (SELT).
It is a UK Home Office requirement that applicants studying below degree level in the UK (which includes PSE courses) hold a SELT and we are not able to make any exceptions to this rule.
SELTs we are able to accept are Academic UKVI IELTS, Trinity, or Academic Pearson Test of English for UKVI.
The test must be dated within 2 years of the start date of your PSE programme.
If you have any queries, please email PSE@essex.ac.uk
ASPP is the only course available to unconditional offer holders and is available at our Colchester campus.
This 4-week course will introduce you to the study and research skills common in UK universities.
It will also help familiarise you with the University campus and adjust more easily to student life and the academic culture in the UK.
All ASPP applicants will be eligible for a linked CAS which will cover their ASPP and their main programme of study, meaning they only have to make one visa application.
4-week ASPP
Applications can be submitted via the “Applying” tab of your myEssex applicant portal.
If you wish to study the ASPP you only need to hold an unconditional offer and do not need to hold a secure English language test.
You will receive your PELSS and PEL results on 5 September 2025.
Provided you have successfully passed, and you have satisfied any other conditions of your main course offer, you will be issued an unconditional offer letter for your main programme of study at University of Essex within 5 working days.
If you need a student visa to study in the UK, you will need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) in order to submit a visa application.
We always aim to issue a linked CAS if it is possible for us to do so.
This means that you will be given one CAS, which will cover both your PSE programme and your main programme of study, meaning you only need to make one visa application.
Linked CAS will be assigned if:
Where this is not possible you will be given two separate standalone CAS (one for your PSE programme and one for your main programme of study at the University of Essex).
The CAS for your PSE programme will be assigned by Kaplan on behalf of UEIC no later than 4 weeks prior to the start date of your programme.
The CAS for your degree course will be assigned by the University of Essex within 5 working days from your PSE results being released on 5 September 2025, (provided you have met any other conditions and have provided us with any information requested).
In most cases applicants in this position will be able to make their new visa application from within the UK.
If you are resident in China, you may be interested in taking a PSE programme on campus at one of our partner institutions in China.
Our partners in China teach courses that are 10 or 5 weeks in duration, providing equivalent IELTS uplifts of 1.0 or 0.5 respectively.
These PSE programmes focus on enhancing your English language skills to prepare you for undergraduate or postgraduate degree level study.
You will be taught further grammar and vocabulary skills as well as additional reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills.
If you take a PSE programme with one of our partners in China, you will take the Essex Pathways English language test at the end of the course.
If you have successfully passed you will be provided with a transcript and the University will remove the English language condition from your main course offer.
The programmes will be delivered at the following institutions:
The number of spaces on each programme is capped and offers will be made on a first come first served basis.
UKEC and GDUFS 10-week PEL
UKEC and GDUFS 5-week PEL
In order to apply you must hold an accepted English language certificate dated within 2 years of the start date of the PSE programme:
You will receive your results on 12 August 2025 after your PSE course has ended.
If you have achieved all the conditions of your main course offer, an unconditional offer letter and Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) will be issued for your main programme of study at University of Essex as soon as possible so that you can make a student visa application.
The Department of Language and Linguistics offers free English classes for dependants of international students and staff at the University of Essex.
To find out more about eligibility and available classes, please visit the department's website .
You can study a Pre-Sessional course before the start of your main course at Essex.
The right Pre-Sessional course for you depends on your current IELTS score and the subject you'll be studying afterwards.
Our Pre-Sessional finder tool will show you the options available to you.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/international/degree-preparation-courses:
As an international student, you might need to take a degree preparation course before attending university abroad.
Sometimes these types of courses are necessary because of differences in national education systems, or to help you improve your academic skills, and language skills if required.
The University of Essex offers degree preparation courses in partnership with Kaplan International Pathways .
These programmes, called pathway courses, allow international students to progress to an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at the University of Essex, when you pass your course at the required level with good attendance.
You can choose to study the following pathway courses, depending on your current qualifications:
Each course requires you to have a minimum English language level.
If you do have the academic level required for your degree course but do not have the English level required, Pre-Sessional English courses are available for students who specifically need to improve their English level for university.
All degree preparation courses are studied at the University of Essex International College .
The College is situated on the University’s Colchester campus, giving you the chance to feel like part of the University before progressing to your degree.
During your studies, you’ll also have access to all the University of Essex’s facilities and resources.
The welcoming staff at the College are there to make your experience as rewarding as possible.
They will guide, inspire and help you make the most of your time at the International College.
You’ll even get to enjoy organised social events and activities including sports tournaments and visits to local attractions, giving you lots of opportunities to make friends and explore the city.
If you would like to study an undergraduate degree but don't yet meet the entry requirements for direct admission, you can study a Foundation Certificate .
On this course, you'll improve your subject knowledge and, if required, your English language level.
If you pass at the required level with good attendance, you're guaranteed entry to your chosen undergraduate degree at the University of Essex.
International Year One (IYO) is a great study option for international students who have finished high school with good grades.
This is because an IYO course allows you to progress straight to the 2nd year of your undergraduate degree if pass at the required level with good attendance.
The course will help you improve your subject knowledge and study skills, as well as your English if necessary.
Pre-Master's courses are for international students who have already completed 3 years of higher education or equivalent, but don’t quite meet the entry requirements for a postgraduate degree.
When you complete your Pre-Master's course with the required grades and good attendance, you are guaranteed a place on your chosen master's degree.
If you would like to join one of the degree preparation courses available at the University of Essex International College, you can apply here or contact the expert education advisers at Kaplan International Pathways.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/international/country-specific-information:
We have tailored information for many individual countries so that you have all the information you need to make your application .
Our country pages include information about visits to your country, scholarships and bursaries, student and alumni profiles, clubs and societies and contacts for your country.
Our Regional Offices are also happy to help you with any questions you may have.
Sadly, we haven't got any specific information for countries within the Oceanic region.
But why not explore our Undergraduate , Postgraduate Taught and Research web pages for more information about studying at the University of Essex.
Or, get in touch with us on Live Chat.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/international/prospectus:
If you’re an international student interested in studying with us and want to discover more about living and learning at Essex, sign up today to gain access to our International prospectus.
Discover everything you need to know about studying in the UK at Essex!
Our Prospectus is packed with information on courses, campus life, and the support available to help you make the most of your journey as a student.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/categories/preparing-for-essex:
You've done it - you're coming to Essex!
Now what?
Read our top tips on how to prepare for life at Essex from those who have been there.
Simon Greenwood
11 June 2025
Melanie Symonds
27 February 2025
19 February 2025
25 September 2024
Essex Abroad
28 June 2024
22 May 2024
16 May 2024
Michael Theodoridis
21 March 2024
Pauline Canham
04 March 2024
21 February 2024
16 February 2024
13 February 2024

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/managing-money/cost-of-living:
The cost of living crisis in the UK is likely to impact all of us.
From energy bills to food costs, prioritising your money is more important now than ever.
We know that students with experience of the care system, disabled students, those with health conditions or caring responsibilities, and international students may face particular challenges.
If you are worried about how you’ll manage to pay for everything you need to, we have a range of guidance and support to help.
Direct financial support is available to those students who meet the required criteria.
If you are in danger of struggling financially and fear that it may affect your studies, please contact our team and read on to discover more about the loans, bursaries and funding available.
We update these pages regularly at the start of each new academic year, so if the current year's submission is closed for new applications do check back regularly.
Digital Support Fund is for students who are experiencing financial difficulty.
The University offers a £200 contribution towards the cost of laptops for students whose disability means that they need one for study and who are from a low household income.
If you are experiencing financial difficulty and are invited to attend a Graduation Ceremony
The University Graduation gown and photography provider
The University is offering financial support to students who have had an unexpected
If you're a student with UK refugee status or a dependant of UK refugees you may be eligible for a bursary of up to £1500 if you are studying full time or up to £750 if you are studying part time.
Dealing with finances as a student can get confusing at times and we know that student life often means having to live on a budget.
Some students rely on receiving a student loan
For those students who need some advice and guidance to help them manage and balance their finances, the University and the Student Union provide a range of different guidance for you.
Don't forget you can always chat to the Student Services Hub at any time should you have concerns, difficulties or looking for guidance.
Find out about managing your money and working while studying.
This information will assist you in planning for the next phase.
University students are increasingly becoming targets for money mule schemes
Find out how you can best manage financial debt.
Check out the money events that we’re planning for the coming year.
A part-time job may help support you financially during your time at Essex.
We also have guidance to help prepare you for your future career after you graduate .
Beyond the academic fees you’ll pay for your programme, the other main costs are living expenses.
Where you choose to live will play a big part in determining how much money you’ll need while you’re studying at Essex.
An estimate of living costs for a typical Essex student is shown below by campus.
The figures are intended as a guide only and will vary depending on individual lifestyle, circumstances, and can vary due to the inflation rate and your course.
Below you can view the rent charges for University accommodation:
The following prices are based on the Save the Student accommodation survey for 2025 .
Household bills include gas, electricity, water, broadband, and a TV licence.
The prices below for food, course materials, going out, socialising, clothes, shopping and health and wellbeing are based on the Save the Student survey for 2024 .
Both undergraduate and postgraduate students at East 15 will have additional costs (.pdf) on top of the costs outlined below.
The additional costs are due at the point of admission.
There is no need to buy books, all the essential reading for each module on your course is provided in online reading lists by the University of Essex Library Services.
Many of your essential reading list items will also be found in our physical library spaces.
Our libraries also provide access to hundreds of online e-books, journals, databases and subscription services for students, as well as providing physical books and journals associated with each of the subject areas studied and taught at Essex to support further reading and research.
Course materials can differ from course to course, please check with your department regarding the materials required for your course.
Laptops come in various specifications and can be affordable, with prices ranging from £200-£500 for basic tasks like note-taking and occasional document work.
However, it's important to consider the requirements of your course as you may need to invest in a more expensive laptop.
If you have dependants, your cost of living will be considerably higher and vary based on your choice of accommodation and the size of your family.
If you have a family, there is a wide range of information, support and advice available.
The above costs are based on estimates and averages.
Most students will need to budget for additional costs such as clothing, subscriptions, socialising and items you may not being able to bring with you or haven’t had to buy before such as kitchen, bedding and electrical items .
It’s important to budget and manage your money .
There are additional fees and costs associated with postgraduate research courses.
If you are applying for a student visa to study in the UK, you'll need to demonstrate that you have sufficient funds in place to cover your tuition fees and living costs in line with the requirements outlined in the immigration rules.
The amount of money you must have available for living expenses depends on the length of your course and differs from the information above.
When coming to the UK to study , there are additional charges that you will need to consider as an international student.
These include the visa application fee , the healthcare premium , and the supporting financial documents required for your visa application.
Find out more about how to get a student visa .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/student-communities/international:
There are several events and schemes you may be interested in taking part in whilst you are in the UK studying.
Here are some of them.
There are so many events and trips for you to choose from.
Have a look at the SU website to find out ‘What’s on’ at Essex.
Chaired by the VP International, an elected Sabbatical Officer, the International Students' Community aims to represent our international students and hopes to bring you together by organising various events and trips throughout the year.
The SU have many societies .
If you can’t find one that interests you, you can start a new one.
HOST UK is a charitable organisation, they have a network of volunteers ‘hosts’ all over Britain who welcome students (and their adult partners) into their homes for a weekend or a day, throughout the year including Christmas and Easter.
To be eligible you will need to be:
Your travel costs and an application fee.
Various organisations give funding to HOST which may mean you won’t have to pay the application fee.
You’ll find out what the application costs when you apply.
Visit the HOST website to find more about the scheme and to apply.
If you have any questions about the scheme you can contact HOST by email or telephone.
International Students’ House (ISH) is an accommodation and entertainment centre in the
heart of London, near Regent’s Park.
It is open all year and offers comfortable, inexpensive accommodation and a warm friendly atmosphere.
ISH has a special programme for international students at Christmas time.
If you decide to stay at ISH it is best to make your reservation
well in advance, as demand is bound to be high, you can even book in October.
Friends International Colchester (FIC) is a local group representing Christians
from churches in the Colchester area.
FIC gives you the opportunity to visit an English home, attend a traditional Christmas party, Easter outing
or summer event or just practise your English.
Rotary International is a global network of volunteers, they sometimes run local events for international students.
Essex students will be emailed with information about any up-coming events in your local area.
Rotaract in Colchester was started by University of Essex students.
Contact them if you are interested in finding out more about the young persons' division of Rotary and getting involved.
If you are not a European Economic Area national and want to travel to Europe, you may be required to apply for a Schengen visa before you travel.
The Schengen Visa Scheme enables non-EEA nationals to obtain one visa to visit a number of designated countries within the EEA as a tourist, it allows short stays or visits of up to 3 months in any 6 month period.
To apply you will need to supply various documents including a Certificate of Registration as proof of your studies.
If you have student immigration permission to study in the UK and would like your visit to take place during your term time you must request this absence is authorised via your myEssex portal.
Unauthorised absences have to be reported to the Home Office and could affect your immigration status and your ability to complete your studies as planned.
Please read the UKCISA guidance about travelling to Europe which includes information about applying for a Schengen visa.
If you have any additional questions you will need to ask the Embassy you are applying to as the application forms and requirements vary from country to country.
Check the website for the country you would like to visit.
To find a London based Embassy/Consulate see the London Diplomatic List on the Foreign and Commonwealth Office website .
Due to the regulation of immigration advice and services in the UK university advisers are not able to offer advice or guidance regarding Schengen visa applications.
British Council's Creating Confidence booklet (.pdf) is designed to help international students prepare for their time in the UK.
It highlights some safety and security issues that international students should be aware of and lists helpful contact information.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/immigration-and-visas/working-in-the-uk-after-your-studies:
It may be possible for you to stay on in the UK for practical training or work experience or for full-time employment depending on your circumstances.
Read the UKCISA Information and guidance on all current schemes and contact their student advice line if you have any questions.
As an Essex Graduate or student, the schemes mentioned below may be of interest to you.
The Graduate route was launched by the Home Office on the 1 July 2021 and gives eligible sponsored students (student visa holders), the chance to apply for permission to stay in the UK for a further two years (three for PhD students) to work or seek work.
The University of Essex is a Higher Education provider that is listed on the Register of Student Sponsors as a "Student Sponsor - Track Record" so we have a track record of compliance.
If you are thinking of going onto further study in the UK, you may need to request a new CAS from your education provider to apply for a new Student visa .
This is because the type of study you can do in the UK with permission to stay as a Graduate is restricted, for instance you wouldn’t be able to study a full or part-time Masters or PhD with a Student Sponsor.
You can only have Graduate permission once, even if you apply to switch into another immigration route before your two or three years is up, so don’t waste it.
Please be aware that, if you aren’t able to successfully complete your course by the course end date stated on the CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) you made to make your student visa application, you may not be eligible for further sponsorship under the Student route.
If you aren’t eligible for a new CAS to apply for further permission under the Student route to complete your course inside the UK, you won’t be able to apply to the Graduate route when you are awarded your qualification.
Most Masters, Bachelors and PhD qualifications awarded by the University of Essex are eligible qualifications.
If you are studying for a qualification that is below degree level or for a PG Diploma or Certificate you will not be eligible.
It is only possible to apply from inside the UK for permission to stay under the Graduate route.
You must be able to meet all the Graduate route requirements, including those on UK residency.
If you have dependants and they are in the UK with immigration permission as your dependent, they can apply for permission to stay as your Graduate route dependent.
Dependants who are not already in the UK with a dependent visa will not be able to apply, except where a dependent child was born in the UK during a period of Student or Graduate permission.
Those who were granted Tier 4 (DES) or Graduate route permission to stay previously won’t be eligible to apply.
If you have completed a course lasting 12 months or less, the whole of the course must have been studied inside the UK on a valid student visa.
If your course lasts longer than 12 months, you will need to have been granted student immigration permission for at least 12 months and have spent that time studying in the UK.
If you switch from another type of immigration permission into the Student route part way through your course, you may not be able to meet the UK residency requirements to be eligible for the Graduate route if you haven’t been in the UK with a Student visa for the minimum length of time.
There are Home Office concessions relating to residence in the UK due to the impact of COVID-19 so if you are unable to meet the above requirements these may mean you can still meet the UK residency criteria.
You must make sure you are studying inside the UK by the relevant date specified in the Home Office Graduate route caseworker guidance and the Home Office Covid-19 concessions guidance.
Links to the Immigration Rules and Guidance can be found in the ‘Advice and Guidance’ section below.
At the time of writing (2 March 2022) the following concessions are in place:
You must be able to meet all the Graduate route rules and requirements and have received confirmation from the University that your successful completion has been reported to the Home Office for Graduate route purposes.
You must have a valid student visa (Tier 4 or Student route) on the date you apply.
The Home Office have stated that those who have been granted Exceptional Assurance may be able to apply, all other criteria must be met.
Once the Exam Board of Examiners has awarded your qualification and your student record has been updated to reflect this, if it is a qualification that meets the requirements of the Graduate route, we will carry out other necessary checks as outlined in Document 2 of the Student Sponsor Guidance .
If we are satisfied, your successful completion will be reported to the Home Office via their Sponsor Management System.
You will receive a notification email from the International Services team that the successful completion report has been sent to the Home Office.
It will take a few days for checks to be completed and your successful completion to be reported to the Home Office so please do not contact us as soon as you receive your award.
If you do not receive an email to your essex.ac.uk address confirming the report to the Home Office within 10 working days of receiving your final exam board results awarding your Masters, Bachelors or PhD qualification, please contact our International Services Team via the online enquiry form for current students so we can check our records.
If you are a Masters, Bachelors or PhD student, your student visa expires within 10 days of your final results being released and you haven’t yet received an email from us telling you we’ve reported your successful completion to the Home Office, contact our International Services team via the online enquiry form for current students .
If you have been awarded your qualification and are choosing to take voluntary reassessment, we will aim to report your successful completion to the Home Office when the University reassessment period is over, provided all other criteria are met.
If your student visa expires before you are due to complete your reassessment, please contact our International Services team via our online enquiry form for current students .
If you haven’t been awarded your qualification and must re-submit coursework, your dissertation or re-take exams, you will not have successfully completed your course.
If your student visa is still valid when you have received your final results following reassessment and you meet all criteria, we would report your successful completion at that time.
If you are required to undertake reassessment inside the UK after your current student visa expires, please contact the International Services team to request a CAS via our online enquiry form for current students .
If you are eligible for a CAS and meet all the Student Immigration Rules and requirements, you will be able to apply for permission to study in the UK under the Student route, we are not able to sponsor students for reassessment that can be undertaken remotely from overseas.
You can only apply if you have successfully completed an eligible Masters, Bachelors or PhD qualification, you can meet all the Graduate route Immigration Rules and requirements and we have reported your successful completion to the Home Office.
If you have completed a Masters but were sponsored for a PhD or, you are awarded an unaccredited version of the course shown on your CAS or, you changed your course to one of the same level and did not have to make a new Student visa application first, please contact the International Services team via the online enquiry form for current students as soon as your final results are released.
Do not make a Graduate route application until we have confirmed we have been able to report your successful completion to the Home Office.
If you have been awarded a lower-level qualification, for instance a PG Diploma or PG Certificate, you won’t have successfully completed an eligible qualification and will not be eligible to apply to the Graduate route.
While your Graduate route application is pending, you can continue to work under the conditions of your Student or Tier 4 permission.
Read UKCISA’s guidance about Student work .
Most Essex students will have a Student or Tier 4 visa that allows them to work up to 20 hours per week in term time, once you have completely finished all aspects of your course including any reassessment and your CAS course end date is past, you will no longer be in term time and can work unrestricted hours, however, the type of work you can do is still restricted until you are granted your Graduate route permission to stay.
Read the UKCISA guidance regarding the type of work you can do with student immigration permission before you start work.
If you do any work that isn’t allowed, you’ll be in breach of your immigration conditions, this is a criminal offence.
When your Graduate route permission is issued you can do any work, either employed or self-employed, except working as a professional sportsperson or coach.
You can take work at any level of salary or skill, but if your plan is to find a job for which you can eventually be sponsored under the Skilled Worker route, you should check which jobs are eligible for that .
For information about what work you can do when you have been granted your Graduate route permission to stay please read the Graduate Immigration Rules .
Home Office rules and guidance:
Please read the UKCISA guidance about working after studies and specifically their Graduate route guidance for more information.
University advisers are only able to offer immigration advice regarding the UK’s Student Immigration Rules and guidance.
If you require further immigration advice you will need to contact UKCISA’s student advice line or an immigration solicitor.
You will need to be sponsored by your employer to apply under The Skilled Worker route.
We recommend reading the UKCISA guidance and the Home Office website for more information.
The Home Office amended the Immigration Rules on 17 July 2023 and this has affected students wanting to switch into the Skilled Worker route within the UK.
If you are offered sponsorship by an employer under The Skilled Worker route and are a PhD student who has studied for 24 months or more, you can request a letter from the University to evidence that you meet the minimum study requirement.
For undergraduate and masters students, you can only now switch to a Skilled Worker visa within the UK once your course is complete or, once you are within 3 months of completing your course provided that your Certificate of Sponsorship (CoS) will have a start date no earlier than your course completion date.
Where you have completed your course, you can use your award certificate or Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) to evidence this.
Students who have completed their studies but are still yet to receive formal confirmation of their degree result should be able to download a Certificate of Registration which confirms their course completion date.
However, if your original course completion date was extended for reassessment and your Certificate of Registration still shows an “expected” completion date for your course, you may need to wait for your degree outcome to be issued before you can evidence course completion.
For those within 3 months of course completion, the University can issue you a letter to support your Skilled Worker application but will only do so where we receive evidence from you of your CoS start date.
You can request a letter from our International Services team to support your Skilled Worker application by filling in our online enquiry form for current students.
When requesting a letter, please confirm your intended start date and your employer’s details.
If you have been issued with a Certificate of Sponsorship (CoS), please confirm this.
Our International Services team are not authorised to provide immigration advice about applying to the Skilled Worker route.
If you require immigration advice you can ask your employer, an immigration lawyer or contact the UKCISA student advice line .
To read about all the current immigration routes that allow work and find out if you might be eligible read the UKCISA Information and guidance on working after studies .
For further immigration advice about applying for permission to stay in the UK to work after you’ve finished studying, contact the UKCISA student advice line .
University advisers are only able to provide advice and guidance about the Student Immigration Rules so if you require further advice you will need to contact an immigration lawyer .
Our Student Services Hubs provide information and guidance for students and Essex graduates.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/academic-excellence-international-masters-scholarship:
If you're an international student, took your undergraduate degree overseas or in the UK and are self-funding your postgraduate studies, you could be eligible for a scholarship worth up to £7,000, paid as a discount on your tuition fee.
Masters degree B+ or 60% or 3.5/5 or 3.0/4.0 Undergraduate degree awarded by the following institutions with an academic requirement of 75% or 4.5/5.0 -
65% or above, where pass mark is 33%, or 70% or above, where pass mark is 50%, or 80% or above where the pass mark is 60%, or CGPA 3.00 or above
Undergraduate degree awarded by the following institutions only -
CGPA 2.8 or above, or 68% (in a Law degree awarded by Thammasat University) CGPA 2.55 or above, or 65.5% (in a Law degree awarded by Thammasat University)
£5,000
£4,000
If you meet all the eligibility criteria, you will automatically be considered for this award.
You don’t need to complete an application form.
The University will assess your eligibility based on the academic transcripts and certificates you submit with your application for your place at Essex.
Please read the full terms and conditions before applying for or accepting a scholarship or bursary.
They contain important information about eligibility, if you need to complete an application form and how you'll receive your funding.
Academic Excellence International Masters Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)
If you're a current student looking for information about an award you received, see our terms and conditions for previous years .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/academic-excellence-senior-status-law-scholarship:
If you're an international student studying the Law LLB M103 (Senior Status) programme you could be eligible for a scholarship worth £3,000, which you'll receive as a fee discount in your first year of study.
Academic Excellence Senior Status Law Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/africa-regional-scholarship:
If you're an international student from a member state of the African Union and are self-funding your undergraduate studies, you could be eligible for a scholarship, paid as a discount on your tuition fee.
The University will assess your eligibility based on your country of domicile and fee status that you submit on your application for your place at Essex.
Africa Scholarship Programme Undergraduate - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/africa-scholarship-programme:
If you're an international student from a member state of the African Union and are self-funding your postgraduate studies, you could be eligible for a scholarship, paid as a discount on your tuition fee.
For details of the scholarship amount, country of residence and academic requirement, please see T&Cs below.
Africa Scholarship Programme Postgraduate - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/alumni-loyalty-discount:
The University is offering a tuition fee discount to students who successfully completed a University of Essex validated Bachelors degree, Masters degree, Postgraduate Diploma or Graduate Diploma, either at Essex or one of our partner institutions .
The discount is available to students studying at Masters level following the completion of an Undergraduate course; or PhD level following the completion of a Masters at Essex.
The amount discounted will depend on the achievement of the previous University of Essex validated qualification as below:
The University will assess your eligibility based on the academic transcripts and certificates held on file.
Alumni Loyalty Discount - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/always-essex-staff-discount-scholarship:
The University is offering a tuition fee discount to applicants who are former employees of the University of Essex (UoE), UoE Campus Services or a UoE subsidiary company for a minimum of three consecutive years of more than 0.5 full time equivalent (FTE) hours throughout that period.
The discount is available to students studying at Undergraduate and Postgraduate (Masters and Research) level, who start their course in the 2025-26 academic year.
Scholarship amount: 33% discount of the first-year tuition fee (first two years for part-time study)
You will need to complete and submit the Always Essex Staff Discount Application form 2025-2026 (.docx) and inform the Admissions Office at the time of your course application that you have submitted the form to be considered for the Always Essex Staff Discount.
The University will assess eligibility based on the application form, in consultation with University of Essex People and Culture, to confirm prior employment.
They contain important information about eligibility, how to apply and how you'll receive your funding.
Always Essex Staff Discount Terms and Conditions 2025-2026 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/asia-west-central-north-undergraduate-scholarship:
If you're an international student from one of the above countries and you're funding your own studies, you could be eligible for a scholarship worth £3,000 which you'll receive as a tuition fee discount in your first year.
Asia (West-Central-North) Undergraduate Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/care-experience-bursary:
If you're a new or continuing undergraduate or postgraduate student who was in UK local authority care at any point in your life, for any period of time, you could be eligible for a bursary of up to £1,500 for the academic year 2024-2025.
For details on how to apply, please follow the instructions on the Care Experience page.
Please read the full terms and conditions for your entry year before applying for a university fund.
They contain important information about eligibility, evidence required and how to apply.
Care Experienced Bursary terms and conditions 2024-25 .(pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/chinese-english-translation-scholarships:
If you’re an international student studying one of our Chinese-English Translation and Interpreting programmes, you could be eligible for £3,000 through our Chinese-English Scholarship.
There are five scholarships available.
All course applications received by 30 June 2025 will automatically be considered for this scholarship.
You do not need to complete a separate application form.
Please read the full terms and conditions for your entry year before applying for or accepting a scholarship or bursary.
They contain important information about eligibility, how you'll receive your funding and whether this award can be combined with others or not.
Chinese-English Translation Scholarships - Terms and Conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)
If you're a current student looking for information about an award you received, see our terms and conditions for previous years.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/dsa-laptop-contribution-fund:
If you have applied for Disabled Students' Allowance and your confirmation of funding letter includes the purchase of a laptop, you may be awarded a one-off £200 grant to cover your contribution towards the cost of the laptop.
Details and terms and conditions for academic year 2024-25 will be advertised shortly.
DSA Laptop Contribution Fund terms and conditions 2024-25 (.pdf)
Note: your application will not be assessed until we receive a full and complete application form, including all evidence necessary to complete an assessment.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/essex-futures-bursary:
Up to £3,000 support package is being offered to UK Students with a household income of £35,000 or under (as assessed by Student Finance England), who are starting a three-year undergraduate course in 2025-2026.
The bursary value will depend on household income, to comprise the following:
£1,000 cash bursary
£2,000 applied as a credit against your university owned or administered accommodation fees
Essex Futures is our promise to support the next generation by providing financial support to those whose impact on the world would be missed.
A proportion of the Essex Futures Bursary is funded through philanthropic fundraising at Essex.
Essex Futures Bursary 2025-2026 - Terms and Conditions (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/essex-futures-refugee-care-scholarship:
The Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies is offering scholarships to assist postgraduate students taking the full-time on-campus or online MA Refugee Care course within the Department.
The scholarship, which is open to all successful applicants to either of these two courses, covers all the university fees.
To be considered for these awards, you must complete and submit the application form (.doc) to ppsdm@essex.ac.uk by 30 June 2025  11:00 (GMT).
Applications received after this deadline will not be considered.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/essex-global-partner-scholarship-masters:
If you’re an international student studying at one of our University Transfer Partners you could be eligible for a tuition fee discount.
For details of the partners and discount amount, please refer to the T&Cs below, depending on the academic year of study.
No alternative supporting evidence will be accepted.
Essex Global Partner Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/essex-global-partner-scholarship-undergraduate:
If you're an international student studying at one of our Global Partner Institutions listed below and are self-funding your undergraduate studies, you could be eligible for a tuition fee discount of up to 20% or a scholarship of up to £1,500.
For details of the partner institutions eligible and the discount amount, please refer to the T&Cs below.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/essex-global-talent-scholarship:
If you're an international undergraduate or master’s student from one of the specified countries seeking to join our University, you could be eligible for a scholarship which is 50% of your first year tuition fee, paid as a discount on registration.
This scholarship is competitive and based on academic achievement and extra-curricular engagement.
To be considered for these awards you must complete and submit the application form (.doc) by 31 May 2025.
Essex Global Talent Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/essex-law-global-partner-scholarship:
If you're an international student studying at one of our Law global channel partners detailed in the table below, you could be eligible for a scholarship worth up to 20% of published International fees, which you'll receive as a tuition fee discount distributed across your years of study.
Advanced Tertiary College (ATC) (UKT and UOL programmes)
Brickfield Asia College (UKT and UOL programmes)
The University will assess your eligibility based on the academic transcripts and certificates that you submit with your application for your place at Essex.
Essex Law Global Partner Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/essex-preparation-programme-bursary:
The University is offering a £250 cash bursary to students who complete the pre-arrival online study skills course, designed to help them make the transition into university study.
You will need to complete the pre-arrival study skills course by 23:59 on 8 October 2025 entry.
You must fully complete the course and receive the certificate of completion.
You will be automatically identified and will be notified via your Essex email by the end of October, if you meet the eligibility criteria listed above.
Essex Preparation Programme Bursary – Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/essex-ukt-law-global-partner-premium-scholarship:
If you're an international student studying at one of our UKT Law global channel partners, listed in the table below, you could be eligible for a scholarship to the value of 50% fee discount, for your first year of study.
Advanced Tertiary College (ATC)
Brickfield Asia College
Taylors University
To be considered for these awards you must complete and submit the application below by 11 July 2025.
Alongside the application form, you must submit a 500-word supporting essay which will be considered by the selection panel alongside other applications.
Essex UKT Law Global Partner Premium Scholarship – application form (.docx)
Essex UKT Law Global Partner Premium - terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/essex-undergraduate-early-bird-discount:
If you're an international student studying at one of our listed global channel partners, you could be eligible for a tuition fee discount of £1,000 for your first year of study only.
Advanced Tertiary College (ATC) Brickfields Asia College (BAC) Business UKT programme
Taylors College (only when students apply via Taylor's placement centre)
Taylors University (only when students apply via Taylor's placement centre)
Essex Undergraduate Early Bird Discount - terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry .pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/estranged-bursary:
If you're a new or continuing undergraduate or postgraduate student who is estranged from your parents, you could be eligible for a bursary of up to £1,500 for academic year 2023-24.
Estranged Bursary terms and conditions 2024-25 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/eu-scholarship:
This scholarship scheme is for EU undergraduate students studying as new students in academic year 2025-2026, who are classified as international students for fees purposes.
The awards offered are a discount of £5,000 for each year of full-time undergraduate study  automatically deducted from your annual tuition fees invoice.
We'll assess your eligibility based on the information that you submit with your application for your place at Essex.
If you meet all the eligibility criteria, you will automatically be considered for this scholarship.
You don't need to complete an application form.
EU Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/europe-(non-european-union)-regional-scholarship:
Europe (non-EU) Regional Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/great-scholarship:
The GREAT Scholarships programme is a joint initiative by the British Council and the UK Government, designed to attract some of the brightest postgraduates from around the world to study at UK universities.
Please complete the application form (.docx) and submit to greatscholarships@essex.ac.uk by 31 May 2025.
Successful applicants will be notified on or before 30 June 2025.
GREAT Scholarship terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/hong-kong-scholarship:
The University of Essex is pleased to offer two scholarships funded by the generous donations of a group of Essex Alumni based in Hong Kong.
This scholarship scheme is for students from Hong Kong studying as new students in academic year 2025-2026, who are classified as international students for fees purposes.
The awards offered are a discount of £5,000 per year for a maximum of three years of full-time undergraduate study, up to a maximum of £15,000.
The scholarship will be automatically deducted from annual tuition fees invoice.
You can apply for the award by completing an application form (.docx) and submitting it to thankyou@essex.ac.uk
The deadline to apply for this scholarship is 31 July 2025.
The successful awardees will be selected based on the responses to the questions on the application form as well as the academic achievements detailed in their course application.
Successful applicants will be notified by the end of August 2025.
Hong Kong scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/hugh-brogan-scholarship:
If you are applying to study MA History, MA History, Power, and Identity, or MA War, Culture, and Society, you could be eligible for one of four available scholarships worth £2,500, paid as a discount on your tuition fee.
The Scholarships are open to all applicants in need of financial support.
In the absence of other determining factors, priority will be given to students from Global Majority/BAME backgrounds.
This policy addresses the historic under-representation of students from these backgrounds within the discipline of History.
These Scholarships come courtesy of a bequest from Professor Hugh Brogan, a long-time member of the Department of History at Essex who remained actively involved in the Department following his retirement in the late 1990s.
All students who hold an offer for the MA History, MA History, Power, and Identity, or MA War, Culture, and Society will be contacted in August 2024 and invited to apply for the Scholarships.
Applicants will be asked to submit a short personal statement that outlines:
Hugh Brogan Scholarship Terms and Conditions 2024-25

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/ian-james-evans-scholarship:
Essex Law School is offering one scholarship to an undergraduate student studying an LLB course and who is deaf, blind or a wheelchair user, to cover Home (UK) tuition fees (or an equivalent discount for international students) and £500 per year towards books and other course costs.
To be considered for these awards you must complete and submit the application form (.docx) to lawscholarships@essex.ac.uk by Thursday 31 July 2025 by 11.59pm (GMT).
On the application for you will need to include an essay demonstrating how the scholarship would enable you to meet your legal aspiration.
Ian James Evans Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/international-baccalaureate-excellence-scholarship:
If you're starting at Essex in 2025-2026 and achieve academic excellence in your International Baccalaureate, we will offer you a scholarship of £2,000 for your first year of study.
If you are eligible, you will be notified via email from August and within 2 weeks of meeting the eligibility criteria.
International Baccalaureate Excellence Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/international-schools-and-colleges-scholarship:
If you're an international undergraduate student who has attended one of the schools
or colleges detailed in the terms and conditions below, you could be eligible for a
20% discount on your tuition fees for each year of your studies (max 3 years).
The scholarship is awarded as a partial tuition fee waiver and is available for
students on undergraduate courses only.
Bridge House College D'IVY College, Lagos Global International College Regent College, AbujaWisdom House College Westfield College (campuses in Lagos, Abuja, Kano)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/itesm-doble-grado-tuition-fee-discount:
If you're an Instituto Technologico y de Estudios de Monterrey (ITESM) student applying to the “Doble Grado”, you could be eligible for a 50% tuition fee discount for your year of study at the University of Essex.
ITESM and the University will assess your eligibility based on the academic transcripts and certificates you submit with your application for your place at Essex.
Essex ITESM Doble Grado Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/latin-america-and-the-caribbean-translation-scholarship:
Five scholarships of £5,000 each are available for students holding an unconditional offer for 2025-26 to study MA Translation, Interpreting & Subtitling or MA Translation & Professional Practice (Spanish or Portuguese strands only).
The scholarships will be awarded on the basis of academic merit.
To be considered for these awards you must complete and submit the application form (.pdf) by 30 June 2025.
Latin America and the Caribbean Translation Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/latin-america-and-the-caribbean-undergraduate-scholarship:
This scholarship scheme is for international students from the specified countries, listed above, seeking to join our University.
The award is offered as a discount and will be deducted from your tuition fees of your undergraduate degree at Essex in 2025-26.
Coutry

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/ma-jungian-and-post-jungian-referral-bursary:
The University is offering ten £100 referral bursaries to current University of Essex students or alumni of the MA Jungian and Post Jungian Studies course, who refer an individual (prospective student) who subsequently enrols on either the online or Colchester based course in October 2025.
The £100 bursary will be offered in the form of an Amazon voucher.
Individuals can refer a student to the MA Jungian and Post Jungian Studies course by emailing their full name and email address to pps@essex.ac.uk no later than 10 October 2025.
Confirmation of receipt of the referral will be provided by return email.
Award of the bursary will be made by 28 November 2025 via email, based on the terms and conditions above, including:
MA Jungian and Post Jungian Referral Bursary T&Cs 2025-26 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/ma-refugee-care-referral-bursary:
The University is offering ten £100 referral bursaries to current University of Essex students or alumni of the MA Refugee Care course, who refer an individual (prospective student) who subsequently enrols on the online course in October 2025.
Individuals can refer a student to the MA Refugee Care course by emailing their full name and email address to pps@essex.ac.uk no later than 10 October 2025.
MA Refugee Care Referral Bursary T&Cs 2025-26 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/masters-excellence-scholarship:
If you are a home (UK) student and have a first class degree from a UK university, you could be eligible for a 25% discount on your Essex Masters tuition fee.
Masters Excellence Scholarship terms and conditions 2025-2026 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/masters-pgt-eu-scholarship:
This scholarship is for EU postgraduate taught (Masters) students who are classified as international students for fees purposes.
The awards offered are a discount of up to £5,500 automatically deducted from your tuition fees.
Masters (PGT) EU Scholarships - terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/media-fellowship-programme-scholarship:
The University of Essex is offering 10 scholarships to applicants who are ordinarily resident in India, are media professionals, and have successfully ensured the participation in the University of Essex Media Fellowship Programme.
The fellowship programme lasts for ten months, of which three months in the period of June-August 2024 are dedicated to the summer residential programme consisting of in-person courses on the University’s Colchester campus.
This scholarship supports the fellows to undertake this in-person summer programme.
You will need to apply for place to study on the University of Essex Media Fellowship Programme at the same time as you apply for funding.
There is one single form to apply for the Fellowship Programme and to apply for the related Scholarship and it must be accompanied by a personal CV/resume.
To apply, download the application form (.docx) and return it along with a CV/resume, to Ms Carrie Picket, Faculty Operations Manager (Faculty of Arts and Humanities), at carrie.pickett@essex.ac.uk .
The deadline to apply is Wednesday 10 April 2024, 3pm BST .
Please note that if your application is shortlisted, interviews will take place during the afternoon (IST time) of either Thursday 18 April, Friday 19 April or Monday 22 April.
University of Essex Media Fellowship Programme Scholarship - 2024 - Terms and Conditions (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/middle-east-scholarship:
Middle East Scholarship Programme Undergraduate - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/nihr-applied-mental-health-phd-studentships:
The University of Essex is working with partners at Kings College London and University of Cambridge on a NIHR funded programme of applied mental health research to address key mental health challenges in Essex, Southend and Thurrock (Greater Essex).
We will be offering 2 PhD Studentships to work on this project whilst studying one of the following courses:
Successful applicants will receive a PhD scholarship for up to a maximum of three years of study, including:
All PhD students also benefit from the University of Essex Proficio funding which provides up to £2,500 for additional training and conferences.
Research priorities for our programme of research have been identified by our existing mental health research stakeholder group; by Essex County Council Joint Health and Wellbeing Strategy; and findings from our preliminary research within the NIHR East of England Applied Research Collaboration programme on mental health inequalities using Understanding Society data.
In addition, the high level of mental health burden across Essex, Southend and Thurrock falls predominantly in coastal areas making these populations high priority for research.
Based on these priorities, the overall focus for our programme of research is tackling loneliness and social isolation among young adults in coastal communities, ensuring young LGBT and ethnic minority needs are addressed equally.
The 2 PhD studentships will be based within our programme research team and will undertake projects associated with this wider programme of research.
The specific focus of each PhD will be shaped by the student, their supervisors and in collaboration with our stakeholders who include representatives from local providers of health and social care support including voluntary and third sector providers.
Projects will also be informed through working with our Patient and Public Involvement representatives.
Projects may be qualitative, quantitative or mixed methods.
Projects may involve use of population datasets (such as Understanding Society ) for longitudinal secondary data analysis or they may involve primary data collection.
Potential project topics may be proposed which link in some way to the overall focus of the programme above including loneliness, social isolation, young adult mental health, mental health inequalities and coastal communities.
In particular we would like one of the PhDs to address either loneliness and associations with suicidality and/or drug and alcohol use.
Supervisors will be allocated from among the project team (including staff from Essex, Kings and Cambridge) based on topic and method.
The project team members are below and additional team members will join over the coming months:
Prof Susan McPherson , Prof Meena Kumari , Dr Emily Murray , Dr Cara Booker , Prof Roisin Ryan-Flood , Dr Antonella Trotta , Prof Craig Morgan , Prof Tamsin Ford .
PhD students will be based with the team at the Institute for Public Health and Wellbeing but may also have the opportunity to make visits to our partners at Kings and Cambridge.
You should apply separately for the Studentship and the PhD Course.
To apply for the studentship, please email the following to Dr Victoria Nolan at vlnolan@essex.ac.uk by the application deadline of 4pm GMT on Monday 3 November 2025  and include the following documents:
We expect to invite shortlisted candidates for an interview during the week commencing 17 November 2025.
To apply for the PhD course, please apply through our standard online application process , which is quick and straightforward.
You should note in your application that you are also applying for this studentship, and that a supervisor will be allocated to successful awardees.
Learn more about postgraduate research at the University of Essex.
You should apply for a place to study as soon as possible, and at the latest by 4pm GMT on Monday  3 November 2025.
Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/postgraduate-conversion-courses:
Our Data Science and AI Scholarship is available to new Postgraduate Taught (PGT) Masters students from the UK taking up a place to study in the academic year 2024-25.
Three of our courses (linked below) have been created with humanities and social science students in mind who are interested in converting to a Masters degree in data science or AI, even if they have no background in either of these areas.
The scholarship comprises of a £10,000 award to be used in one of the following ways:
To be considered for these awards you must complete and submit the  application form for your start date before the relevant deadline:
Applications received after this deadline will not be assessed.
To be considered for an AI and Data Science Scholarship you must complete and submit the application form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/postgraduate-masters-international-health-bursary:
We are offering a PGT international health bursary to postgraduate taught students starting at Essex in the 2024-25 or 2025-26 academic year to reimburse the costs of the NHS international health surcharge for the duration of your course (to the maximum value of £766).
Students may also be eligible to a range of generous scholarships .
We will identify eligible students.
If you are eligible to receive this bursary, you will be contacted via your Essex email account.
Full details
PGT International Health Bursary - Terms and Conditions 2024-2025 entry (.pdf)
PGT International Health Bursary - Terms and Conditions 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/postgraduate-research-eu-scholarship:
This scholarship scheme is for EU postgraduate research students (including MRes, MAD, MSD, MPHil, PhD) studying as new students in academic year 2025-26 who are classified as international students for fees purposes.
The awards offered are a discount of £8,000 for each year of full-time postgraduate research degree (up to a maximum total of £32,000 for a four-year integrated PGR Degree), automatically deducted from your annual tuition fees invoice.
PGR EU Scholarship - terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/refugee-bursary:
Details and terms and conditions for the academic year 2024-25 will be advertised shortly.
Note: your application will not be assessed until we receive a full and complete declaration form, including all evidence necessary to complete an assessment.
Refugee bursary terms and conditions 2024-25 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/sanctuary-scholarship:
The University of Sanctuary Scholarship is available to new Postgraduate Taught (PGT) Masters students taking up a place to study in 2025-2026, who have UK Asylum status or Discretionary/Limited Leave to Remain as a result of an asylum application, and those with Humanitarian Protection, as result of an asylum application or through a dependants claim.
Apply for the Sanctuary Scholarship using the application form provided on the information page and send to funding@essex.ac.uk , along with evidence of your immigration status, and a letter of reference.
The deadline for applications will close on:
University of Sanctuary Scholarship terms and conditions for 2025-26 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/schools-and-colleges-membership-bursary:
The University is offering eligible students a £1,000 bursary if they are from Schools Membership (Plus, London, South East and Midlands) schools and colleges, progressing to an undergraduate course at the University of Essex in October 2025-26.
Please see Terms and Conditions for a full list of eligible schools.
Please note, from 2025, this award will be called Schools and Colleges Membership Bursary.
There is no application process.
Successful students will be contacted via email by the end of September 2025.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/schools-membership-staff-tcto-fee-discount:
The University is offering a tuition fee discount of 25% to members of staff at our Schools Membership institutions (listed in the T&C document below), who wish to undertake the FdA Therapeutic Communications and Therapeutic Organisations course, based either at our Colchester Campus or online.
The discount will apply to each year of study.
If you've put on your application that you're currently employed by a Schools Membership  institution then you'll automatically receive this discount, once we've received a letter from your employer confirming this.
If you didn't include this information in your application for a place, please email pgquery@essex.ac.uk with a letter from your employer.
Once we've received this and it's approved, the fee discount will be applied at the point of confirmation by the Graduate Admissions office.
It will be applied as a reduction of 25% on the annual tuition fee for each year of study for your course.
Successful students will be contacted via email by the end of September 2024 for 2024 entry.
and the end of September 2025 for 2025 entry.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/sociology-and-criminology-fuller-pgt-scholarship:
The Department of Sociology and Criminology is offering scholarships of £10,500 to support six postgraduate students to study within the department in 2025-2026.
Priority will be given to students applying to study MA Policing or MSC Policing and Data Analytics , however, applicants applying for any MSc/MA course within Sociology and Criminology are welcome to apply.
We have been extremely fortunate to offer these scholarships award due to the kind donation from Miss J.H.
Fuller, who wished to support students through their studies within the Sociology and Criminology Department.
You can apply for the award by completing an application form (.docx) and submitting it to our Sociology and Criminology PGT Administrator - socpgtad@essex.ac.uk
The deadline to apply for this scholarship is Friday 30 May 2025.
Sociology and Criminology Fuller PGT Scholarship Terms and Conditions 2025-2026 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/sociology-and-criminology-summer-abroad-grant:
The Department of Sociology and Criminology is offering grants to support second, third and final year undergraduate students to complete a summer school abroad.
There are five grants available worth a total of £1,000 each, which can be used towards the cost of attending one of three staff recommended summer schools in Mexico , Brazil , the Netherlands or an Essex Abroad summer school programme.
You can apply for the award by completing an application form (.docx) and submitting it to socda@essex.ac.uk .
The deadline to apply for this fund is 10:00am on Monday 24 February 2025.
They contain essential information about eligibility, if you need to complete an application form and how you will receive your funding.
Sociology and Criminology Summer Abroad Grants T&Cs 2025 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/south-asia-regional-scholarship:
If you're an international student from one of the above countries and you're funding your own studies, you could be eligible for a scholarship, which you'll receive as a tuition fee discount.
South Asia Regional Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/south-east-asia-regional-scholarship:
South East Asia Regional Scholarship - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/sports-scholarships-and-bursaries:
We are looking for scholars competing in our focus sports, other team sports and individual athletes to contribute to our performance sport programme.
The University of Essex is committed to supporting and developing high performance athletes.
The talented athlete is at the heart of our ambitious programme to deliver sporting excellence.
We believe that through our commitment to continuous improvement, cutting-edge sports research, excellence in education and willingness to leave no stone unturned, we can assist athletes to fulfil their athletic potential.
Our performance sport scholarships are aimed at talented athletes playing at regional, national or international level.
Alongside performance coaching, recipients of the Performance Sport Scholarship programme may also receive additional support services package benefits such as free kit, use of facilities and access to a range of support services worth up to of £1,500 per year (details outlined below).
Successful awardees will be notified in their Award Letter of the specific scholarship package they are being offered.
The Award Letter should be read in conjunction with these terms and conditions.
Our Performance Sport Scholarship programme has four different tiers:
*Some exceptional athletes in receipt of a tier 1 scholarship may also receive additional financial support.
Under Tier 1 of the Performance Sport Scholarship programme, we award a number of tuition fee discounts to students on University of Essex undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research courses.
Fee discounts available for students commencing their studies at Essex in 2025-26 are:
Explore our basketball programme
Explore our Volleyball programme
Explore the football programme
Explore the Tennis programme
*The University reserves the right to vary the number of scholarships awarded based on profile of applicants and the number of full-time versus part-time students applying for the scholarships.
**In case of UK undergraduate students, this would be a fee discount for all years of study (but the University reserves the right to remove them from the scholarship programme as per the terms and conditions in the athlete contract, i.e., not meeting standard expected, no longer participating).
Additional benefits include
Performance Sport Scholarship Programme Terms and Conditions 2025-26 (.pdf)
Applications for our sports scholarships and bursaries for the 2025-26 academic year closed on 18 May 2025.
Successful awards will only be offered subject to acceptance on a course at our Colchester Campus.
Please be sure to read through the requirements and terms and conditions for the awards before applying.
If you're up for the challenge and meet the academic eligibility criteria, we have generous fee waiver scholarships up to 100%, cash bursaries plus additional support packages available to financially help support your time here with us.
If you have any queries please email performancesport@essex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/study-abroad-bursary:
The Essex Abroad Bursary is funding awarded by the University of Essex to recognise and acknowledge high academic achievement.
Through this we support students by providing a bursary of up to £500 to assist with additional costs to fund their year studying abroad.
You do not need to apply for funding for the Essex Abroad Bursary for your year abroad.
Essex Abroad will be in touch with eligible students.
We will contact those eligible using your University of Essex email account.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/study-abroad-summer-international-experience-bursary:
Through the International Experience Bursary, we support students from lower income households to access these experiences by providing a bursary of up to £1,000 to fund their summer activity abroad.
Cost can be a significant barrier for students looking to access international internships, placements, volunteering or other educational experiences, e.g.
conferences or summer schools.
The activity must be of 1 to 12 week duration over the summer vacation (7 to 84 Days).
Your travel must usually take place between 1 May and 30 September and you must be a registered student on the date of travel to be eligible.
Applications are now open and you can apply via our application portal below.
Applications close on Monday 25 March 2024 at 9am.
In the meantime, if you have any questions, please contact us via eagrants@essex.ac.uk
Be participating in an overseas experience for a minimum of one week and maximum of 12 weeks (7 – 84 days) .
Applications open on Monday 13 January 2025 and close on Monday 24 March 2025 and we will only accept applications via our online portal.
We aim to be in touch with all applicants within 10 working days.
Apply for the International Experience Bursary .
Applications will take around 10 to 15 minutes to complete.
If you have any questions please contact us via eagrants@essex.ac.uk
Usually, priority will be given to students who:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/study-abroad-summer-travel-grants:
We offer a range of travel grants designed to help if you're planning to travel to support your research or studies over the summer.
Each summer, one of each grant is available.
Applications open Monday 13 January 2025 and close Monday 24 March 2025 and we will only accept applications via our online portal.
Apply for Summer Travel Grants .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/study-abroad-summer-turing-scheme:
We are delighted that we've been award Turing Scheme funding for the fourth year running and will be able to support more students to gain an international experience during 2024-2025.
Turing Scheme funding can be accessed by students who are taking part in shorter term (minimum 28 days) activities including summer schools, international internships, volunteering abroad and research abroad programmes.
These programmes can take place anywhere in the world.
Please note, we have limited funding and students will need to apply for the funding and are advised to read the eligibility criteria below before submitting their application.
Applications are now open, and you can read more about how to apply below.
Turing Scheme funding is considered a general contribution to cost of living and travel costs, therefore students should budget accordingly based on their destination and duration of their programme.
We hope that this funding can help to provide life changing opportunities to students and additional support is available for students from a widening participation background.
There are no maximum number of placements a single student can undertake.
Therefore, you can apply for funding for a summer abroad programme as well as being eligible for study abroad year funding or future summer programme funding.
In this case, the durations of the placements must not overlap (as this would result in dual funding).
If you have any queries on this, please email eagrants@essex.ac.uk
All students are welcome to apply for Turing Scheme summer abroad funding, but priority will be based on the below:
The University of Essex and the Turing Scheme are committed to supporting all students to access international experiences and as such students from a disadvantaged background are eligible to additional costs related to their cost of living and travel costs.
Students from the following groups will be prioritised for funding and supported by the enhanced grant rate.
Please note as part of the group 2 - 6 above you will be asked to provide official proof of your circumstances.
You can view the full list of destinations and grant rates via the Department for Education website .
Students from this group may also receive the following:
(students will need to provide receipts against the above costs in order to be reimbursed).
£380 per month
There are rolling application deadlines, and at each deadline all applications will be considered.
This is to allow Essex Abroad time to request the funding from Turing Scheme and then to allocate it to allocated students.
Applications close on the following dates:
After May, we will accept applications on a weekly basis (should any funding remain) and applications will remain open until mid-July or until all funding has been allocated (whichever happens sooner).
Before applying, please check the above eligibility criteria and contact us via eagrants@essex.ac.uk if you have any questions.
Apply for Summer 2025 Turing funding here .
Please contact us via eagrants@essex.ac.uk if you need any assistance.
All applicants will be contacted via their University of Essex email to receive an outcome on their funding application.
After each deadline closes, we aim to be in contact with all students within 10 working days.
Please note this may take a little longer during peak working periods or vacation periods.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/study-abroad-turing-scheme-funding:
We are delighted that we have secured Turing Scheme funding for 2024-2025.
Students from the following groups will be considered for funding as the first priority.
Remaining funding will then be allocated to students in priority 2.
Students with an annual household income of £42,611 or less (as assessed and verified by Student Finance England or other UK student funding provider).
Any remaining funding will then be allocated based on students first year mark (highest grade).
If you do not receive funding through the Turing Scheme you may wish to look at our country specific funding – you can find this information at the bottom of this webpage.
You can view the full list of destinations and grant rates via the Department for Education website
For HE students who do not meet the above criteria for additional support, there may be other grants available to cover some travel expenses, relevant to the student finance system relevant to the participant:
You do not need to apply for funding for the Turing Scheme for your term or year abroad.
Essex Abroad will be in touch with eligible students in order of priority groups as outlined above.
We will contact you using your University of Essex email account.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/sustainable-transitions---governance-ecological-management-and-society:
The University of Essex is offering four PhD research scholarships on our Sustainable Transitions doctoral training programme for Home/UK applicants.
Successful applicants will receive a full PhD scholarship for up to a maximum of four years of study, including:
All PhD students also benefit from the University of Essex Proficio funding which provides up to £2,500 for additional training and conferences.
It is now widely recognised that the challenges for local, national, and international communities to transition to more environmentally sustainable modes of production, business and industry, agriculture, consumption, energy use, natural resource use and conservation require interdisciplinary approaches to research that combine different streams of expertise from the natural and social sciences.
The Sustainable Transitions - Governance, Ecological Management and Society - Leverhulme Doctoral Training Programme plays an important role in researching those transitions.
It is founded on the world leading expertise in areas of environmental sustainability at the University of Essex.
Each research project is interdisciplinary in nature and supervised by expert academics drawn from two of the following six disciplines at the University - Business, Government, Law, Life Sciences, Maths, and Sociology - to address specific challenges.
You should apply separately for the scholarship and the PhD course applicable to the project that you are applying for.
Please complete the application form (.docx) and email it to SustainableLDTP@essex.ac.uk by 11:59pm on Wednesday 28 May 2025 and attach a 3 page (max) curriculum vitae including educational and academic / professional / working experience.
Please complete the online course application .
For more information see PhD application information .
On the Course page of the application form, there is a section titled ‘ Proposed research topic or area of research * ’.
In the adjacent box please note that you are applying for a Sustainable Transitions scholarship and provide the title of the project.
On the same page, there is a section that states ‘ If you have contacted a potential supervisor to discuss your application or research proposal, please provide the person's full name ’.
In the adjacent box please state the name of the primary discipline supervisor for the project.
You can learn about postgraduate research at the University of Essex more generally on our postgraduate research study pages .
You should apply for a place to study as soon as possible and at the latest by 11:59pm on Wednesday 28 May 2025 .
Prior to applying, please read the Guidance for Applicants document (.docx) which provides further background information and guidance on the content that you should include in your application.
For any queries relating to the programme please contact the Sustainable Transitions Programme Administration at SustainableLDTP@essex.ac.uk
Sustainable Transitions – Governance, Ecological Management and Society – Leverhulme Doctoral Training Programme 2025-26 (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/sustainable-transitions-masters-plus:
The University of Essex is offering three Masters plus PhD research scholarships  on our Sustainable Transitions doctoral training programme for Home / UK applicants  from underrepresented groups.
To be eligible for the Master’s plus PhD Scholarships, candidates must fulfil the following criteria:
And/or
Be one of the following categories of ethnicity:
Successful applicants will receive a full Masters plus PhD scholarship for up to a maximum of five years of study, including:
There are seven different projects that you can apply for under the programme:
If you are successful you will then apply for your Masters degree.
Please complete the application form (.docx) and email it to SustainableLDTP@essex.ac.uk by 11:59pm on Friday 18th April 2025 and attach a 3 page (max) curriculum vitae including educational and academic / professional / working experience.
You should apply for a place to study as soon as possible and at the latest by 11:59pm on Friday 18th April 2025 .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/tcto-referral-bursary:
The University is offering ten £100 referral bursaries to current University of Essex students or alumni of the FdA Therapeutic Communication and Therapeutic Organisations course, who refer an individual (prospective student) who subsequently enrols on either the online or Colchester based course in October 2025.
Individuals can refer a student to the FdA Therapeutic Communication and Therapeutic Organisations course by emailing their full name and email address to pps@essex.ac.uk no later than 10 October 2025.
TCTO Referral Bursary 2025-2026 - terms and conditions (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/the-eleonore-koch-fund:
The School of Philosophical, Historical & Interdisciplinary Studies is offering a bursary of £5,000 to assist one student from Latin America to study the MA in Art History and Theory.
You can apply for the award by completing an application form (.doc) and submitting it to phaissm@essex.ac.uk .
The deadline to apply for this fund is Friday 15 August 2025.
Successful applicants will be notified by email.
The Eleonore Koch Fund - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/the-essex-mba-deans-award:
Essex Business School is offering tuition fee discounts to students funding their own MBA studies.
The school is able to offer fee discounts between 10% - 100% of tuition fee value.
The Essex MBA Dean's Award - October 2025 start - Terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/the-ronald-j-hill-fund:
The department of Government is offering a bursary of £3,000 to assist one postgraduate student within the department of Government to assist with tuition fees or living costs.
We have been extremely fortunate to offer this award due to the kind donation from one of the departments early graduates, and it’s first Masters student to earn his PhD at Essex.
You can apply for the award by completing an application form and submitting it to govpgquery@essex.ac.uk .
The deadline to apply for this fund is 11.59pm GMT 30 June 2025.
The Ronald J Hill Fund – terms and conditions for 2025-2026 entry (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/scholarships/women-in-stem-scholarship:
The Women in STEM scholarship programme, funded by the British Council, provides funding for women from eligible countries to complete a one-year master's degree in the UK in the following courses:
Sign up to our information sessions to find out more about this scholarship:
Link to webinar: Register for the Women in STEM Scholarship information sessions
Please complete the application form (.pdf) and submit to bcwomeninstem@essex.ac.uk by 15 April 2025.
Successful applicants will be notified on or before 12 June 2025.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-funding:
We offer a wide range of scholarships and bursaries to make funding your studies easier.
Our main awards are listed below and you can search our Scholarship Finder to see what else you might be eligible for.
I am ordinarily a resident in:
2024-2025, 2025-2026
Please see below a list of organisations who have previously provided scholarships / bursaries to Essex students.
You will need to check the webpages of each organisation to check if scholarships / bursaries are offered for the current academic year.
Schwab & Westheimer Trust Scholarships
For students who are asylum seekers
If you’re a UK student (or qualify for ‘home’ funding) then you may be eligible to apply for a loan.
The UK Government offers eligible students tuition fee loans and maintenance loans  to help pay for tuition fees and contribute towards living costs.
If you are eligible and choose to take out a loan to cover the full cost of your tuition fees, you won't have to pay any tuition fees upfront and you don't currently have to start repaying the loan until you have finished your course and are earning over the income threshold.
If you have any previous years of higher education study, or you are repeating a year of study, your funding may be affected by repeat funding rules.
Previous years of study include periods of self-funded study, or any study undertaken abroad.
If you think that this may apply to you please see the attached guidance on repeat study (.pdf) and compelling personal reasons (CPR) (.pdf).
A ‘home fees’ assessment by the University does not guarantee Government funding for fees or living costs.
The Student Loans Company will conduct its own eligibility assessment.
If you have been assessed as eligible for home fees based on an application to the EU Settlement Scheme, your entitlement to Student Loans Company funding for fees or living costs may be affected in future years if your status changes.
Once registered at the University, all students, regardless of funding source and fee status, are liable for their fees.
Further information can be found in the University’s Tuition Fees and Liability Policy and on our fee status page .
If you are from Northern Ireland and are thinking of studying with us, you may eligible for funding from Student Finance Northern Ireland .
They offer a tuition fee loan to cover your course fees in full and a Maintenance loan for living costs.
If you are from Scotland and are thinking of studying with us, you may eligible for funding from Student Awards Agency Scotland .
If you are from Wales and are thinking of studying with us, you may eligible for funding from Student Finance Wales .
If your household income (which is the income of your parent/s if you are aged under 25 and not classed as an independent student) is below £62,377 per year, you may be entitled to a higher maintenance loan from Student Finance England (SFE).
SFE assess applications for maintenance loans based on household income.
Therefore, students who do not provide their household income information are awarded only the minimum maintenance loan by SFE, which is currently £4,767 for new students.
By providing your household income information to SFE, your maintenance loan application can be fully assessed and you will be awarded the correct amount of maintenance loan.
This is up to £10,544 for new students on standard-length 39 week courses, and up to £12,647 for students studying long courses such as Nursing.
If your household income has decreased by at least 15% since the relevant tax year, you can apply for a current year income assessment instead of relying on the previous year’s details.
You can check on the Government's website if you’re eligible and how to apply .
To check how much maintenance loan you might be entitled to, based on your household income, visit the Save The Student webpage for a handy guide.
To provide your household income to SFE, please complete and submit this online form to SFE.
SFE will then means-test your application.
If you are entitled to a higher maintenance loan, SFE will make arrangements to increase your instalments in line with this.
We offer a wide range of discounts, bursaries and scholarships to make funding your studies easier, including our Undergraduate EU Scholarship worth £5000.
There are also additional scholarships and funding sources available for some countries, please check the webpage for your country for further information.
There are country-specific funding opportunities, please see our country pages for more information.
If you're from the United States, you may be eligible for a federal direct loan from the US Department of Education .
There are a range of scholarships and funding opportunities available to give you a helping hand if you choose to study abroad.
Find out what's available to you .
Information about charities and trusts that offer awards and sponsorship to students and their application procedures can be found in the Educational Grants Directory and The Grants Register.
Copies of these are available in our Albert Sloman Library , as well as in most public libraries.
You can also try a grants search at Turn2us .
Use the keyword "higher education" and then narrow your search by filling in other information about yourself.
Many charities and trusts are only able to award a small number of grants each year, so competition can be fierce.
To be in with the best chance of receiving an award it is a good idea to:
Funding for Acting and Drama courses can be limited and competition for grants is fierce, but it’s worth looking at the sources of funding above as well as these, which are aimed specifically at students in your field:
For ideas of how to secure additional funding take a look at Damian Gaskin’s booklet ‘ How to Raise £40,000 and train at Drama School ’ (.pdf).
(The author has asked you to bear in mind that this was written in 1996, well before all the fundraising advances that the internet and social media have given you and so needs to be read in that context.
Please do not contact the author himself for sponsorship!) You can also take a look at Degrees For Free which has some useful and interesting ideas for fundraising and money-saving.
(There is a book of the same name, but don’t feel compelled to buy it, the website is useful in its own right!)
We provide information for parents, carers and care leavers, including additional sources of funding that you may be eligible for.
We and the Students' Union offer financial support if you are experiencing difficulty with your finances in the form of a bursaries, grants or loans depending on your situation.
Have a look on our Financial Support page for more information.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/masters/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-funding:
There are a variety of different scholarships and bursaries available for Postgraduate students to support your studies.
The University is offering a tuition fee discount to students who successfully completed a University of Essex validated Bachelors degree, Masters degree, Postgraduate Diploma or Graduate Diploma, either at Essex or one of our partner institutions.
2025-2026
Masters students on the following programmes: MSc Data Science and its Applications, MSc Applied Data Science, MSc Artificial Intelligence and its Applications.
The UK government offers eligible students Postgraduate Loans to help pay towards tuition fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate master’s course.
Loan amounts specified in this section are based on rates for 2024-25, loans rates are yet to be confirmed for 2026-27.
Applications will open around May for the academic year 2025-26.
For full-time study:
Further information can be found in the University’s Tuition Fees and Liability Policy and on our fee status page.
UK government student finance information
You could get a mixture of a loan and a grant to help with your course costs.
How much you get depends on your household income.
The maximum amount of funding available is:
If you’re studying for 2, 3 or 4 academic years, the loan will be divided equally across each year of your course.
To check eligibility and for further details please visit the Student Finance Wales website .
If you're from Northern Ireland you can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan of up to £5,500 for the duration of your course.
To check eligibility and for further details please visit the Student Finance Northern Ireland (SFNI) website .
If you're from Scotland you can apply for a Postgraduate Tuition Fee loan of up to £7,000 for the duration of your course.
Full-time students can also apply for a loan towards their living costs of up to £6,900.
To check eligibility and for further details please visit the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) website .
Some EU students who have a settled or pre-settled status may be eligible for UK Government funding.
For more information, please see our changes after Brexit webpage .
If you have permanent residency in Germany and are in the UK studying at Essex for educational purposes only, you may be eligible to receive a German Government grant or loan of up to €5,600 towards tuition fees as well as up to just under €1,000 a month to cover living expenses to study a one-year Master’s programme.
Check out the BAföG-Amt Hannover Region website for more information.
Private lenders such as FINS Student loans can be considered to help you fund your studies at Essex.
We would always advise you to check terms and conditions to ensure that any loans you take from private lenders are suitable to your financial circumstances.
We offer a wide range of discounts, bursaries and scholarships to make funding your studies easier, including our Masters (PGT) EU Scholarship worth up to £5,500.
If you're an Essex graduate  you could be eligible for our alumni loyalty discount too.
Our University currently subscribes to the Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding.
This independent guide to financing postgraduate study can be an invaluable tool to anyone considering study beyond undergraduate level.
The Guide is free to use for our current and prospective students.
You can access the resource using the following PIN: 2529.
You might be able to apply for a graduate loan, either from your own or another high street bank.
Make sure you compare the various packages on offer to find out which is best for you.
A first step is to look online for sites which do this for you and then make an appointment to talk to the local branch of the banks which interest you.
Don't be put off if you already have an existing overdraft.
Many banks will now take on the responsibility of this is you are taking out a graduate loan.
Some companies offer to sponsor students, this is becoming an increasingly common source of funding in certain subject areas, primarily the sciences.
Some firms will also consider finance-related disciplines such as accountancy and business studies.
Financial assistance offered by a company will usually be accompanied by work experience which you might be asked to undertake during your holidays or after graduation.
We and the Students' Union offer financial support if you are experiencing difficulty with your finances in the form of bursaries, grants or loans depending on your situation.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/fees-and-funding/scholarships-and-funding:
We offer a wide range of funding opportunities for research students.
We are currently finalising details of new scholarships for 2024-25 and will be updating this webpage shortly with further scholarship opportunities.
Sustainable Transitions - Governance, Ecological Management and Society -
Leverhulme Doctoral Training Programme 2025-26 (Masters plus PhD) [HA1]
Sustainable Transitions Masters plus PhD | University of Essex
You can also use our Scholarship Finder to help you work out what you may be eligible for.
A Postgraduate Doctoral Loan can help eligible students with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate doctoral course, such as a PhD.
You can get up to:
You can apply for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan in any year of your course.
But if you apply after your first year, you might not get the maximum amount.
Most students starting a full-time or part-time postgraduate Doctoral course can apply for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan to help with your course costs.
How much you get does not depend on your household income.
You might also be able to get extra help on top of this if you have a disability.
You can borrow up to:
To check eligibility and for further details please visit Student Finance Wales .
We want you to have access to all the training and development you need to excel in your research degree, which is why we give all our research students up to £2,500 funding to curate a tailored training plan with Proficio .
Following the UK's decision to withdraw from the European Union, EU students who started their studies after October 2021 are likely to be classed as international students for tuition fee purposes and you will need to pay international fees.
EU students starting their studies after October 2021 will no longer be eligible for UK Government funding unless you have settled or pre-settled status .
We offer a wide range of scholarships, studentships and bursaries to make funding your studies easier, including our Postgraduate Research EU Scholarship worth up to £8000.
If you're an Essex graduate, you could also be eligible for our alumni loyalty discount .
There are country-specific funding opportunities, please see our country pages for more information .
If you're a US student you could be eligible to take out a US direct loan .
Research council funding is primarily available via doctoral training centres .
However, it's worth checking the research council for your subject to see if they are offering any other studentships or funding:
Please do not contact the author himself for sponsorship!)
You can also take a look at Degrees For Free which has some useful and interesting ideas for fundraising and money-saving.
Some companies offer to sponsor students, and this is becoming an increasingly common source of funding in certain subject areas, primarily the sciences.
Find our tuition fee payment policies and information on how you can pay your tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/study-abroad/essex-students:
Studying abroad will offer you tons of experience in a different environment.
Not only will it enrich your academic experience,  it will also give you the chance to get to know another country and culture in a way that's not always possible as a tourist.
Check out our exchange finder to explore the countries you can study in.
Experience an authentic tea ceremony in South Korea
Go Razorbacks!
Cheer on your college football team in the US
Visit the wonder of the Amazon in Brazil
Shibuya crossing in Tokyo, rumoured to be the busiest intersection in the world!
Get outside and explore the Sierra Nevada in Granada, Spain
Explore the street art of Lima, Peru
Delve into Prague's history in Czech Republic
Immerse yourself in the Chinese culture
Did you know?
You don't have to be fluent in another language to study abroad.
Most of our partner institutions offer modules in English.
There is always the option to study the local language, either in extra-curricular language classes or even in for-credit modules.
There are also different ways you can learn a language at Essex.
This will not only expand your options for studying and working or volunteering abroad, it will increase your global and cultural awareness, give you confidence when going abroad and give you a competitive edge when you’re looking for a job.
Please note, that you normally need evidence of advance language level to study in the local language so most of the options below will be for social benefit.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/study-abroad/incoming-students:
We are an international community of original thinkers who believe in challenging convention and changing the world for the better.
Our students are members of a unique, transformational living and learning community which empowers them with the skills to make a difference to the world around them.
Study multiple disciplines across our departments and engage with cutting edge research.
Reach your potential and enhance your chances of success with support and resources provided by the Skills for Success team.
Find out what it's like to study at Essex.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/study-abroad/summer-abroad:
Considering taking part in a work, volunteering or study programme over the summer?
We're here to help you find a global opportunity.
An international experience will enhance your employability when you enter the job market, as well as giving you a fresh perspective of the world.
There is funding available for many of our summer programmes.
You can find out more about funding on our dedicated summer funding opportunities page.
Sign up to our Study Abroad newsletter and we'll keep you updated with the the latest on talks, funding opportunities and the exciting places you can go!

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/for-all/languages-for-all:
Learn Arabic, British Sign Language, Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Russian or Spanish and discover how the award-winning Languages for All programme can supercharge your degree and boost your future prospects.
Languages for All consists of two programmes;
These carefully developed programmes have been designed to complement your studies, helping you acquire an incredibly valuable skill, without compromising your existing degree.
Language Express is taught through in-person evening classes which will not conflict with your studies.
Classes are designed to be accompanied by a course book and are communicative in nature.
This means that there will be group activities and pair work, as well as games, listening exercises, speaking role-plays, reading, writing and grammar exercises.
The lessons are specifically tailored to help you study or live in another country, with the aim that:
We offer modules at beginner and post-beginner level:
To enrol on a course you will need to choose the right level of study.
Our course summaries will help you choose the right level for you:
Why not try online language learning with the Language Portfolio instead?
Visit the Language Portfolio guide to discover more.
You will be assessed through class tests of your reading, writing, listening and speaking skills.
To discover more about the assessment criteria, please read the course summary of your chosen module.
If you successfully complete a module, you can request a certification letter with details of your achievement.
If you take all three assessments, obtain an aggregate mark of 60% or higher, and have 70% or higher class attendance, you can gain 50 units for the Big Essex Award .
Language Portfolio allows you to learn a language at a time and pace that suits you, through flexible web-based learning alongside your degree, from beginners, through intermediate to advanced level.
This programme is available at all campuses; Colchester, Southend and Loughton.
Using well-established academic language learning software from Rosetta Stone, you can study French, German or Spanish at any level from beginner to advanced.
After an initial assessment to establish your level, your language tutor will develop a tailor-made learning programme for you.
Prior to your assessment, your tutor will provide you with guidance on using the Rosetta Stone software and completing the initial online assessment.
Your tutor will monitor your progress and support you throughout the course so there is no need to worry about being left on your own.
You can also contact your tutor at any time via email and Moodle.
For extra support you can arrange to  speak with your tutor in-person in the LfA office or via Zoom.
You'll be expected to do between two and three hours of online exercises per week in order to progress to a sufficient standard.
Your tutor will assign weekly lessons for you to complete - how and when you undertake your study is up to you.
Language portfolio gives you the opportunity to:
The course is tailored to any level, from complete beginners (A1) through to fluency (C1).
The content for all levels combines a mixture of language relating to everyday situations and language used in a study or professional context.
Your proficiency level will be assessed by an initial placement test through the Rosetta Stone software and weekly lessons will be assigned by your tutor based on your level.
You have two assessments - one written and one oral, which you complete in the first and second term.
You also complete a portfolio of online work with Rosetta Stone.
The assessments and portfolio consist of different tasks designed to determine your overall language proficiency in different areas of language learning.
Before making your application you must confirm the following:
Places for the Languages for All programmes are subject to availability.
To avoid disappointment, we advise making a timely application.
All students are entitled to one free Languages for All module alongside their degree course regardless of their year of study.
If you would like to learn more than one language in your first year with LfA or continue learning in subsequent years then a small fee is payable.
The fee for the academic year 2025-26 is £280.
If you would like to find out about studying a modern language as a degree subject,  or as a credit-bearing module option forming part of your degree studies, please contact the Department of Language and Linguistics .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2024/10/10/24-km-to-success-tales-from-my-summer-in-alien-dorf:
Kushal is a final year student studying BBA Business Administration within the Essex Business School at Southend campus.
This summer, Kushal completed a summer internship in Germany and has shared a real insight into the experience!
My summer internship at Viessmann Climate Solutions was based in Allendorf, Germany, which I affectionately dubbed "Alien-dorf" because it’s hands-down the most remote place I've ever lived at.
As an HR Intern, I was thrown into the deep end of a company going through a merger, so there was no shortage of excitement from day one.Speaking of day one, it was an ‘adventure’—and I don’t mean that in a cute way.
I somehow ended up walking 24km on a freeway, narrowly dodging trucks, getting lost in a forest so dense that daylight barely reached the ground, and making friends with deer before finally stumbling upon a cow farm (PS: In my defence, I was just looking for a taxi the whole time).
Hours later, I arrived at the office, exhausted but in one piece, thankful I hadn't become a roadkill (Yes, I filmed a "goodbye, cruel world" video along the way).
But once I made it, my amazing team completely turned my day around.
They went out of their way to pick me up from my hotel, drop me off, take me grocery shopping, and help me find and settle into an apartment.
I couldn't have asked for a better group of people!Their kindness and support made all the difference, especially since the first week was a bit of a whirlwind.
Despite the chaos, it turned into one of the best experiences of my life, and I’m forever grateful for how they welcomed me with open arms and made sure I was looked after every step of the way.
As a self-proclaimed hodophile, the German countryside was basically calling my name!
Viessmann presented me with an unbeatable opportunity: hands-on industry experience in HR while living my dream of immersing myself in a new culture.
Allendorf, just an hour away from Frankfurt and smack in the middle of Europe, was the ideal base for my travel-filled weekends.
I managed to cross off eight different countries from my bucket list during my time there—talk about the ultimate European summer adventure!On top of that, learning German in a professional setting sounded like a fun challenge (though I didn’t quite realise how tough that first week would be!).
From navigating the language to navigating remote German villages, it was an experience that blended work, adventure, and a whole lot of personal growth.
I knew this internship would be a game-changer, and it delivered on every front—plus a little extra!
There were so many unforgettable moments, it’s hard to choose!
But at the top of the list has to be bonding with my incredible team.
Despite my rocky start (cue my 24km “adventure”), they went above and beyond to help me settle in and truly made me feel at home.
Another highlight?
After scouring the internet for MONTHS in hopes of getting tickets, I finally made it to “Coldplay and Adele” concerts—talk about last-minute magic!
The thrill of snagging those tickets made the whole experience even more surreal.Of course, exploring the ‘Austrian Alps’ during a weekend getaway was another jaw-dropping moment.
Picture-perfect landscapes and fresh mountain air—it was like living in a postcard!
Professionally, a week spent working with my team in Berlin was a game-changer.
I left feeling inspired, energised, and with a whole new perspective on HR in the midst of a merger.
It was a summer filled with epic memories, both inside and outside the office!
My advice: Be prepared for anything—good or bad.
Don’t be afraid of a challenging start.
Things may seem overwhelming, but that’s part of the adventure.
Embrace the discomfort because the lessons you learn will be invaluable.
Trust me, even getting lost in a forest on your first day can turn into a hilarious story down the line!Also, take full advantage of your location.
Explore, immerse yourself in the culture, and don’t shy away from new experiences.
Absolutely!
THM was fantastic from start to finish.
They worked seamlessly with both Viessmann and my university to make sure everything ran like clockwork.
Their support was top-notch, and it felt great knowing I had a dedicated team backing me throughout the entire internship.
They even took it a step further by **visiting me** at Viessmann, just to check in and make sure everything was going well.
It really showed how much they care about creating the best possible experience.
With their help, I could focus on making the most of my time there, both professionally and personally.
This experience taught me resilience and adaptability like never before.
From navigating language barriers and remote locations to mastering the perfect balance of work, life, and adventure, I’ve grown both professionally and personally.
The challenge of thriving in a new environment pushed me to discover my true potential.
Whether I was tackling HR tasks or exploring new countries on the weekends, I learned to make the most of every moment.Sophie, my colleague, said something that stuck with me: "You cry twice when you come to Allendorf—once when you arrive and once when it’s time to leave." And she was absolutely right.
This internship wasn’t just a job—it was a life-changing journey filled with growth, adventure, and unforgettable memories.
Inspired by Kushal's experience?
Head over to the Essex Abroad webpages to see where Essex can take you!
University of Essex

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2024/10/02/turing-scheme-2024-2025-news-announcement:
We are delighted to announce that the University of Essex has been awarded the distinguished Turing Scheme funding, opening a world of opportunities for our students to study and work abroad.
This landmark achievement underscores our commitment to providing a global education experience, equipping students with the skills and perspectives necessary to thrive in an interconnected world.
Named after the pioneering computer scientist Alan Turing, the Turing Scheme is the UK government's global program aimed at supporting students to gain international experience.
This funding will enable Essex students to engage in transformative educational and professional experiences across the globe.
With the university's emphasis on diversity and inclusion, the Turing Scheme will play a pivotal role in ensuring that students from all backgrounds have access to these invaluable opportunities.
Essex students will be able to apply for funding for study or work opportunities for the 2024-2025 academic year.
The programmes, which can last from four weeks to one year, could include study abroad programmes, international work placements and summer abroad programmes such as volunteering, summer schools and internships.
As part of the exciting global scheme, Canada, Indonesia, Spain and Japan are among more than 150 international destinations where UK students will be funded to take up opportunities – with a high percentage of places going to those from disadvantaged backgrounds.
This year we’ve again secured extra funding for students with additional needs to give them support as needed to access these life changing opportunities.
At Essex we offer our students a growing portfolio of short-term international programmes for summer 2025 and the Turing Scheme funding can be used to support student cost of living expenses whilst they are abroad.
Essex Pro-Vice Chancellor for Education, Professor Larra Anderson, said: “We are thrilled to have secured Turing Scheme funding for the fourth year running.
This prestigious funding underscores our commitment to providing a transformative global learning experience for our students.
Over the past three years, the University of Essex has supported nearly 350 students via Turing Scheme funding to study, work, volunteer and intern abroad.
This has enabled our students to gain invaluable cultural and professional insights from around the world and develop both personally and academically.
At Essex, we believe in the power of education to change lives, and this funding will help us to support more students, particularly those from underrepresented backgrounds, to participate in an international experience.
These opportunities not only enhance academic and career prospects but also foster a broader understanding of the global community.
We are excited to see the positive impact this funding will have on our students and the wider university community”.
Essex Abroad Manager, Kristi Connell added “For the last three years we have successfully supported Essex students by awarding them Turing Scheme funding to support their international experience.
This has enhanced their experience abroad and opened many more opportunities to them whilst they are abroad.
We are thrilled to be in position to continue to do so for a fourth year running through the Turing Scheme funding.
International experiences are crucial and provides students with the opportunity to immerse themselves into different cultures, situations, and academic environments, building on important transferable key life skills to help them stand out from the crowd in future employability.
The Turing Scheme funding provides us with the opportunity to support a wide range of international programmes and different study opportunities, including our European Alliance Young Universities for the Future of Europe (YUFE), and encourage more students to take part in a short-term international programme.”
Essex Abroad has already contacted eligible students who are studying abroad in 2024-2025 regarding Turing funding.
Other students who are interested in accessing this funding should visit the summer funding webpages at the start of the 2024-2025 academic year.
During 2023-2024 we were able to fund around 140 students via Turing Scheme funding to support their international experience.
Below is some feedback from some of these students...
Lexi, who studies History within the School of Philosophical, Historical and Interdisciplinary Studies is currently taking part in a six-week summer school at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Lexi explains “I am the first person in my family to go to university and I come from a single parent household in a low-income area where there wasn't many chances to get to explore new cultures and learn new languages in such an immersive environment.
I am doing an international summer school at CUHK with nearly 700 other students from around the world and throughout the month and a half here the school had put on a range of cultural events from traditional dinners to going to see the big Buddha a major tourist attraction.
"Getting to participate in such an incredible opportunity was greatly supported by the Turing scheme.
I work while at university so I had been saving up for cost of the program for a while, but the funding allowed me to have money to take part in a wider range of activities and to be able to eat out and try local foods.
I have also been greatly supported by the Essex Abroad team from them sending me regular updates, to keeping my application on track, to being available when needed while I am in Hong Kong.
Overall, I would say the Turing scheme gave me the extra support I needed to have a fully immersive experience.”
Lucrezia studies MFA Acting (International) within the East15 Department at our Loughton campus.
Lucrezia says “Over the course of six weeks, I have undergone Shakespeare-focused training in voice, text, and physical theatre including clown, Commedia dell Arte, and Bouffon.
I am also acting in two shows: Measure for Measure, in which I am playing the provost, and All’s Well that Ends Well, in which I am playing Helena, at two different local theatres.
My Turing Scheme funding has contributed to my tuition expenses as well as incidentals incurred during my time in Prague.
The program is helping me to reinforce the skills I gained during my first year at East 15 as well as exposing me to new and wonderful practices taught by seasoned professionals from all over the world.”
Daniel, who recently graduated from the Department of Government, studied abroad in Finland in Autumn 2023 but also completed four other study abroad programmes during his time at Essex and received Turing Scheme funding for most of these!
In 2022-2023, Daniel completed his study abroad year in Hong Kong at the University of Hong Kong.
He then travelled to ITESO in Mexico to take part in a summer school programme focussing on gender-based violence across borders before completing a research programme at the Chinese University of Hong Kong!
In his final year Daniel completed a term abroad in Finland as part of our YUFE programme before squeezing in a final summer school during summer 2024 at the University of Nottingham Ningbo, China.
You can read more about Daniel’s travels in his blog from January 2024.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2024/09/20/volunteering-in-cameroon:
Claris is a PG student who has just completed her MSc in Speech and Language Therapy in the School of Health and Social Care here at  the University of Essex.
This summer, Claris secured an independent volunteering placement with CBC Health Services in Cameroon and was awarded Turing Scheme funding via Essex Abroad to support the trip.
The summer abroad opportunity provided me with a unique learning experience.
I had the privilege to work as a speech and language therapist (SLT) at the Mbingo Baptist Hospital in Kom for three weeks and at Mbingo Annexe in Bamenda for a week.
Working alongside Dr Acha and his team at the ENT Department and a visiting doctor from Canada, Dr Archibald, I gained valuable experience.
My responsibilities included working with a diverse group of patients, ranging from children to adults, who presented with a wide range of conditions.
This experience allowed me to grow and learn, presenting numerous challenges that further developed my Speech and Language Therapist skills.Overall, my experience at Mbingo and Mbingo Annex gave me a well-rounded understanding of the diverse needs of children with speech, language, communication, and swallowing disorders, equipping me with invaluable skills and insights for my future practice as a speech and language therapist.
Living and working in Cameroon (Mbingo) deepened my understanding of the local culture and customs.
Engaging with the local community was truly enriching, and conversing with patients in their native tongue was deeply gratifying, as it facilitated their comprehension of the services offered and the guidance given.
It also enabled the individuals and their families to understand better their health conditions and how they impacted their speech, language, communication, voice, and swallowing abilities.
I received invaluable mentorship and guidance from the dedicated staff at CBC Health Services, particularly on the teams within the Ear, Nose, and Throat (ENT) and Internal Medicine departments.
This experience gave me a profound understanding of the challenges encountered in community-based rehabilitation and gave me valuable insights into practical strategies for overcoming these hurdles.I am genuinely thankful for the chance that Essex University provided me to work as a speech and language therapist, positively impacting the lives of those who benefited from my services.
I wholeheartedly endorse this program for anyone interested in volunteering abroad, particularly in speech and language therapy.
Inspired by Claris' experience?
Fly over to the Essex Abroad webpages to see where Essex can take you!

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/authors/essex-abroad:
10 October 2024
02 October 2024
20 September 2024
09 August 2024
29 July 2024
08 July 2024
26 June 2024
07 June 2024
01 March 2024

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/apprenticeships/health-and-social-care-apprenticeships:
We make sure our courses are professionally relevant by working closely with a range of health, social care and third sector agencies, in particular, Health Education East of England.
We also have several fellows and honorary lecturers who are based in practice environments.
Please watch our Health and Social Care Apprenticeships Webinar for further information:
Are you a healthcare assistant looking to upskill?
Join our higher apprenticeship programme to develop your knowledge and skills to become an assistant practitioner.
You will enrol on a FdSc Assistant Practitioner degree as part of the  Assistant Practitioner Apprenticeship Standard.
As assistant practitioners work across the NHS in a variety of roles, from operating theatres to mental health services, this course does not specifically focus on one area only of clinical practice.
Instead, we will look at the broad principles of healthcare than underpin all work in the NHS, and will draw on variety of examples to support your understanding.
The modules have been designed to stretch and challenge you to develop both your academic and clinical skills.
Successful completion of this apprenticeship can be used as a foundation from which to progress your career in a variety of ways.
For those interested in progressing to a career in nursing, you may be interested in moving on to our Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship.
For those, who interested in other allied health professions, you may go on to degree apprenticeships in Occupational Therapy, Speech and Language Therapy or other areas too.
Further information can be found in the HASO Health Information pack
Employer nominations can be made via apprenticeships@essex.ac.uk for October 2025 starts.
Nomination deadline: 4 July 2025.
The apprenticeship will take 24 months, including the end point assessment, doing a mixture of on-campus and work-based learning.
Apprentices will attend university one day per week.
Subject to interest, the course can be delivered at both our Colchester and Southend Campuses.
We'll train you in:
Study and Lifelong Learning – 15 Credits
This module explores the concept of communication and workplace learning.
The application of listening and effective communication skills is directed toward building trust and addressing the real concerns of patients.
The module addresses reading, essay writing, key literacy skills, digital literacy, literature searching and written communication skills.
Biopsychosocial Science – 30 Credits
This module is designed to introduce and develop applied knowledge of the sciences that inform professional practice, including anatomy, physiology, psychology and sociology.
This module will cover the following - Introduction to module and assessment, applied human anatomy, physiological systems, branches of psychology, applied sociology and Introduction to the different illnesses and diseases.
Person Centred Care – 30 Credits
This module will enable learners to investigate and explore the structures, processes and outcomes associated with the provision of person-centred care.
Emphasis on values; engaging patients and carers; principles of social justice, advocacy, health beliefs, including consideration of culture and religion; shared decision making; establishing therapeutic partnerships and concordance; healthcare systems and complexity; patient safety; human factors and their importance; understanding and learning from errors; managing risk and law and ethics.
Introduction to Interprofessional Working – 15 Credits
The module will provide the opportunity to explore and develop an individual’s understanding of professional and interprofessional working in health and social care environments.
This module will cover the following: concepts and values of professional practice, interprofessional working and communication, evidence-based practice, practice-based evidence, effective interprofessional team working and challenges associated with interprofessional team working
Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours Portfolio 1 – Profession Specific – 30 Credits
This module will provide evidence that learners have successful completed all skills identified in the portfolio with supportive evidence.
To show the importance of reflection in the workplace and to demonstrate continuous personal and professional development.
Developing Critical Appraisal Skills – 15 Credits
This module takes an evidence-based approach to develop skills in literature searching, reviewing and critiquing health and social care research.
Public Health and Wellbeing – 15 Credits
Promoting the health and wellbeing of the individual requires an understanding of the wider issues, including environment and work safety issues, heredity, lifestyle, education, social economic factors and media influence.
Management and Leadership in Health and Social Care – 15 Credits
This module introduces the student to both the theory and practical background to leadership and management.
This module will cover the following: leadership – motivation, personal power, using team skills, demonstrating trust, mentoring, management – delegation, prioritisation, team roles and responsibilities, resource management, change management, clinical governance – definition, impact, operation of clinical governance, examples from practice and health care policy and local impact – NSFs, NICE guidelines, current health policies and their implementation locally.
To provide evidence that learners have successful completed all skills identified in the portfolio with supportive evidence.
To show the importance of reflection in the workplace and to demonstrate continuous personal and professional development.
Core Role Specific: Each student must pick one from the following:
Caring for the individual receiving acute intervention is a core function of the healthcare worker.
This module builds upon the learning gained in the Biopsychosocial Science module, Person Centred Care and Management and leadership in Health and Social Care.
It prepares learners for their role in care of the individual who is acutely unwell and before, during and after an acute intervention and associated rehabilitation.
Apprentices will need to achieve 2300 hours of clinical work time to APEL into the top-up
This module will introduce learners to the core knowledge and skills of occupational therapy, enabling them to develop an understanding of the occupational nature of human beings.
Apprentices will explore how people engage in their occupations and what influences their performance of occupations.
Students will draw on their experiences in order to develop an understanding of the occupational nature of human beings and the theoretical framework that underpins occupational therapy.
Apprentices will explore the key components of human communication (speech including phonology and articulation, language development and linguistics, pragmatics, total communication) and how they typically develop.
They will be introduced to the concept of clinical phonetics and linguistics which will be covered in greater detail in Years 3 and 4.
Students will draw on their experience in order to develop an understanding of the breadth of human communication and the theoretical framework that underpins speech and language therapy.
Apprentices need to attend 8 taught sessions over the summer period and undertake a 2 week full-time placement in the last year to APEL into the top-up
An apprentice cannot achieve their apprenticeship unless they take and pass the End Point Assessment (EPA) and will not be able to continue with their educational journey onto a registered Degree Apprenticeship professional registered programmes.
The EPA module is designed to test individual apprentices understanding of the learning learnt on the Assistant Practitioner apprenticeship.
Apprentices are required to demonstrate that they have the Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours required of all Assistant Practitioners who undertake clinical interventions in a variety of practice settings.
The EPA plan is stipulated by the Institute for Apprenticeships an Technical Education's (IfATE) national occupational standard for the Assistant Practitioner.
Professional Discussion with Independent Assessor underpinned by Portfolio of Evidence
Observation of Practice
As part of the assessment plan you will complete a variety of assessment methods, including:
To be eligible to be an Apprentice you must be in current employment within a clinical practice setting (normally for a minimum of 30 hours a week) within a relevant occupational role with agreement from the employer to be supported.
Our usual entry requirements for this course are:
There are no tuition fees to pay as your employer pays these for you.
That means you will earn while you learn.
The NMC have changed their professional standards for nursing and as a result of this we refreshed our curriculum in October 2020 entry to meet these standards.
As an apprentice you will be able to choose between BSc Nursing (Adult) and BSc Nursing (Mental Health).
For further information please see the Registered Nurse Apprenticeship Standard
Nomination deadline: CLOSED FOR OCTOBER 2025 INTAKE.
Nominations will open for October 2026 intake in January 2026.
University based teaching will take place in blocks throughout the academic year.
The rest of the time, apprentices will be in their usual place of work or occasionally in 'away' placements (i.e.
other settings which will be chosen to develop particular skills and knowledge).
15 hours a week will be spent as an apprentice, and the remaining time will be in their given role.
The pathways are designed to continuously interweave theory and practice; this is reflected in the learning and practice outcomes and assessment strategy for each module.
There are four terms per year, each of 13 weeks and within each term:
Person Centred Care 2 - 60 Credits
This module prepares learners to participate in practice-based learning, reasoning and decision-making to deliver person-centred care.
Learners will develop confidence and competence in the range of enhanced nursing proficiencies and nursing procedures.
Learners will develop and demonstrate emergent leadership, collaborating with service users and other professions to make decisions about how person-centred care is provided to an individual or small group of people.
The Therapeutic Practitioner - 20 Credits
This module allows learners to review and appraise the resources, interventions and therapies at the disposal of registered nurses and to select appropriately from these to provide safe and effective care in the complex situations that nursing can operate within.
The delivery of any intervention or therapy requires careful consideration in terms of both the evidence base for that intervention and safeguarding people’s autonomy in the decision-making process.
The module will draw upon experiences of working with people with a range of physical and mental health co-morbidities.
Relationship-Based Practitioner - 20 Credits
Relationship-based practice is central to the provision of safe and compassionate person-centred care.
This module comprehensively prepares learners in relationship-based practices that provide the foundations for person-centred nursing care.
Learners will develop proficiency in approaches to skilled communication and relationship management (Annexe A Section 2), NMC standards and approaches for providing evidence-based therapeutic interventions (Annexe A, Section 3) Learners will consider how these approaches apply in different situations and fields of practice.
Advocacy, Activism and Resistance - 20 Credits
Advocacy is a central tenet of the philosophies and practices of nursing.
Drawing on the principles of social justice, this module encourages learners to critically consider what it means to be an advocate for people who are seeking to access and use health services, and to explore strategies to constructively and actively resist those practices and policies that have detrimental consequences for groups of people.
Person-Centred Care 3 (Adult Nursing) - 60 Credits
This module prepares leaners to lead, manage and coordinate care during practice-based learning experiences.
Learners will develop independence in the range of enhanced adult nursing proficiencies and procedures.
Student will demonstrate critical, reflective and person-centred leadership when working with others, and demonstrate proficiency in managing the complexities and ambiguities of challenging and conflicting episodes in adult nursing care.
Person Centred Care 3 (Mental Health Nursing) - 60 Credits
This module prepares learners to lead, manage and coordinate care during practice-based learning experiences.
Learners will develop independence in the range of enhanced mental health nursing proficiencies and procedures.
Learners will demonstrate critical, reflective and person-centred leadership when working with others, and demonstrate proficiency in managing the complexities and ambiguities of challenging and conflicting episodes of mental health care.
Participatory Research for Service Improvement - 20 Credits
Monitoring and evaluating the quality of care practices and services, and making subsequent service changes are fundamental for improving the safety and quality of care.
Improvements in care and treatment that enhance the outcomes that people experience can be transformative when the people whose experiences matter most are involved in the design of the service.
This module offers learners the opportunity to work closely with people with lived experience, citizens and service users to consult on, develop, co-design and lead participatory quality improvement initiatives.
In partnership with people, learners will select questions and issues that are important to people, and co-design a proposal to address these issues in partnership with people with lived experience, quality and education leads in partner organisations and the support of an academic supervisor.
The Autonomous Practitioner (Adult Nursing) - 20 Credits
This module consolidates learning around compassionate, clinical leadership in adult nursing.
Learners will consider the accountabilities and human consequences associated with their own and others’ leadership decisions at the point of care.
They will be supported to explore the complexities and uncertainties of clinical situations.
Learners will critically examine how the ‘quality’ of care is defined, measured and audited, and the impact of these measurements on the lived experiences of people.
They will reflect upon their own professional development needs and proactively plan their own development.
The Autonomous Practitioner (Mental Health Nursing) - 20 Credits
This module consolidates learning around compassionate, clinical leadership in mental health nursing.
Supervising Learning in Clinical Practice - 20 Credits
Preparation in the principles of supervision and feedback ensures that students are ready to act as practice supervisors and are ready to learn to become practice assessors at the point of registration.
Learners will consider approaches to clinical and practice supervision and how these contribute to the development of peers and learners.
Learners will have the opportunity to supervise and coach less experienced students in both practice and university-based/simulated setting (e.g.
in Person-Centred Care 1 and selected other modules.) Learners will enhance and develop awareness of cultural competence, processes of constructive feedback, reflective appraisal and formative and summative assessment.
They will be encouraged to develop approaches to coaching and supervision whilst considering how to challenge circumstances that impact upon the quality of a learning environment.
To ensure balanced learning, a wide variety of assessment methods within a coherent framework is employed.
For further information please see the assessment plan .
The University is currently delivering a two year Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship.
To find out more about navigating this apprenticeship, see the Skills for Health information pack.
For our Full Time Option (non-apprenticeship route) please see: Nursing | Subject area | University of Essex
Join us as an apprentice Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner (PWP) at our Colchester campus.
Successful completion of this apprenticeship leads to Graduate Certificate in Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner.
Please note: The PWP apprenticeship is only open to those working in one of the NHS Talking Therapies Services.
The apprenticeship will take one year to complete, excluding the end point assessment.
It will be comprised of a mix of on-campus and work-based learning.
We’ll train you in:
The course will be delivered in lectures, small group tutorials and seminars.
You will benefit from clinical simulations in our skills labs where we are able to rehearse telephone based support.
You will be expected to complete guided reading and independent study alongside your role and on-campus study.
Apprentices will complete three credit bearing modules before progressing to their End Point Assessment:
This module is one part of a three module Certificate in Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner (Low Intensity) Interventions.
The role of the Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner (PWP) has been developed since 2007 alongside the Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) programme .
PWPs work at high volume (high caseloads) with people experiencing depression and/or anxiety at Step 2 in Primary Care mental health settings offering evidence based low intensity, guided self-help interventions.
This module will introduce you to the concepts of service user engagement through establishing a sound therapeutic alliance.
This is achieved through the use of comprehensive main problem and risk assessment of service users with common mental health problems e.g., anxiety and depression.
You will also be exposed to the current evidence-based treatments for such problems and the appropriate use or not of such interventions.
This module introduces you to the core interventions used by PWPs to support people experiencing mild to moderate depression or anxiety in reaching recovery.
The module allows you to learn the theory underpinning the interventions and to develop the clinical skills in collaboratively supporting the service user access and implement a treatment appropriate for their difficulty.
The module encourages you to consider the challenges of delivering treatment in the real world, offering opportunity to problem solve and practice challenges that may arise in practice.
PWPs work at high volume (high caseloads) with people suffering from depression and/or anxiety at Step 2 in Primary Care mental health settings offering low intensity, guided self-help interventions.
Apprenticeship Practice Development
This will consist of tutorials to support you in reaching the academic and clinical requirements to complete the PWP programme and the apprenticeship End Point Assessment.
You will be assessed through a variety of methods, including:
To find out more about navigating this apprenticeship, see the Skills for Health information pack .
Ready to progress your career?
Join us as an occupational therapy apprentice at our Colchester campus.
Successful completion of this apprenticeship leads to eligibility to register with Health and Care Professions Council as a qualified Occupational Therapist and become a professional member of the Royal College of Occupational Therapists .
This means you will earn while you learn.
For further information see the: Skills for Health Information Pack - Occupational Therapy Degree Apprenticeship
Nominations for October 2025 are now CLOSED .
Employer nominations for October 2026 can be made via apprenticeships@essex.ac.uk from January 2026.
University based teaching will take place two-days a week across 47 weeks of the calendar year.
The rest of the time apprentices will be in their usual place of work or when undertaking block ‘away’ placements (i.e.
in other practice settings away from their current work placement and outside of their employing organisation).
8 hours a day will be spent as an apprentice during campus-based weeks and the remaining time will be in their given role.
Block placements will be full-time (37.5 hours a week) for the duration of each placement.
This includes half a day study per week to support the placement learning.
The World Federation of Occupational Therapists require learners to undertake a total of 1000 hours of practice to register with the HCPC.
The programme is designed to continuously interweave theory and practice, this is reflected in the learning and practice outcomes and assessment strategy for each module.
There are three terms per year, the first two terms are 12 weeks in length with an extended Term 3.
To ensure balanced learning and relevance for practice, a variety of assessment methods are employed, and you will be assessed through a variety of methods including:
For our Full Time Option (non-apprenticeship route) please see: Occupational therapy | Subject area | University of Essex
Are you a band 2/3 healthcare assistant looking to upskill?
Join our higher apprenticeship programme to develop your knowledge and skills to become a Nursing Associate.
You will enrol on a FdSc Nursing Associate degree as part of the Nursing Associate apprenticeship standards.
As nursing associates work across both health and social care, from acute care to mental health services, this course does not specifically focus on one area only of clinical practice.
Instead, we will look at the broad principles of healthcare than underpin all work in the NHS and will draw on variety of examples to support your understanding.
Successful completion of this apprenticeship can be used as a foundation from which to progress your career in nursing.
Employer nominations for October 2025 can be made via apprenticeships@essex.ac.uk .
Nomination deadline: 11 July 2025.
Apprentices will attend university one day per week plus specific in workplace hours linked to the apprenticeship - a separate breakdown of structured hours based on contracted hours will be shared.
This module will cover the following - Introduction to module and assessment, applied human anatomy, physiological systems, branches of psychology, applied sociology and Introduction to the different illnesses and diseases
This module will cover the following: concepts and values of professional practice, interprofessional working and communication, evidence-based practice, practice-based evidence, effective interprofessional team working and challenges associated with interprofessional team working.
Join us as Speech and Language Therapy apprentice at our Colchester Campus.
Successful completion of this apprenticeship leads to eligibility to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council as a qualified Speech and Language Therapist.
Graduates will also be eligible to become a Newly Qualified member of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.
Apprenticeships offer an exciting route to qualification and are very much a partnership between employer, University, and apprentice.
Employers can nominate for October 2025 by contacting apprenticeships@essex.ac.uk .from Nomination deadline: CLOSED FOR 2025 INTAKE.
University-based teaching will take place two days per week across an extended academic year.
The rest of the time apprentices will be in their usual place of work.
The exception to this is when apprentices undertake block ‘away’ placements.
Block placements will be allocated away from an apprentice’s current workplace.
Teaching days will be scheduled as 8 hours per day.
This includes up to a day of independent study per week to support the placement learning.
The Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists require learners to undertake a total of 150 sessions (a session being equivalent to 3.75 hours) during pre-registration training.
The RCSLT have developed pre-registration EDS competencies (2021) in partnership with clinicians and higher education institutions to ensure that all pre-registration SLT apprentices have the same level of competency across the UK.
These competencies will become mandatory for all pre-registration SLT apprentices who graduate from 2026 onwards.
The RCSLT pre-registration EDS competencies are embedded into our teaching and placement curriculum.
Across your academic programme you will have an opportunity to achieve EDS knowledge and practical competencies.
This will be supported through a combination of theory-based lectures, practical workshops, e-learning and clinical placements.
EDS observations, supervised EDS assessment and management discussions can occur in a variety of placement locations including hospitals, community services (including visiting people in their own home), care homes, pre-school, schools, special education needs provision, mental health settings, secure settings and adult learning disability settings.
Once you have these pre-registration EDS competencies, you will have an enhanced skills set
Common activities an apprentice and EDS trained Speech and Language Therapist would complete, may include but is not limited to:
You will also find that, should you choose to work abroad once qualified, you will be able to evidence EDS training.
This will make it easier to work as a qualified Speech and Language Therapist in countries where the RCSLT have a Mutual Recognition Agreement.
HS231 - Identification of Developmental Communication Abilities and Difficulties (30 credits)
This module will introduce you to observation and assessment techniques alongside the professional reasoning skills required to make decisions regarding which techniques to use and how to interpret findings.
The module will incorporate learning around service users who are likely to present with developmental difficulties of speech, language and communication across the lifespan.
HS232 - Identification of Acquired Communication Abilities and Difficulties (30 credits)
The module will incorporate learning around service users who are likely to present with acquired difficulties of speech language and communication.
HS233 - Dysphagia (15 credits)
This module will revise and build upon anatomy, physiology and neurology from year 1 of the degree and introduce learners to observation, investigation and intervention techniques alongside the professional reasoning skills required to underpin practical management of dysphagia.
Aspects of the work will be practical, for example role playing of oro-motor and assessment techniques.
HS234 - Practice Placement
The programme is designed to continuously interweave theory and practice.
This is reflected in the learning outcomes and assessment strategy for each module.
To ensure balanced learning and relevance for practice, a variety of assessment methods are employed.
Apprentices will be assessed through a variety of methods including:
The University of Essex also offers a full-time BSc Speech and Language Therapy course (non-apprenticeship route).
For full details, please see the course page .
We work with a wide range of employers in a variety of clinical settings.
NHS Trusts
Schools
We also work in a variety of Clinical settings including:
Our School of Health and Social Care is at the forefront of preparing people to solve real-life issues in health and society.
Both campuses provide outstanding facilities.
We offer excellent physical and online resources including libraries, computer labs, datasets, archives and other research materials, and have simulation labs where apprentices can practise their clinical skills safely.
Head over to our blog to hear our apprentices sharing their own unique experiences.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/apprenticeships/sport-rehabilitation-and-exercise-sciences-apprenticeships:
Our mission is to empower physiotherapy students to transform lives.
We do this by facilitating experiences which allow learners to thrive by recognising, developing and leading through an enhanced understanding of themselves and others.
Please watch our Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences Webinar for further information:
Physiotherapy Degree Apprenticeship Webinar – recorded December 2022
Our Physiotherapy Degree Apprenticeship supports apprentices to make the most of their unique opportunities and develop enquiring minds through the combination of practice and research lead learning.
Our apprenticeship programme is suitable for existing staff such as therapy assistants and support workers and people new to the health and social care sector.
It usually takes 39 months to complete the programme (41 including the EPA period) which has been designed to be progressively demanding, professionally and academically, so that by the end apprentices can demonstrate mastery of the knowledge and skills specified in the level 6 national apprenticeship standard and those required to apply for Health and Care Professions Council registration and full membership of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy.
Nominations will open again in January 2026.
Apprentices will spend approximately 60% of their time in their work-place completing tasks set out in their job descriptions by their employer, and 40% either attending university teaching, developing practice skills, completing personal study tasks or attending placements.
Spread across years 2,3 and 4 apprentices complete four practice placements in health and social care services outside of their employing team.
These learning opportunities are identified collaboratively to meet the specific development needs of the apprentice.
They are essential experiences that enable apprentices to apply their evolving expertise, develop their scope of practice and appreciate the diverse carer options Physiotherapy has to offer.
The modules have been designed around 4 themes: development of self and others, professional craft skills, propositional skills and preparation for qualified practice.
To be eligible to be an Apprentice you must be in current employment within a relevant occupational role in a suitable setting (normally for a minimum of 30 hours a week), with agreement from the employer to be supported.
For our Full Time Option (non-apprenticeship route) please see: Physiotherapy | Subject area | University of Essex

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/business/education/degree-and-higher-apprenticeships:
Apprenticeships combine on-the-job training and academic study.
Designed by employers for employers by Trailblazer Groups , our apprenticeships are industry-focused and driven.
Apprenticeships offer employers a highly affordable way to invest in new talent, reskill or upskill existing workforce (CPD).
Apprenticeships represent an ideal combination of on-the-job training and academic study, providing higher-level qualifications, including degrees, boosting your business with a skilled and qualified workforce.
Whether you're an employer who needs to develop skilled and qualified employees or a prospective apprentice who wants a head-start in the workplace, we'll guide you through your options.
We currently offer apprenticeships in the following areas:
Discover the benefits of apprenticeships:
Anyone you nominate must satisfy the requirements of the Department for Education (DfE) Funding Rules.
This means that anyone you wish to nominate must:
We ensure our courses are professionally relevant by working closely with a range of health, social care and third party sector agencies, in particular Health Education East of England.
Our courses degrees meet the requirements of the Specification for Apprenticeship Standards England and the Core Competence and Knowledge Framework for the Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship Framework.
Healthcare Assistant Practitioner Webinar - recorded March 2022
Nursing Associate Webinar - recorded December 2023
Occupational Therapy Webinar - recorded March 2022 - we now have full Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC) approval for course delivery
Speech and Language Therapy Webinar - recorded March 2024 - we now have full Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC) approval for course delivery
Registered Nurse Webinar - recorded March 2022
Your apprentice will enrol on a FdSc Health Science degree as part of the Assistant Practitioner Apprenticeship Standard which has been designed to stretch and challenge your employees to develop both their academic and clinical skills.
The length of the whole apprenticeship is 24 months.
There is the opportunity upon successful completion to progress onto our BSc Healthcare Practice or Registered Nursing Degree Apprenticeship (BSc Nursing).
See our apprenticeship pages for more information on the course modules, course structure, entry requirements and School facilities.
£14,000 (80% divided monthly during the practical training period and 20% paid on completion of the End Point Assessment)
To find out more and to register your interest please contact: apprenticeships@essex.ac.uk
Employer nomination deadline: 4 July 2025
Your Apprentice will be able to enrol on either the BSc Nursing (Adult) or BSc Nursing (Mental Health) pathway as part of the Registered Nurse Apprenticeship Standard.
£13,500 in total (80% divided monthly during the practical training period and 20% paid on completion of the End Point Assessment).
Your apprentice will enrol on a Graduate Certificate in Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner as part of the Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship Standard.
The course will be delivered in lectures, small group tutorials and seminars and your apprentice will benefit from clinical simulations in our skills labs where we are able to rehearse telephone based support.
Apprentices will be expected to complete guided reading and independent study alongside their role and on-campus study.
The length of the course is 12 months and is delivered from our Colchester Campus.
£7,000 (80% divided monthly during the practical training period and 20% paid on completion of the End Point Assessment).
Your apprentice will enrol on this 24 month course at our Colchester campus.
This apprenticeship is suitable for people with relevant health and/or care backgrounds, with the ambition of becoming a qualified Occupational Therapist.
Note: Evidence of accredited prior learning and occupational therapy practice experience with current employment in an appropriate health and/or care setting with support from a work-based occupational therapist is required.
Time away from their normal role to study will need to be given as part of the apprenticeship requirements in order to ensure apprentices can achieve the required apprenticeship standards.
This is a requirement not only to satisfy the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) funding rules but also to satisfy the criteria of the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT).
The apprentices will require support from a registered Occupational Therapist as a work-based mentor within their workplace to support the development of Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours of the apprenticeship.
This course has been approved for delivery by the HCPC/RCOT in line with the occupational standards, as outlined by the Institute for Apprenticeship and Technical Education (IfATE).
Failure to provide sufficient support / release of apprentice/s to achieve standard will jeopardise the ability for them to complete the apprenticeship and subsequent registration with the HCPC/RCOT.
For further information about the Occupational Therapist (Integrated Degree) Apprenticeship standards, see the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education website .
The course will be delivered in lectures, workshops, small group work/tutorials and seminars and your apprentice will benefit from simulation/skills based learning in our mock wards and community living clinical learning spaces.
Full-time block practice placements ‘away’ from the apprentice’s usual place of work are also integrated within the programme and are a professional requirement for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council.
See our apprenticeship pages for more information on the course modules, course structure, entry requirements and school facilities.
£15,000 in total (80% divided monthly during the practical training and 20% paid on completion of the integrated End Point Assessment).
Your apprentice will enrol on a Foundation degree Nursing Associate programme as part of the Nursing Associate Apprenticeship Standard which has been designed to stretch and challenge your employees to develop both their academic and clinical skills.
Upon successful completion, the apprentice will be registered with the NMC (Nursing and Midwifery council).
The apprentices will require support from a Practice Assessor within their workplace to support the development of Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours of the apprenticeship.
This course has been approved for delivery by the NMC in line with the standards.
The course will be delivered in lectures, workshops, small group work/tutorials and seminars and your apprentice will benefit from simulation/skills-based learning in our mock wards and community living clinical learning spaces plus specific in workplace hours linked to the apprenticeship - a separate breakdown of structured hours based on contracted hours will be shared.
Subject to interest, the course can be delivered at both our Colchester and Southend Campuses..
Full-time block practice placements ‘away’ from the apprentice’s usual place of work are also integrated within the programme.
Subject to interest this apprenticeship can be delivered at both our Colchester and Southend campuses.
There is the opportunity upon successful completion to progress onto our BSc Registered Nursing Degree Apprenticeship (BSc Nursing).
£15,000 (80% divided monthly during the practical training period and 20% paid on completion of the End Point Assessment)
Your apprentice will enrol on this 24-month course based at our Colchester campus to gain an undergraduate degree and gain eligibility to apply to the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) to practise as a qualified Speech and Language Therapist.
This course is designed to follow on from the Healthcare Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship and direct entry to this course will require an applicant to demonstrate all of the skills and knowledge otherwise gained in this prior programme.
This apprenticeship is suitable for people with relevant backgrounds in health, social care, or education settings who have the ambition of becoming a qualified Speech and Language Therapist.
Time away from their normal role to study will need to be given as part of the apprenticeship requirements.
This is in order to ensure apprentices can achieve the required apprenticeship standards.
This is a requirement not only to satisfy the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) funding rules, but also to satisfy the criteria of the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists (RCSLT).
The apprentices will require support and supervision from a registered Speech and Language Therapist as a work-based mentor within their workplace to support the development of Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours of the apprenticeship.
Apprentices will be employed in a setting relevant to Speech and Language Therapy and undertaking work meaningfully related to Speech and Language Therapy.
The course will offer an exciting but demanding route to professional qualification.
Apprentices must be prepared to undertake practice placements in settings clinically and geographically diverse from their usual place of work.
This course has been approved for delivery by the HCPC/RCSLT in line with the occupational standards, as outlined by the Institute for Apprenticeship and Technical Education (IfATE).
Failure to provide sufficient support or release of apprentice/s to achieve standards will jeopardise the ability for them to complete the apprenticeship and apply for subsequent registration with the HCPC/RCSLT.
For further information about the Speech and Language Therapist (Integrated Degree) Apprenticeship standards, see the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education website .
It usually takes 44 months to complete the programme which has been designed to be progressively demanding, professionally and academically, so that by the end apprentices can demonstrate mastery of the knowledge and skills specified in the level 6 national apprenticeship standard and those required to apply for Health and Care Professions Council registration and full membership of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy.
£24,000 in total (80% divided monthly during the practical training and 20% paid on completion of the integrated End Point Assessment).
Employer nomination deadline: CLOSED for October 2025 intake.
Nominations for October 2026 will open in January 2026.
Physiotherapy Degree Apprenticeship Webinar - recorded December 2022
You can get more detail on the Apprenticeship Levy from the Education and Skills Funding Agency.
We can help you plan your apprenticeship strategy and how to make the best use of your levy contribution.
Contact us to find out more.
We can also advise on other grants that may be available.
From January 2020 all employers who do not pay the apprenticeship levy (those who have a pay bill under £3 million) are now able to create accounts on the apprenticeship service and are also able to:
Essex County Council are striving to increase apprenticeships within the county.
The Council's new Essex Apprenticeship Levy Transfer Service will allow levy payers to utilise levy to support the apprenticeship training costs for other organisations.
This is an online service that allows companies interested in donating apprenticeship levy funds (maximum of 25%), to view details of opportunities created by other organisations looking for funding.
Organisations can specify their objectives and based on these are matched with other appropriate organisations.
The online system makes the process easy and there is also a dedicated team to support during this process.
The service also helps SMEs to source a levy transfer for their apprentice(s).
By registering for free on their site, you can create an opportunity which will be shown to levy donors who are also registered.
Although there is no guarantee that a levy transfer match will take place, registering will mean that your requirements are given maximum exposure to potential donors.
Find out more about the Essex Apprenticeship Levy Transfer Service or contact the team directly.
How will this help my organisation to donate Levy?
Co-op Levy Share will allow large employers to utilise their levy to support smaller businesses, whether that be developing your supply chain, forming strategic partnerships or demonstrating corporate social responsibility.
Large employers will have exposure to numerous opportunities that they wouldn't have known existed without the site
How will Co-op Levy Share help me if I am looking for a transfer?
By connecting with levy paying organisations you could benefit from fully funded apprenticeship training without needing to pay co-investment costs (funding criteria apply).
You will be able to showcase your opportunity to a large national audience, in a straightforward forward simple way by registering on this site and creating your opportunity.
Find out more about the Co-op Apprenticeship Levy Transfer scheme
All apprenticeship vacancies should be advertised on the Find an Apprenticeship website as those still in education are being encouraged to register and receive updates on newly listed vacancies in the area they are interested in.
The service is free and is the official job site for apprenticeships in England managed by the National Apprenticeship Service enabling your vacancy to be viewed and applied for nationally by candidates who register onto the website making it an easy and convenient way to attract and recruit apprentices.
You can, of course, continue to advertise your vacancy on your own website.
We can upload your vacancy details for you, should you wish: you just need to provide a Job Description and Personal Specification (we can even assist you with templates should you need them) and, although the decision making process is employer led, we can manage the application process by checking applicants entry criteria and eligibility before you shortlist against your own requirements and invite applicants to interview.
Careers Services manage the University of Essex CareerHub vacancy board, which is a free service for organisations to advertise opportunities to both our current students and recent graduates.
Once details are uploaded vacancies are usually published within 24 working hours.
Please contact the Apprenticeship Team if you have a vacancy you wish to advertise at: apprenticeships@essex.ac.uk and we can discuss options and next steps.
We haven't currently got any events scheduled.
Please check back here for information about our future events.
The University of Essex only subcontracts the delivery of Functional Skills in English and Maths at level 2 to an external organisation.
All other provision is delivered solely by the University.
Functional Skills are delivered to apprentices by Adult Community Learning, Essex County Council.
Only apprentices who do not have evidence of a GCSE English and/or Maths grade A-C or 4-9 or an equivalent qualification will be required to complete the Functional Skills programme.
Kick-start your career with a degree or higher apprenticeship.
Earn while you learn and pay no tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/news/2024/02/27/degree-and-higher-apprenticeships-at-essex-rated-good-by-ofsted:
Tue 27 Feb 24
Following an inspection in January, the University received an overall rating of ‘good’ plus ‘good’ ratings for all individual areas assessed including quality of education, behaviour and attitudes, personal development, and leadership and management.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education Professor Madeline Eacott said: “We are delighted our apprenticeship provision has received a rating of ‘good’ across all areas.
“The Ofsted report shows our highly effective model of partnership working with employers ensures that our apprentices receive a high-quality education and achieve excellent outcomes.
We have plans to expand our apprenticeships programmes and so we’re really pleased to receive this very positive endorsement of our work.”
The University delivers a range of higher and degree apprenticeships covering a range of roles.
This includes nursing, health, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, psychological wellbeing, speech and language therapy, embedded electronic systems design and development engineering and senior leadership.
The report said “leaders, managers and academic teaching staff are highly ambitious for their apprentices” and said “leaders have invested in high-quality specialist resources” for courses.
Inspectors also noted close links with employers, particularly the NHS, which means “apprentices benefit from the most up-to-date content”.
They also highlighted that most lecturers are “extremely well-qualified and experienced” which enhances the learning experience for apprentices.
The University is now reviewing the two areas which inspectors said could be improved.
However, overall the report was extremely positive: “Leaders and managers have ensured that apprentices receive a thorough career development programme,” the report stated.
“As a result, apprentices understand the wide range of different career pathways available to them on completion of their apprenticeships.”
The inspection report also found that leaders actively seek and listen to their apprentices and the employers they work with.
Inspectors reported: “Leaders act on this feedback to make continual improvements to the quality of their provision.”
Tue 1 Feb 22

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/programmespecs:
A programme specification is a concise description of a course that leads to a University award.
For each course it describes:
It contains information that may be useful to:
A specification applies to the current academic year only.
If you're thinking of studying with us, you should use our Course finder to help you choose your perfect course.
The specifications represent the most current course structures and may be subject to review and change.
They are updated annually in April/May.
Course specifications for validated degrees delivered at our partner institutions are not held here.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/equality-diversity-and-inclusion:
Essex is an inclusive community where we celebrate diversity and challenge inequality, and we respect, support and encourage one another through our values, our words and, most importantly, our actions.
Our students represent 140 nationalities and over 30 cultures from around the world, making Essex one of the most diverse academic communities in the UK.
We engage in world leading international research collaborations and have developed strong partnerships with institutions around the globe.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/for-all:
We believe that learning extends beyond your degree programme.
That's why we offer short introductory courses to help expand your knowledge and prepare you for whatever life throws at you.
Whether you want to live a sustainable lifestyle, fight for social justice and change or learn a new language to broaden your horizons, our short courses will help you build your skills for future successes.
Languages for All is an award-winning programme designed to open you up to a world of different language opportunities.
Whether it’s taking your first step towards an international career, or to challenge yourself to something new, our language courses give you the opportunity to learn a language at no extra cost alongside your degree, enhance your employability skills and broaden your horizons.
Our Data Science introductory course is designed to give all students, regardless of your previous experience or the subject you are interested in, valuable data skills.
Skills such as using raw and unstructured data to determine trends, patterns and correlations.
These skills are vital in all career sectors to help companies spot opportunities and negotiate risks, and help our graduates become more attractive in a booming job market.
Our Community Organising short course equips you with the knowledge and skills necessary to create meaningful societal change.
Are you passionate about addressing pressing issues of social justice within your community?
Do you envision collaborating with external community-based organisations to tackle the contemporary challenges we all face?
As a student, do you aspire to unite with your peers to affect positive change on issues directly affecting you?
This course is built around providing you with the skills you may need to impact real change once you have graduated.
Health and Wellbeing considers some of the things which are known to impact an individual’s health and wellbeing.
It ranges from:
Our Skills for Success Team at Essex support you with everything you need to do well in your studies that is not directly related to your subject.
This includes providing writing skills workshops, helping you improve your research and referencing skills, maths, statistics and digital skills, and much more.
There is also a range of online materials and resources to help you, no matter what level you are at or what department you study in.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/international-outlook:
We help you thrive in a globalised world by offering unparalleled opportunities to broaden your international outlook.
You'll join a community of 15,000 students representing 140 different nationalities from aroud the world - a vibrant mix of faiths, beliefs and cultural traditions across our three campuses.
We believe that your education goes beyond the classroom.
We are committed to helping you develop a global perspective, whether it’s through studying abroad, engaging with our diverse student body, or participating in global research projects.
We prepare you to become a global citizen, ready to make an impact on the world stage.
As an undergraduate at Essex, you can add a year abroad to your degree, spending your third year at one of over 150 partner universities before returning for a final year at Essex.
Through our Essex Abroad programme, we offer opportunities to study and work overseas, enriching your academic and personal experience.
With our Exchange Program and ISEP program, you can choose from partner universities in Europe, Asia, the Americas, and beyond.
As a part of the Young Universities for the Future of Europe (YUFE) Alliance, Essex can broaden your horizon through YUFE programs, which help you gain new cultural insights while earning credits towards your degree.
YUFE offers you an extensive selection of courses and activities, but also the possibility for the full YUFE experience.
Explore all your possibilities and opportunities from the catalogues!
See where Essex Abroad could take you.
Alternatively, some departments offer a term abroad .
For eligibility details and availability within your department, please check the how to apply pages or speak with your department or the Essex Abroad team .
Essex is also a member of the International Student Exchange Program (ISEP) , a U.S.-based network connecting students to over 200 universities worldwide.
For more information and application details, visit Essex’s ISEP pages and list ISEP as an exchange option.
At Essex, we understand the value of global work experience.
Our international placement opportunities allow you to work in organizations worldwide, giving you practical skills and cultural knowledge to stand out in the global job market.
As a part of the Young Universities for the Future of Europe (YUFE) Alliance, Essex is one of ten young universities helping to create one of the first true European Universities through the Young University for the Future of Europe (YUFE) Alliance.
We're working with partners from higher education, and the non-governmental and private sector to shape the future of European higher education by establishing a European University that's open to all.
Explore all your possibilities and opportunities from the catalogues !
With many vibrant communities to explore, our Students' Union will help you find those that reflect who you are and what you love.
Whether you share interests or backgrounds, there's space for you to thrive and celebrate diversity and passions with people who feel like family.
Discover the perfect opportunity to spend a summer completing an international internship or research abroad.
We've got a range of programmes to suit your needs and give you the best experience possible.
A work placement allows you to apply the skills you’ve gained in the classroom to real-world situations, enhancing both your practical experience and cross-cultural competencies.
We collaborate with select internship providers , and Essex Abroad offers funding opportunities to help support your international internship experience.
We offer a variety of summer school programs in collaboration with our global partner institutions.
Most of our summer schools are subject-specific, while others focus on unique cultural themes.
Discover more details about our summer school offerings .
We partner with select volunteering program providers known for unique and affordable opportunities, as attested by previous participants.
Essex Abroad also provides funding options to support your international volunteering experience.
Through our award-winning Languages for All programme, Essex students are entitled to learn a language alongside their degree, at no extra cost for one year.
We provide a wide range of languages including Arabic, British Sign Language, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin Chinese, Russian and Spanish.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/sport:
You know that motto 'a healthy body means a healthy mind'?
Well here at Essex it's not just your brain we're interested in training.
When it comes to sport, you're in good company with us.
Essex is now one of the UK’s top 30 sporting universities (in the British Universities and Colleges Sport rankings) for the first time in our 60-year history.
We know that exercise improves your mental well being, can help you keep calm during those stressful exam periods and boosts performance in your studies which is why our three campuses offer something for everyone,.
From water sports at our coastal Southend campus , to stage combat for our East 15 Acting School students at Loughton campus , and a full range of on-campus facilities in Colchester .
We have classes and facilities to suit all levels from informal drop-in Active sessions to easy to follow learn-to sports courses.
Essex Sport is our university run scheme that connects all of our amazing sports facilities, whether you are an athlete or an occasional exerciser.
Our Colchester campus gym is home to over 160 fitness stations, on-site parking, machines with TV and audio systems and 300 fitness classes every month !
Then there's our 250-metre climbing wall with bouldering and top roping facilities to take your fitness levels to the top.
Plus over 20 indoor courts, including basketball, volleyball, squash, netball and futsal.
Our Essex Sport Arena at Colchester campus is a multi-purpose space, used for sporting events, exhibitions, dance events and more.
It is also home to our professional basketball and volleyball teams, the Essex Rebels, who compete in top-level national leagues.
If competitive sport isn't your thing, our student social sports programme is an exciting and different way to get involved with sport on campus.
Fancy being part of a club?
The Essex Blades contains 44 clubs and over 4,500 members, so there's bound to be a club you'll enjoy at Essex!
Membership packages have been tailored to suit everyone's needs with options of a monthly direct debit or a one-off annual membership.
Visit our sport pages for further details.
Essex Sport strives to provide innovative, athlete-centred programmes in our performance sports and focus teams: volleyball, basketball, tennis, football and individual athletes and other team sports.
We have a high ambition to become the leading sports institution in the East and offer sports scholarships to ultra-talented athletes, providing coaching and support services, gym memberships and free kits.
We also offer a range of sports bursaries.
Our sports bursaries are cash awards, paid on a termly basis dependent on adherence to sporting and academic targets following a review.
Find out more information and how to apply for one of Sport scholarships or bursaries.
Essex Rebels
Personal trainer training two people in a gym
We've got fantastic sports facilities and we're investing millions into improving them
Two rugby players in white shirts with red lines, tackling another player in a black and yellow shirt and a yellow cap on his head, who is holding the rugby ball tucked under his arm.
student playing throwing frisbee in game of disc golf
Three men, all wearing red t-shirts, running along a path away from the camera.
Students in dance studio at Loughton
January 2018: Essex Blades womens basketball team in action (Mansoor Ahmed Photography)
The Essex Blades is the shared name for all of the SU Sports Clubs on campus.
With 44 clubs and over 4,500 members there's bound to be a club you'll enjoy!
The Blades compete in BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) which, in short, is the most competitive league at university level.
There really is something for everyone, from clubs you're used to playing at school like Netball, Rugby or Football, to ones you perhaps haven't given a go before like Ultimate Frisbee, Fencing or Boxing.
Our clubs train together throughout the year, with many competing in local or national competitions.
The SU offer a variety of social events for Blades members through the year too!
From Derby Day to Alumni Weekend to Sports awards, there's always a chance to celebrate your club's success.
The Essex Rebels is a basketball and volleyball end-to-end programme that encompasses a full pathway from senior professional teams through to the Rebels Roadshow schools outreach programme.
The name of the Essex Rebels reflects the history of both the University of Essex and the city of Colchester in which the University resides.
Students at the University have been known for their political activism throughout its history, reflected in the strapline of ‘Rebels with a Cause’.
Both our Men and Women's teams are comprised of inspirational role models, our players are drawn from across the World, as well as young players from the Basketball England talent pathway.
The Essex Rebels have also been awarded the 'Best Gameday Experience Award' from basketball's national governing body two years straight.
Learn more about the Essex Rebels teams.
But of course The Blades and The Rebels would be nothing without the backing of the Essex community.
The Tribe is the official University of Essex student section bringing student fans together to stand behind all representative sport teams at Essex.
The Tribe are proudest, loudest and most inclusive supports club in the UK.
You don't need to play to join The Tribe - it's free to join and open to all.
Back your team, feel the vibe, join The Tribe.
Take your exercise into the fresh air in our 40 acres of outdoor sport area, including an all-weather tennis court, 18-hole disc golf course, three jogging routes, two rugby pitches, seven football pitches, two cricket squares, four tennis courts, a netball court and an artificial pitch for hockey.
If you are looking to take a leisurely stroll, you can just enjoy the 200 acres of scenic parkland around campus (it's even won the Green Flag Award !).
If competitive sport isn't your thing, Essex offers the excellent Just Play scheme .
Just Play focuses on engaging students from all abilities and backgrounds, with a non-competitive and low commitment sport.
They plan a minimum of two large scale events per term such as gaming days or the Holi Festival.
You can always keep up to date with the latest information by searching Just Play on social media.
Check out some of the action in the video of our Nerf gun wars, hosted on campus by our Student Union's Just Play scheme.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/community-action-clinic:
The Community Action Clinic helps students develop the knowledge and skills needed to initiate societal change and also works with them to put it into action.
We empower students to address vital social justice issues through community organising.
By collaboratively campaigning with external organisations such as Citizens UK and Citizen Essex, students tackle challenges such as street lighting, housing, violence, living wage, and refugee issues.
Our dynamic student community fosters real-life campaign skills, including public speaking and leadership, while working closely with local civil society enhances the university's civic role.
Democracy in Action is an award-winning module on community organising, offered in collaboration with Citizens UK to students in their final year at University.
Rooted in principles of coproduction and participatory action research, it fosters democratic exchange and collective engagement.
This initiative not only enhances student learning but also brings tangible benefits to the wider community by addressing social issues and forming partnerships with local organizations like Colchester Foodbank and The Salvation Army.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/student-communities/commuting-students:
As a commuting student, you may be worried that you are missing out on some of the University experience by not living on campus, or that it may be expensive.
You may also be anxious about meeting new people and making friends.
However, commuting can have many benefits, and can also be a great way to balance university and home life.
Lots of students every year choose to commute to Essex, and it is important to remember there is no ‘right’ way to be a student.
We have put together some useful information for commuting students, to help you get the best out of your time at Essex.
We have plenty of information available about ways to travel to our Campuses, including by car, bus, train and coach.
Parking and permits at Colchester Campus or parking in Southend .
Also see our tips and advice on parking and discount travel information .
UNiDAYS and Student Beans are good ways to find the latest student discounts.
You can bring your own food and drink onto campus to help save money – investing in a travel mug for hot drinks and a cooler bag may be really useful for helping food and drink stay fresh.
The Mezz is a social space that is open even after the SU Lounge closes.
There are sofas, chairs and microwaves.
Tip: lunchtimes (12pm-2pm) can get busy.
The are a number of locations and types of places you can study on campus .
Facilities at The Forum , including photocopiers, vending machines and water coolers.
Jobs on campus are available and are a great way to earn extra money, gain experience, as well as meet new people.
The Students’ Union advertises available vacancies and the University advertises on Essex Career Hub .
Students’ Union societies are a great way to meet other students and there is only a small joining fee.
Societies are actively encouraged to organise non-alcoholic, daytime events.
There are regular social events on campus organised by both the University and the Students’ Union:
When attending social events, you could check with the event organiser whether you can bring a non-student friend along for moral support.
Sports clubs in Colchester and Southend are also a great place to meet like-minded individuals.
Becoming a course rep is a great way to engage with others on your course, as well as staff in your department.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/colchester-campus/local-area:
The historic city of Colchester is ideally located close to the coast of East Anglia, on the border with Suffolk and just 50 miles and 50 minutes by train from London.
Colchester's Norman Castle and surrounding park is host to many festivals, concerts and other events, and the city boasts a theatre, music venues and street markets in the midst of a thriving shopping district.
Colchester Campus is just two miles from Colchester city centre.
There's so much to see and do while you're here - from arts and culture to water sports, Colchester Zoo, vintage shopping to high tea in country estates, and the hottest gigs to ghost walks - the hardest bit will be fitting it all in.
As Britain’s oldest recorded settlement, Colchester has a rich and varied heritage stored in its fascinating tale of Roman, Saxon, and Norman history.
Today, you can delve into the historical roots of the city by visiting its local museums, galleries, and ruins.
Colchester is a cultural hub with plenty of artistic flair.
The city has a great selection of theatres, museums, and galleries hosting an exciting programme of exhibitions, performances, and events throughout the year.
Whether you prefer being outdoors or indoors, relaxing, being energetic, or are simply just looking for somewhere to hang out with friends.
You will be spoiled for choice with what’s on offer in Colchester.
While Campus boasts its own lively selection of restaurants and bars to keep you entertained between study sessions, sometimes it’s nice to switch up the scenery and head off campus into the main city centre.
With more than 350 miles of shore, Essex boasts the longest coastline in the country, and the Colchester Campus is ideally positioned for a day out, filled with adventure and fresh sea air.
Colchester city centre offers a varied shopping experience, with wide selection of independent shops, nestled alongside department stores and big highstreet brands as well as offering regular market days and plenty of restaurants, bars, and street food vendors.
And with good links to shopping centres in Ipswich, Chelmsford, Braintree, London, Lakeside and Bluewater, you’ll be able to shop until you drop while you’re here.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/southend-campus/local-area:
The Essex seaside city, Southend-on-Sea runs along the South East coast of England, connecting the Thames estuary to the North Sea.
Southend is renowned for its landmark pier – the longest of its kind in the world, its award-winning beaches, and its illuminated nightlife.
The city also has its own airport, and a train ride to London takes less than one hour.
With over 300 places to eat, award-winning nightlife, a theme park, museums, sporting opportunities, and even an international airport, we think you’ll discover there’s much more besides the seaside in Southend.
When the sun goes down, Southend most definitely lights up!
Whether you fancy fish and chips on the beach as the sun goes down, a few quiet drinks at the bar or showing off your best dance moves at a club – Southend has got it all.
The city will spoil you for choice with its vast offering of bars, clubs, restaurants, and seafront pubs and a great selection of live music, theatre, and comedy shows, making Southend’s nightlife like no other.
Southend has two large shopping centres at either end of its High Street, right beside the campus.
Both offer a huge selection of independent boutiques and big brand retailers, as well as a variety of stores, bars, and restaurants along the surrounding side streets – so grab your student card and shop til you drop!
This lively city centre also hosts regular market days offering the best local produce, handmade goods, and vintage treasures that you won’t find anywhere else.
You can take a break from studying with a walk on the beach
Southend seafront is full of attractions, including the world's longest pleasure pier
You can take a walk with friends down the world's longest pleasure pier
Adventure Island theme park is located on the seafront
Take a dip if you're brave enough!
Southend boasts seven miles of stunning coastline
A night out in Southend-on-Sea is hard to beat

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/loughton-campus/local-area:
Loughton campus is bordered by Epping Forest, London’s largest open space, and one of the UK’s biggest ancient woodlands.
Alternatively hop on the Central line from Debden underground station and within half an hour you can be among the buzz, excitement, and rich cultural diversity of central London’s restaurants, shops, theatres and more.
Loughton town centre also offers a rich variety of shops, restaurants, pubs and cafés and has a leisure centre providing gym and pool facilities.
For music lovers, Loughton is home to the National Jazz Archive , the most comprehensive collection of artefacts, documents, photos and history of jazz in the UK.
The archive also hosts events and concerts.
Not too far from campus, you'll find the William Morris Gallery , in Morris's own family home, an impressive Georgian mansion built in the 1740s.
For the best theatres, museums and galleries in the world, hop on the central line from Debden and head into London.
Below is just a fraction of the world beating cultural gems spread across our vibrant capital city:
Loughton Leisure Centre has a swimming pool and a gym and offers a variety of workout classes.
Just 20 minutes on the Central Line will take you to Stratford where you will find an incredible variety of leisure, sports and entertainment options.
Fitness fanatics, the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park has it all.
Take a swim or hit the gym at the  Aquatics Centre, or take an adrenaline ride on the uniuque Arcelormittal Orbit , the world’s longest and tallest tunnel slide.
While there, pop into Westfield Stratford City , where you'll find shops and restaurants galore and an entertainment complex including Vue cinemas and live music venues.
The Plume of Feathers is the nearest pub to campus, located on Church Hill and you can find a range of pubs, bars and restaurants on the nearby Loughton Broadway and High Road.
If you’re looking for much greater choice, head into central London for the best nightlife the UK’s capital has to offer.
The night tube runs all night on Fridays and Saturdays on the Central, Jubilee, Northern and Piccadilly lines.
See the Transport For London website for more details.
Epping Forest is an area of international importance for its unique habitat and rare species with 50,000 ancient trees and over 100 lakes and ponds.
If you’re not afraid to get muddy, grab a mountain bike, or saddle up and try horse-riding.
Alternatively, take a gentle walk throughout the 6,000 acres of beautiful, ancient woodland, and see what rare wildlife you can spot.
The historic market town of Waltham Abbey is very close by, where you can visit the botanical Abbey gardens , browse the traditional market stalls, and step back over 500 years into a 15th century pub for lunch.
You’ll find the closest coast at our other East 15 Campus in Southend .
There you can experience life beside the seaside: walk the world’s longest pleasure pier, enjoy award winning sandy beaches and taste the UK’s famous fish and chips.
For adrenalin junkies the Lee Valley White Water Centre is not far away, where you'll find kayaking, white water rafting, paddle boarding and more.
Loughton's own Broadway is located five minutes from Hatfields, with ATMs, local shops, cafes, restaurants and a post office, while the High Road is a slightly longer 15-20 minute walk from campus but has major brands and numerous cafes and restaurants.
For the biggest and best brands in the world, London’s famous Oxford Street and West End shops are just 30 minutes away on the underground from Debden and Westfield Stratford City , Europe's largest urban shopping mall is just 20 minutes from the Loughton campus on the central line.
You'll find 250 retailers and 70 food outlets offering unrivaled choice under one roof, from big brands to pop-up independents alongside leisure and entertainment activities.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/apply:
You can apply for accommodation using our online application process.
This is normally available through the myEssex Applicant Portal .
However, some applications are made via other routes.
All deadline dates for applications will be published on these pages.
If you are allocated accommodation with us you are entering into a legal contract with Accommodation Essex.
As such, you should read our Terms and Conditions and Policy documents before applying to live with us.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/payments:
Payment details for your accommodation are in your letter of allocation.
All accommodation charges are to be paid termly in advance.
We have several different payment options available to you, including online, via our student online payment system through Web Pay, to make credit/debit card payments.
Please do NOT use this system to make your advanced rent payment.
You must be registered with the University and have an Essex login name and password in order to pay securely using this system.
You'll also need your PRID (for example, SMITH12345) which is shown on your letter of allocation.
You can also pay via UK opening banking and bank transfer, in person, or there are international payment options available as well.
Check out our how to pay your fees information for further details.
Our income desks will be open for limited face-to-face payments via debit or credit card.
Our opening hours are 10am to 4pm, Monday to Friday.
From 1st December 2024 our acceptance of payments over the telephone will be withdrawn from our ways to pay.
Accommodation term dates for the 2025-26 academic year
If payment is not received by the above dates, your accommodation internet may be disconnected.
If any cheque is returned unpaid, a £25 administration fee will also be charged.
Any reminders from the University will be sent via email to your University email address.
You will need to pay a £250 advanced rent payment (to be deducted from your first term’s rental charges) as part of the acceptance process.
The refund deadline for this payment is 60 days before the start date of your contract.
Details of how you intend to pay should be entered on your accommodation application form and your PG number must be written on the reverse or attached to all methods of payment.
If you are not able to pay your advanced rent payment at the point of acceptance, please contact the Student Information Team in the Student Services Hub .
Please do not try and pay your advanced rent payment via the student online payment system.
We have experienced difficulty tracing such payments in the past and this option has therefore been discontinued.
On the application form you will be asked to select your preferred locations.
Select these in order of preference, but do not select any location which you would not be prepared to accept.
Unfortunately we are not able to guarantee that you will be offered your first choice of accommodation and we will not make another offer if you decline the room.
Once you have paid the advanced rent payment and accepted the offer, you have formed a contract which is legally binding and as such you will not be able to give notice to leave.
If you reject your accommodation offer, the offer will be withdrawn and your application closed.
For students applying for accommodation in Colchester, we’re including an Essex Sport Silver membership package within your rent.
See what's included within the Silver student membership package.
Download your welcome pack and find  all the information you need to help you settle in, including contact details for accommodation and emergency numbers for out-of-hours support.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/colchester:
Accommodation at Essex is more than just a room.
It’s your place to connect and thrive, make friends for life, and embrace the moments that make you.
We know that for some of you, moving away from home may seem like a daunting prospect; that’s why at Essex we try our hardest to help you settle in, starting by guaranteeing accommodation for the duration of your course .
Giving our students the opportunity to live at the heart of a vibrant community with shared values and diverse interest, in an environment where you will succeed.
Where you live is a very important part of your experience here at Essex, and with our wide range of options within walking distance of campus facilities you have plenty to choose from.
Bills are included in your rent including Wi-Fi, heating, hot water, contents insurance, electricity and the cleaning of communal areas.
Plus, living on our Colchester campus you also receive an Essex Sport gym membership.
Rooms for undergraduates are normally let for the full academic year, from late September to the end of June, which means that even if you're away from the University during the winter and spring vacations, you don't have to remove your things from your room.
Postgraduate students let rooms for 50 weeks, until mid-September.
Our single accommodation is arranged into self-catering flats, complete with fully equipped shared kitchens.
We also have adapted rooms and shared accommodation available, so you'll be able to find the perfect place for you.
Explore our campus facilities and get a feel for accommodation using our virtual tour tool.
You are required to maintain a standard of conduct within the accommodation that promotes a good order and the reputation of the University.
In accepting a place within our accommodation, you agree to be bound by the University's rules and regulations, which include the Code of Student Conduct (.pdf).
The Meadows offers quiet and spacious rooms, just a short walk from the centre of campus
The Towers have great social spaces and great views!
South Courts is near lots of green space and is close to the centre of campus

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/southend:
Starting university is about so much more than just studying - it's about making lifelong friends, growing in independence, encountering new cultures, nationalities and experiences.
We know that for some of you, moving away from home may seem like a daunting prospect; after all this might be the first time you've lived away from your family.
That's why at Essex we try our hardest to help you settle in, starting by guaranteeing accommodation for the duration of your course, meaning you can say goodbye to yearly house hunting knowing Essex has your room ready for you.
With all the amenities of the city on your doorstep, and all the perks of University accommodation, you get the best of both worlds at University Square.
Just off the High Street and minutes from the Gateway Building and The Forum, our bright and modern accommodation at University Square is unmissable (literally).
There are over 560 student rooms arranged in flats, within seven houses situated around a central enclosed courtyard.
Included in your rent is wifi, heating, hot water, contents insurance, electricity and the cleaning of communal areas (such as kitchens) - so no need to argue about whose turn it is to hoover!
Rooms are normally let for the full academic year from late September to the end of June, which means that even if you're away from the University during the winter and spring vacations, you don't have to remove your things from your room.
Explore our Southend campus facilities and get a feel for accommodation using our virtual tour tool.
University Square kitchens are great social spaces
One of the rooms in University Square
There's a large common room with internet access, widescreen televisions and vending facilities

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/off-campus:
The Students’ Union provides a property finding service, SU Homes , which specialises in helping students secure local, private accommodation.
With a range of properties available: including shared houses, resident landlords, family-friendly housing, entire houses, and purpose built student accommodation; there's something for everyone.
SU Homes does not charge administration fees and your deposit is held securely as part of a government-authorised deposit scheme.
As from 1 February 2016, all landlords have to check your immigration status gives you the right to rent in the UK before granting a tenancy agreement within private housing.
SU Homes will help you at every stage of the process, from finding the property that will become your home, to signing the contract and moving in.
We are located on Square 3 at our Colchester Campus.
SU Homes can help you find the perfect local, private accommodation.
If you're living off campus for the first time you may want to use a Student Budget Calculator to help with budgeting before moving into your new home.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/students-with-individual-needs:
We have a range of individual needs rooms with various adaptions, including:
Although every effort is made to assist in making reasonable adjustments to suit the needs of individuals, further funding and support may be required to arrange more specific specialised adaptations and equipment.
Further information and a guide to applying for accommodation can be found in our accommodation accessibility brochures below and on our access and disability pages .
We understand that some students may have specific medical conditions or allergies that don't require structural room adaptions but do necessitate particular living arrangements.
This is something we can adviser upon and take into consideration in room allocations.
We do have regular Offer Holder Days and Open Days throughout the year and as part of this you can view on-campus accommodation, including adapted rooms.
The events are run by Communications and External Relations and the tours are given by our Student Ambassadors.
Before applying please ensure that you read the guidance from Student Support and contact the Accessibility and Wellbeing Service via email .
They will be able to provide advice and information about how your accommodation needs may be met and also provide information about funding for specialist individual equipment e.g.
ceiling mounted hoists.
The Fire Safety Officer can discuss and agree a personal emergency evacuation plan for you to use in the event of an emergency if you have a disability, long term medical condition, or temporary condition which may impact on your safe evacuation.
If you do not require an adapted room, but it would be beneficial to be on the ground floor, please let us know when you apply.
Those with a blue badge can register their vehicle each year for a small fee and use the accessible parking spaces in the car parks.
For students with more limiting conditions, there is the option to apply for a dedicated space under podia.
Upon assessment by the Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service (SWIS) a space will be allocated, if one is available.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/next-steps:
Find out the next steps you'll need to take after applying for accommodation at Essex.
Full details of your accommodation offer will be sent to you by email.
We endeavour to start sending offers out from late March 2025.
An accommodation advanced rent payment is no longer required at the point of application.
Instead, it will be payable when you accept your offer.
Your offer of accommodation will be emailed to the address you supplied with your application to study at the University (or your @essex.ac.uk email address, if you have one) and will contain details about your room and the accommodation charges.
You will have a limited time to accept your offer of accommodation so it is very important that you check this email account regularly throughout the entire summer.
Your offer of accommodation will be emailed to the address you supplied with your application to study at the University, and will contain details about your room and the accommodation charges.
You will receive an offer of accommodation, as soon as you have an unconditional academic offer from the University.
Information about your accepted offer of accommodation will be emailed to the address you supplied to UCAS (or your @essex.ac.uk email address, if you have one) and will contain details about your room and the accommodation charges.
Once your application has been submitted, we will contact you as soon as we are able to offer you accommodation.
Room details and charges will be emailed to your University of Essex email address.
In order to be made an offer of accommodation before the beginning of the summer term, you need to return your online application.
You must do this before the deadline.
We will begin allocating accommodation from early spring and all applicants will receive their offers by the start of the summer term.
Please make sure you check your email account regularly for your offer.
Accepting your offer
You will need to accept your offer of accommodation before its expiry date in order to confirm your allocation for the next academic year.
The offer expiry date will be clearly specified in the offer letter.
Once you have accepted the offer you have formed a contract which is binding and you will not be able to give notice on the room unless you withdraw from the University.
If you used the Book Now processes, your room will be confirmed immediately upon acceptance, and confirmation will be sent to your registered email account.
If you have applied for accommodation by selecting areas of preference, then an offer will be sent out to you as soon as possible.
Returning students must complete the application by 31 July, to qualify for the cashback.
Please also note that postgraduate students will be required to make an Advanced Rent Payment of £250 when you accept your accommodation offer.
Postgraduate
Once your application has been submitted we will contact you as soon as possible and confirm whether or not we are able to offer you accommodation for January 2025.
Any offer of accommodation we are able to make will be emailed to the address you supplied with your application to study at the University and will contain details about your room and the accommodation charges.
You will have a limited time to accept your offer of accommodation so it is very important that you check this email account regularly.
Please also note that an Advanced Rent Payment of £250 will be payable when you accept your accommodation offer.
Undergraduate
If you accept your accommodation offer you will be entering into a legal contract with Accommodation Essex and you will be liable to pay the rent for your room for the period stated on your offer letter.
Please read our Terms and Conditions of Residence carefully before accepting any offer of accommodation.
Contact your Student Services Hub if you have any queries.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/our-quality-standards:
We are a member of Universities UK and comply with the Student Accommodation Code of Practice (SAC) for the management of student housing, that covers our main campus and Southend accommodation.
DerwentFM, who manage The Meadows, University Quays and The Copse, and Equans, who manage The Pastures, are part of The Accreditation Network UK (ANUK) for the management of large student accommodation developments.
The SAC sets out the main elements of good management practice of student housing within the UK.
We are part of the scheme, to help make sure you have the best experience whilst living on campus.
The Code protects your rights to:
Further information can be found online on the SAC website .
The Accreditation Network UK (ANUK)/ Unipol National Code of Standards for Large Student Developments, covers The Meadows, The Copse, and University Quays, which are managed by Derwent Students, as well as The Pastures accommodation, which are managed by Equans.
Both Derwent and Equans are part of the scheme to make sure you have the best experience whilst living on campus.
The Code is in place to:
Further information can be found online on the ANUK website .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/terms-and-policies:
As such, you should read our Terms and Conditions, and Policy documents before applying to live with us.
Please read our Terms and Conditions of Residence documents before accepting our offer of accommodation.
Offer Overview
1.1.
Students who apply for campus accommodation between 1 August 2025 and midnight (GMT) on 1 October 2025 will receive £100 rent credit, applied to their student account.
1.2.
This is a one-time credit per qualifying application.
Eligibility
2.1.
Available only to returning students starting in October 2025, enrolled full-time at the University of Essex during the 2025–26 academic year.
2.2.
Applicable to Essex2Essex Postgraduate students and returning Undergraduate students.
2.3.
Not available for new Undergraduate or Postgraduate students or students enrolling via University of Essex International College, South Essex College or North West University.
The only exceptions to this are University of Essex International College students who stayed with university owned or administrated accommodation in the academic year of 2024/25.
Application Requirements
3.1.
Applicants must move in for the 2025–26 academic year.
3.2.
Must receive and accepted October-start accommodation offer in university-owned or managed residences.
3.3.
Completion of a previous Academic-Year-long accommodation contract is required.
Rent Credit Payment
4.1.
The £100 rent credit will be applied to the student account in October 2025, once all of the following are fulfilled:
* Student has moved into the accommodation within 2 weeks of their start date on contract
* No outstanding accommodation fees or debt to the University
4.2.
Rent credit will be applied in October 2025.
5.
Previous Tenancy Obligations
5.1.
Students with unresolved accommodation debt will be ineligible for this offer and cannot proceed with a new tenancy until debts are cleared.
5.2.
The University reserves the right to withhold accommodation allocation until all previous debts are settled.
6.
General Provisions
6.1.
Applies only to contracts for university-owned or managed accommodation.
6.2.
Offer subject to availability; University may amend or withdraw this offer at any time without prior notice.
6.3.
This offer is non-withdrawable and will be applied as a credit to the student’s accommodation account, to be deducted from their rent balance.
6.4.
Any disputes will be resolved at the sole discretion of University of Essex Campus Services (UECS).
7.
Data Protection
7.1.
By participating, you consent to the University processing your personal data for the purposes of administering this offer, in accordance with UK data protection legislation and University privacy policies.
Refer-a-Friend – October Start £100 rent credit offer (August–October 2025).
If you have an accepted offer of campus accommodation for the 2025/26 academic year, you can refer a friend to stay with us, and both earn £100 rent credit.
Once you’ve accepted your offer, we’ll send you a link to our referral form — simply pass it on to your friend to complete.
We’ll take care of the rest.
Please note: the person you refer must not already have accepted a university owned or administered accommodation contract for 2025/26 academic year before the referral form is submitted.
Available to returning postgraduate students, returning Undergraduate students, or Essex2Essex students transitioning from undergraduate to postgraduate only.
Not available to new Undergraduate or Postgraduate students.
Applications must be submitted between 1 August 2025 and midnight (GMT) on Wednesday, 1 October 2025.
This must be the first and only accommodation applicationsubmitted for the 2025/26 academic year.
The referred student must successfully move in within the first 2 weeks of their start date on contract and have made their first terms rent.
The £100 rent credit will be paid to your student account in October 2025 if above terms met.
Students with outstanding debt to the University from previous tenancy/license agreements must clear their balance before a new contract can be issued.
Only full-time registered students at the University of Essex in the 2025/26 academic year are eligible.
The offer applies only to accommodation that is owned or managed by the University of Essex.
Offer is subject to availability and may be amended or withdrawn at any time.
This is not available to students studying with the University of Essex International College, South Essex College, North West University or Students studying with Essex Online.
Essex2Essex students who are transitioning from undergraduate to postgraduate are eligible for this offer.
The Returners cashback offer has been extended to 31 July 2025.
The tiered cashback amounts and terms remain the same as the period November-January period.
This offer is only available to October start students who will be studying full-time at the University of Essex during the 2025-2026 academic year.
1.2 Students cannot be entering the first year of study on their selected course.
The only exceptions to this are Essex to Essex or University of Essex International College students who stayed with university owned or administrated accommodation in the academic year of 2024/25.
1.3.
This is not available to students studying with the South Essex College, North West University or Students studying with Essex Online.
1.4 Applications for accommodation must be completed between 19th November 2024 and midnight on 31st July 2025 to qualify for cashback.
1.5 Students must obtain a full academic year accommodation contract with university-owned or managed accommodations.
Accommodation and Cashback Tiers
The cashback amount depends on the type of accommodation booked:
£100 Cashback
£250 Cashback
£500 Cashback
£750 Cashback
Cashback is not available for bookings of studios or self-contained apartments in any area.
2.3 Cashback amount be will be based off the room you are living in at the point of the cashback being distributed in January 2026.
Payment of Cashback
The cashback payment will be made in January 2026, provided the applicant has successfully:
The cashback will be credited to the applicant’s Student Account.
If the applicant has previously held a tenancy or license agreement with the University, the obligation to grant a new tenancy is conditional upon the applicant having paid all outstanding sums due under prior agreements.
Applicants with unpaid debt from earlier contracts will be ineligible for this offer and will not be able to take up a new tenancy.
General Terms
This offer is valid only for university-owned or managed accommodations.
The offer is subject to availability and may be subject to change without prior notice.
UECS reserves the right to amend or waive any of these Rules or cancel the competition at any time.
5.3 This offer is not available with any other offer except the Athlete Village package.
5.4 The winner of the win free accommodation competition will not be eligible for any cashback.
By participating in this offer, you consent to UECS processing your personal data for the purposes of administering the cashback payment.
For any queries regarding this offer, please contact askthehub@essex.ac.uk.
Students who apply for returning accommodation in university owned or administrated accommodation between 1ST November 2024 and 30th April 2025 at midnight will be entered into a draw to win a £50 Circuit Go Laundry voucher.
We will randomly select 20 winners and notify the winners on 1st May 2025 via email.
The vouchers will be distributed when you move into your accommodation for the academic year 2025/26.
You can enter this alongside the win free accommodation competition and receive your designated cashback if you meet the criteria.
The vouchers will be supplied as codes, which will need to be entered into the Circuit Go app by the winner to add credit to their account.
If you cancel your contract for 2025/26 you will not be entitled to the vouchers.
The University of Essex, ‘Win Free Accommodation’ competition is being held by University of Essex Campus Services (UECS).
The competition is open to those who are studying at the University of Essex, starting the academic year in October 2025.
This is not open to students studying with the University of Essex International College, South Essex College, or Students studying with Essex Online.
If a student has outstanding debt to the University, they will be excluded from the prize draw.
The competition opens on Tuesday 19th November 2024.
The competition will close at midnight GMT on Wednesday 1st October 2025.
Any entries received after this date will not be eligible for a prize.
The prize may only be redeemed by students who have a tenancy agreement for a university owned or administered room on a full academic year contract.
The prize value is the equivalent 2025/26 rent cost associated with staying in a South Courts - single ensuite room on a 39-week tenancy to the sum of £7,717.71.
If the winner is not staying in South Courts, but still in university owned or administered accommodation, £7,717.71 will be discounted from the alternative accommodation.
No cash value will be given should the winner choose to stay in alternative that is less than £7,717.71.
Winners will be chosen at the discretion of UECS.
The winner will be notified via email after an announcement on Wednesday 22nd October 2025.
The winner will be requested to take part in any prize promotional activity and UECS reserves the right to use the name and location of the winner, their photograph, audio and/or visual recording of them in relation to any competition publicity or for UECS marketing purposes.
By entering this competition, you agree that if awarded the prize you will co-operate with all reasonable publicity purposes if so requested.
The prize may be withdrawn if the winner does not participate in these promotions.
This prize is non-transferable and may only be redeemed by the winner selected by UECS.
UECS’s decision will be final and binding, and no correspondence or discussion will be entered into regarding the conduct or outcome of the competition.
The winner will not be eligible to claim any other University of Essex discount or incentive towards their accommodation.
UECS’s reserves the right in its reasonable discretion:
By entering this competition, you agree that UECS shall have no liability for any printing, production and/or distribution errors (including but not limited to any errors in UoE, this website or any printed materials) or where there have been any errors in any aspect of the preparation for or conduct of the competition materially affecting the result of the competition.
Subject to Condition 7 above, any personal data submitted by you in your entry to this competition will be used solely in accordance with current UK data protection legislation and UoE's privacy policy.
No refund will be given if the prize winner withdraws from the University or cancels their accommodation contract, or if the University enforces eviction proceedings under their rights as outlined within the tenancy agreement.
Entry to the competition confirms your acceptance of these Rules.
Queries relating to the competition should be emailed to askthehub@essex.ac.uk
The third party policy sets out the University's position regarding contact with third parties in connection with students registered at the University.
The University of Essex has a notification under the terms of the Data Protection Act 1998 (GDPR) to enable it to hold and process data about its students and landlords for the purposes of providing accommodation for its students.
Data will be processed in accordance with the provisions of the Act and will only be disclosed within the University to members of staff who need to know it in order to carry out their duties, or to others connected with the University for University-related activities or events.
The University works in partnership with Derwent Living, ULiving, and Kaplan International Partnerships to provide campus accommodation.
Information about students in accommodation is shared with Derwent, ULiving, and Kaplan International Partnerships as necessary in order to provide a consistent and efficient service to students.
Download our Communications policy (.pdf)
Policy for Management of Accommodation Rent Debt (.pdf)

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/apply/returning-students:
Returning accommodation applications for the academic year 2025-2026 are now open!
We are now offering guaranteed accommodation for the duration of your course.
Meaning you can say goodbye to yearly house hunting knowing Essex has your room ready for you, (*T&Cs apply).
IMPORTANT: please remember, there is no cooling off period.
You cannot cancel your contract with us once accepted/confirmed, unless you withdraw or intermit from the University, even if you don't move in.
So please consider carefully before confirming your booking through Book Now or accepting an offer we have sent you.
Find out how you can pay for your accommodation at Essex and your payment deadlines.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/advice-and-support:
Your Student Services Hub is the place for advice, support and the information you need.
Get help in an emergency and out-of-hours support .
Below are all the services provided by the Student Services Hub.
If you can't find what you're looking for, try the search function in the Student Directory .
For new students you’ll first be contacted on your personal email to ask you to set up your new Essex IT account.
You will then use your Essex login to register online.
All students must register with the University, including payment of fees, before you are able to access your online Welcome programme or attend teaching.
Our International Services team can produce the following documents for UK immigration purposes only:
Fill in our immigration enquiry form for current Essex students and let us know which of these documents you require.
We’ll need your employers name, if it’s for employment purposes.
Find out about the range of IT services at the University and support available to you.
The Careers Service provides support and advice to help you develop your skills, find opportunities and gain experiences throughout your time at university and beyond.
We offer a range of events, workshops, webinars or 1-1 appointments and search a range of job opportunities, all bookable via CareerHub , whilst CareerHub+ provides 24/7 careers support online via a wide range of interactive resources.
If you can't find the information you need on the Student Directory , contact our Student Services Hub team:
Term time
Vacation
To visit our Southend and Loughton Hubs, you’ll need to pre-book your appointment.
This includes booking an appointment for your in-person registration appointment.
Please use our booking system (below) to do this.
Please note that the Student Services Desk in Southend will be closed on: Friday 29 August, Friday 5 September, Thursday 11 September and Friday 12 September 2025.
It is strongly encouraged that you call first for the latest opening times.
We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause.
Book an online appointment with an adviser – Appointments are via Zoom every Tuesday and Thursday 10am-11am – please use live chat or call us to book an appointment.
Immigration advice and guidance is regulated in the UK by the Office of the Immigration Services commissioner, this means only authorised University teams can provide you with guidance and advice about the UK’s Student Immigration Rules.
We recommend you read the extensive information about Immigration and Visas contained within our International Student area and Student Directory .
After reading the online information, if you can’t find what you’re looking for or need further guidance, you’ll be able to contact the relevant team by following instructions and links within the pages..
You can also read the UKCISA (UK Council for International Student Affairs) webpages and contact their student advice line if you have a question.
Your school, department or centre is available to help and provide you with information and guidance related to your studies, including:
We'll do our best to answer your question directly.
Even if we cannot answer it, we will guide you to someone who can.
Details of who to contact in your school or department can be found your Student Handbook or online.
You can also contact your Personal Tutor who is there to help you feel connected to your department, school or centre and is someone you can talk to if you have questions about your course or encounter any difficulties which affect your studies.
As part of your experience at Essex, we want you to benefit from the wisdom and experience of those students or alumni who have been down a similar path.
Find out more about mentoring .
We aim to give you the highest levels of service at the Student Services Hub.
If you're unhappy with the
service you've received, we will investigate what has happened and respond to
you as quickly as possible, normally within 10 working days.
If it takes longer to resolve your complaint, we'll send you an update and a revised timescale.
We'll confirm we've received your email, normally within three days of receipt.
It may be necessary for us to contact you to ask further questions.
If this is the case
we will use your University email address (please indicate in your initial email if you'd like an alternative address to be used).
If you remain unhappy once we have looked into the matter then you can take
things further by submitting a formal complaint .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/careers/jobs-on-campus:
Looking to work while you study?
Get a part-time job and develop essential skills for
your CV.
Don’t overdo it!
Remember to balance your study/work commitments; we
recommend that you work no more than fifteen hours per week.
Essex CareerHub includes our free vacancy board, advertising a range of
opportunities, including part-time jobs.
Sign in using your Essex login.
Accommodation Essex have temporary housekeeper/porter positions available
starting in June.
The term of the employment can be anything from two weeks to four
months dependent on business needs.
They also employ Welcome Assistants during Arrivals Day.
The role includes
working within the student residences, meeting and greeting our new students and
their families, answering general queries, signposting around campus, and conducting questionnaires.
Essex Food is often looking for staff to carry out a variety of duties in restaurants and
cafes on campus on an ‘as-and-when’ basis.
Visit the Essex Food office (room
4NA.6.1) to register your interest or email efood@essex.ac.uk .
Essex Interns are exclusive paid internships for current students with university
departments and local employers.
Find out more about Essex Interns .
Event Essex employs conference team leaders and assistants.
with good customer
service, admin skills and campus knowledge.
Roles are full-time, from mid-June to
mid-September.
Digital Innovation and Technology Services hire IT Student Assistants (ITSAs).
These can be technical or non-technical roles, including support for the IT Helpdesk,
IT technicians, IT training, Media Centre, and project management.
Vacancies can occur throughout the year but are posted from July to September.
Student Ambassadors are trained to represent the University of Essex across
Recruitment, Outreach and Marketing teams’ activities.
They have the opportunity to
work on various events on campus, in schools and colleges and virtually.
If you
would like to be notified when applications are open, please register your interest using our online form.
The Students’ Union recruit in a wide range of areas including retail, catering, bars,
marketing, reception and office-based roles SU vacancies are advertised throughout
the year.
If you are struggling to find part-time work, we recommend you search for
recruitment agencies via The Recruitment and Employment Confederation .
For local part-time opportunities consider the following sites:
Also, search for jobs in your local area on LinkedIn , Facebook, and X .
Use the Government’s Find a Job page to look for part-time work in the local area.
You can search for jobs without an account but will need to create one to apply.
Take your CV into the city centre and look out for job vacancies advertised in shop
windows, or speak to the managers of the places you’re interested in working.
You can also send speculative applications by email.
For more information, advice, and support with part-time work opportunities,
email careersinfo@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/university-financial-support/hardship-fund:
The University of Essex recognises that some students are experiencing financial hardship at unprecedented levels.
This fund is established to provide discretionary financial assistance to undergraduate and postgraduate students, regardless of fee status.
You can apply for help from the fund at any time during the academic year within the opening and closing dates.
The fund is in place to support students who have had an unexpected, exceptional change in their financial circumstances that has resulted in short-term, financial difficulty that could not have been reasonably expected.
We will not consider an award for students applying for funding to support their course tuition fees.
The Hardship Fund is now closed for all standard-length courses.
For more details, please review the Hardship Fund terms and conditions below.
Hardship Fund terms and conditions 2024-25 October Starter
All funding applications must be submitted via Blackbullion , please see instructions below:
The University and other external organisations offer financial support to get you through your studies.
Check out other ways of funding your studies:
The University offers a range of additional welfare support and guidance .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/students/experience/mfc/colchester/default.aspx:
The calm, friendly and supportive atmosphere of our Colchester Campus Faith Centre is a welcoming place
for staff, students and the wider community to meet, interact and engage in a positive
and peaceful manner.
The Centre offers two spaces for worship, prayer and quiet reflection:
A variety of regular services, meetings and events organised by our chaplains and faith representatives chaplains and faith representatives chaplains and faith representatives are held in The Faith Centre Space 1.
The Faith Centre Space 2 is available for each of the five Islamic daily prayers.
In addition,
the Centre facilitates the Islamic Society in the larger gathering of Friday (Jummah)
prayers each week, by arranging a larger venue elsewhere on Colchester Campus.
The Students' Union also facilitates a number of religious student societies student societies student societies .
If there isn't a group representing your faith, you could get involved with setting one up.
For more
details please contact the Students' Union via socguild@essex.ac.uk .
The Faith Centre is located on Level 3 of the campus and is
fully accessible.
Find the Faith Centre location on Find Your Way map .
To book any of the facilities in the Faith Centre please contact us at faithcentreadmin@essex.ac.uk
Our Faith Centre hosts a number of events throughout the year,
bringing together students, staff and the wider community from all faiths and
backgrounds.
To find out more about our Faith Centre and upcoming events, follow us on Facebook .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/students/experience/mfc/southend/default.aspx:
The Faith Centre at our Southend Campus is a welcoming place for staff
and students to meet, interact and engage in a positive and peaceful manner.
We are here to help and support you.
You don’t have to be religious or want to pray to ask for support from us.
Find out where you can get support from our Faith Centre .
Please see the main University of Essex events page for details of all events including those linked to the Faith Centre.
We have a number of chaplains and faith representatives who offer their time to the Centre:
Your assistant chaplains, based on the second floor of the Gateway Building, are always happy to welcome you to the Faith Centre when we are on duty.
We are here to listen to you.
Whatever the subject, we can provide a safe space in which you can share your thoughts.
We can offer signposting to other helpful people around the campus, as well as spiritual signposts to external faith communities across Southend on Sea.
If study or life is getting to you why not drop into the Faith Centre where we can provide a homely, colourful space to chill and chat.
We will promise to always have something sweet to keep you going during your day!
Of course, we are here to pray with you and for you, and those you love, if you wish.
Please let us know what else we could offer that will help you spiritually, emotionally and mentally during term time, and also over the holiday if you are staying in Southend.
If we are not in please contact us through our email addresses, or via text 07859911997.
Looking for a local place of worship?
Our Chaplains are happy to signpost you, whatever your faith.
Just drop in, or email us.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/faith/faith-services-loughton:
Our Loughton Campus is located in a culturally diverse part of Essex.
All major faiths are represented in the local area and are within easy reach of the campus, either
in walking distance or by public transport.
If you need further assistance in finding a place of worship please email the Faith Centre .
As well local bus routes to Epping, you can travel on the
London Underground from Debden to Epping (Central Line), followed
by a 15 minute walk to the centre.
There are many churches in the Loughton area.
The Loughton Churches Together website is a great starting point to choose the right one for you.
St Johns Church is a 20 minute walk from the Loughton
Campus.
St Edmund of Canterbury is a 20 minute walk from
the Loughton Campus.
As well as local bus routes to Leytonstone, you can travel
on the London Underground from Debden to Leytonstone (Central
Line), followed by a 15-minute walk to the Mandir.
Loughton Synagogue is a 15 minute walk from the
Loughton Campus.
As well as local bus routes to South Woodford, you
can travel on the London Underground from Debden to
South Woodford (Central Line), followed by a two minute
walk to the Centre.
As well local bus routes to Bow, you can travel
on the London Underground from Debden to Mile End
(Central Line), followed by a seven minute walk to
the Gurdwara.
We do not currently have a dedicated chaplain presence at Loughton campus.
However you can arrange to speak by telephone to one of our chaplaincy team based at other campuses.
Please request this
through your Student Services Hub .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/mental-and-emotional-health:
Everyone has mental health – sometimes good, sometimes not so good.
If you're experiencing distressing thoughts and feelings there is help available at the University.
Wellbeing Wednesdays are sessions which provide staff and students an opportunity to take a break from their day and focus on their own wellbeing.
Help and support is available at the University if you are experiencing emotional distress or have a diagnosed mental health difficulty.
If you are concerned that a friend or flatmate may be experiencing some mental health difficulties, there are a number of ways you may be able to help them.
If you're experiencing mental health or emotional difficulties, counselling can provide a safe space for you to talk through and explore your feelings.
Support is available to you if you feel anxious, low or depressed.
University can be an exciting experience, but sometimes you may feel homesick, worried about money, pressures of study or that you're 'not fitting in'.
Feelings of homesickness are very common and usually subside as you begin to settle into your new life at university.
It's natural to feel nervous before an exam.
Find out what you can do to help calm your anxiety.
Find out what you can do to help reduce your anxiety whilst in an exam.
Find out what the causes are of stress and how you can recognise the symptoms.
Find out what you can do to manage the causes and symptoms of stress.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/mental-and-emotional-health/counselling:
Counselling provides a safe and confidential space for you to talk about your concerns.
A counsellor will not give you their opinions or advice, and they can’t prescribe medication.
However, they will help you to explore your thoughts, feelings and behaviours and to find your own solutions to help you cope with your problems.
Counselling at Essex is short-term, and can help you engage in your studies and in university life.
Our student counselling service is provided by Health Assured, our external partner organisation.
The University works closely with Health Assured to ensure that the service is delivered to a high standard and is meeting the needs of our students.
All counsellors work to recognised standards within the profession and are registered or accredited with professional bodies.
Counselling is open to registered students, including those who are intermitting from their studies on medical grounds.
If you are an incoming student who has not yet registered, please wait until you have completed registration to request counselling.
If you feel that counselling might be beneficial for you, you can complete a counselling form via My Essex.
If you'd like to talk about counselling or have any questions before deciding whether you'd like to complete a form, you can book a wellbeing appointment on Colchester campus or visit the Wellbeing Drop-In at Southend or Loughton.
Once you have submitted your counselling form, it will be reviewed by the Counselling Manager and a decision made as to whether counselling is deemed to be the best service for you at the time or whether you would benefit from a different service.
Sometimes, the Counselling Manager will ask to meet with students to understand more about what they have written on their counselling form.
This is to ensure that you receive the right level of support.
If it is believed that counselling is the appropriate service for you, your form will be sent securely to Health Assured and we will update you by email.
Health Assured will use the contact details and availability you have provided on your counselling form to get in touch with you as soon as possible.
A counsellor will speak with you, generally over the phone, to understand more about what you would like to get from counselling.
Sometimes, based on this conversation, they might suggest that you see your GP or receive other support prior to accessing counselling.
If you go on to receive counselling with Health Assured, you will be offered a date for your first session that falls within 15 working days of your initial conversation.
You can choose as to whether your sessions will be held on campus, online, or by telephone.
We offer a service that is tailored to individual student need.
At your initial conversation, you and your counsellor will discuss how many sessions are right for you.
Remember that counselling at the University is short-term.
If you need longer-term support, you can take a look at the local counselling options listed below under long-term counselling.
In-person sessions will be held on your campus at the following locations:
For audio and video sessions, you will need to make sure that you are in a private space and are unlikely to be interrupted.
Whether your sessions are in-person on campus, or via audio or video, please note that you will need to be alone for your sessions.
If you have babies or young children, please arrange childcare, or schedule your sessions for times when you do not have caring responsibilities.
While you're in counselling, you can still access other support.
Here is a list of services open to students:
To get the most from counselling, it is important that you commit to attending your sessions regularly and provide your counsellor with at least one working day's notice if you are unable to attend.
If you have an in-person session booked, and you are unable to attend, your counsellor may be able to transfer this to an online session at the same time.
Students who cancel without adequate notice more than once or do not attend without contacting their counsellor or Health Assured first, may have their sessions terminated for a period of time.
This is to ensure that other students can access the service in a timely manner.
You might find that once you complete your sessions, you continue to reflect on what you have learnt and introduce changes to your life.
After some time has passed, if you feel that you would like further sessions, feel free to complete another form.
The counselling service opens to second requests in the Spring term each year.
We would like our students to have a positive and meaningful experience so it is important for us to hear from you.
If you feel that counselling has been beneficial, or if you have suggestions to strengthen the service, please complete our SWIS Student Survey .
You will also have the chance to win a £5 SU Voucher.
If you'd like to email us directly to provide feedback or raise any concerns, you can contact the Counselling Manager on studentcounselling@essex.ac.uk
If you are thinking of long-term counselling, or would like to access specialist services, you might like to contact local, external organisations in Colchester, Southend or Loughton.
Here are some suggestions for you to explore.
It is important that you let them know that you are seeking support through their low fee services.
This list is for information only.
We cannot endorse specific services so it is important that you get as much information as you need before you choose where to access counselling.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/emergencies/out-of-hours-support:
If you would like support out of hours, take a look at the following services and resources:
Please note these are not mental health crisis services

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/authors/swis:
Student Services Hub, University of Essex
Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service
29 November 2022
25 February 2021
12 November 2020
10 November 2020
13 October 2020
28 September 2020

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/healthcare/diabetes-support:
It is important that you register with the GP on campus.
They can access your old notes and will be able to provide regular care and support to you whilst you are at University.
The GP and nurses on campus work closely with the Northeast Essex Diabetes (NEEDS) team and run a monthly joint clinic on campus.
The NEEDS team can help you access sensors, CGM, pumps and other devices.
If you wish to retain contact with your current diabetes service, we are also able to liaise between services.
As standard we aim to see all patients with diabetes every 6 months for a medical review and then once a year for a full examination including blood tests, foot check, blood pressure and weight.
This is all done at the surgery.
You will be called for eye checks in the local eye clinic once you are registered.
Once registered with the surgery, we use SMS to invite you to clinics/support groups and routine appointments, please consent to allow SMS when you register.
This is very useful app which allows you to book appointments, order repeat prescriptions, see results, view your medical records and communicate with the surgery.
Please download this onto your phones.
Once you are registered with the GP surgery on campus you will be able to get your prescriptions from us.
The GP surgery can issue prescriptions which are sent electronically to a pharmacy of your choice.
This includes any pharmacy in the UK so that when you are away from Colchester you can still have prescriptions sent to a pharmacy near you.
You can order prescriptions via email to our surgery on hcentre@essex.ac.uk or via the NHSAPP The local pharmacy will also delivery the medicine to the Students Union.
You then go to students’ union with your ID and can collect (and pay for if necessary) prescriptions directly.
Or you can find another pharmacy here: ‘Find out where to collect your prescription’
If you are on insulin, we would encourage you to request to have a small fridge in your on campus accommodation room.
Rather than storing insulin in communal kitchen fridges.
Please email include@essex.ac.uk with your request.
You will need to provide evidence that your medication needs to be stored in a refrigerator.
If your request is approved, the accommodation team will arrange for a fridge to be provided in your room.
If you require any adjustments to manage your diabetes during an exam, including if you have a sensor and use your mobile phone to monitor glucose levels, please contact Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service (SWIS) to discuss individual exam arrangements by emailing include@essex.ac.uk .
Please contact the surgery to get a letter to send to SWIS.
Managing insulin-dependent diabetes can be difficult to manage at university.
There are lots of things to think about.
It can sometimes feel isolating and stressful to have health matters to remember alongside everything else.
In collaboration with the university health centre , we provide a monthly diabetes support with a free lunch.
Some students feel hesitant to tell others about their diabetes.
We recommend, however, that you tell those with whom your regularly interact about your condition.
We recommend that you especially inform your flatmates as well as your personal tutor.
If you have questions about what and how to best tell others, please come to our support group meetings to discuss.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/healthcare:
Support and advice to help you to stay healthy.
Information and support for students with diabetes.
Don’t wait until you become ill to register with a doctor.
The health centre at Colchester Campus offers appointments for a range of NHS services.
You may be entitled to full or partial exemption (on the grounds of low income) from prescription costs, as well as dental and optical charges.
We recommend you find and register with a local dentist while you're at University.
Help keep you and your friends safe: get the facts and advice about drinking alcohol and taking drugs.
If you are physically or mentally unwell make sure you get support from the appropriate healthcare services.
If you believe you have contracted measles, mumps or rubella, please see our advice.
If you are experiencing any of the symptoms of meningitis get medical help immediately.
Pregnancy testing and support are available at your campus.
If you are pregnant, you are protected under the Equality Act 2010 and are encouraged to contact the accessibility team.
There are a number of financial options available to support you once you know that you are pregnant.
Information and support for those who have experienced the death of a baby during their pregnancy, or during or after birth.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/healthcare/registration-with-doctor:
If you are worried about your health you can call 111 for health advice (this service is free from any phone).
As a student studying on a course for more than six months, you're required to register with a local doctor
throughout your period of study if you live on campus or in the local surrounding area.
Register as soon as possible after you arrive, in case you should suddenly need medical treatment.
If you are not registered
you may be referred to the local Walk In Centre for treatment, as a doctor is not obliged
to see you (unless deemed a medical emergency).
NHS Choices postcode finder can help you find your nearest doctor and register with them.
Our Colchester Campus has its own health centre offering NHS services and is located behind Rayleigh Tower on the north side of campus.
The centre is operated by our NHS partners Rowhedge Surgery.
Available services include:
Specialist clinics with external consultants/specialists in:
Pre-bookable via our own reception, extended access appointments are also available at different surgeries in evenings until 8pm and weekends during the day.
Between hours of 6.30pm and 8am weekdays and at weekends urgent GP services are run by the Out Of Hours team which is accessed through ringing 111 or via the Urgent Treatment Centre.
You can order prescriptions:
The local pharmacy will also delivery the medicine to the Students Union.
Use the NHS Choices postcode finder to locate your nearest doctors' surgery.
If you don't live on campus and wish to register with a doctor/GP you can search for the nearest GP surgery in your
local area.
You must first contact the surgery you wish to register with to check if you live within the surgery area.
If
so, you will be asked to produce evidence of living at your address.
If accepted by the surgery you will need to
complete a registration form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/access-and-disability/dyslexia-and-spld:
If you have a diagnostic report or information from your school/college, i.e.
JCQ form8, access arrangements or EHCP please provide us with a copy via email: include@essex.ac.uk .
If you do not have this information, we can discuss a full assessment for dyslexia/dyspraxia once you are a registered student.
If you think you may have a SpLD such as Dyslexia or Dyspraxia, or if you have been referred by your tutor, please contact us to discuss.
We can explain the assessment process and answer any questions you may have.
If after discussion we feel you would benefit from a formal assessment, we can arrange this for you on campus.
We will ask you to complete a questionnaire to give the assessor more information about the areas where you struggle.
See assessment cost below.
Once you have completed and returned the questionnaire there is usually a short wait for an assessment (depending on availability this can be up to two months).
We will contact you when we have an available assessment appointment.
The assessment can be in person or remote and usually takes between two-three hours.
You will be required to pay £45 towards the assessment.
The University will meet the additional cost of over £300 (payment is not required for apprenticeship students).
The assessor will write a report with the findings.
We will offer you a meeting to discuss the conclusions and any support that has been recommended.
If you want an assessment outside the University, you will be responsible for the cost (usually £300 - £400).
We advise you to select an
educational psychologist or specialist teacher who is used to testing adults.
For further information on assessors contact the British Psychological Society or the British Dyslexia Association .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/food-and-drink/food-and-drink-at-colchester-campus:
You'll never run out of choice for food and drink on campus - we have something for everyone.
From Saturday 7 June and throughout summer, dependant on summer schools etc.
Let Essex Food take care of your meals so you can focus on enjoying student life.
Students living on our Colchester campus will soon be able to save up to 30% on their weekly food purchase with Accommodation Catered Meal Packages .
Packages will be available annually or as a single-term package.
The Essex Food Rewards Upay app gives you access to exclusive rewards, discounts and money off selected items.
Just scan your app at the till to redeem.
Rewards include:
All Halal products are prepared and cooked separately from non-Halal items.
If you have any dietary concerns or are unsure about your order, please ask a staff member for assistance and consult the menu.
Menus may change termly and with the seasons.
With the Essex Food Upay app you can earn rewards while you eat and drink.
Scan the Upay app every time you buy a hot drink or selected meal deal from our Essex Food outlets - buy 5 and the 6th is FREE!
(Full terms and conditions apply)
Download the Upay app and start earning today Download the Upay app and start earning today Download the Upay app and start earning today !
Plus, bring your reusable cup and SAVE 25p on any hot drink in our outlets.
Find information about all the Essex Food cafés, restaurants and bars cafés, restaurants and bars cafés, restaurants and bars - t here's something on the menu for everyone.
Bonds serves a variety of options for both breakfast and lunch
Buffalo Joe's is open until late
Head to Canteen for a hearty breakfast or a filling lunch.
Find freshly cooked classics
Crumbs is the new Essex Food outlet serving a range of cookies and Union Coffee.
FUNc.
is a dedicated social space for staff and students to study
Fusion East offers an Asian inspired menu featuring Donburi bowls of katsu curry
Lakeside Theatre Café is a great place to pick up a coffee and pastry en route to campus.
This stylish cafe situated in the Lakeside Theatre foyer
Stem and Root is a dedicated social space for staff and students to study
Our Street Food Huts are serving up fresh food
The SU's newest social space and serving Starbucks coffee.
Essex Food do not accept cash payments in outlets.
Please pay by card or contactless payment method.
Alternatively, download the Essex Food Rewards app to pay and collect rewards.
Choose loyalty and cashless payment when you set up your account.
Ethics Food, we care…
...about your health and wellbeing
“Essex Food are committed to supporting your health and wellbeing.
We will ensure that all our menus include healthy choices and specialist dietary requirements.
We will prioritise the use of fresh, seasonal and nutritional produce, which will be prepared daily by our team of chefs.”
… about your education
“Essex Food are committed to providing you with the knowledge to make informed choices.
We will provide important dietary details on all menus and packaging labels, giving you essential nutritional and food provenance information.”
…about your planet
“Essex Food are committed to helping protect the planet to ensure a sustainable future.
We are working to eradicate the use of plastic, the reduction of food waste and food miles, with the use of local suppliers and efficient use of resources.
“
…about your opinion
“Essex Food are committed to understanding their customers.
We value feedback and will seek to engage with you through regular focus groups, customer surveys, and individual interactions.
Our staff are always available to receive your opinion and discuss your ideas.
We were proud to have been awarded with the prestigious Hospitality Assured accreditation in 2011, which is the quality standard created by the Institute of Hospitality specifically for customer facing businesses.
We regularly assess our policies to ensure the highest food and service standards to University of Essex customers.
The University’s Essex Food team Essex Food team Essex Food team Essex Food team and the Students’ Union operate our busy restaurants, bars, cafes and food outlets across our three campuses.
Although separate organisations, Essex Food and the Students' Union share the same goal to provide you with a wide range of high quality food within their outlets.
Keep It On Campus is an initiative designed to encourage students and staff to use the services available on campus.
Whenever you see the Keep It On Campus stamp, you are about to buy a product or use a service which is owned by the University.
This means every time you use a product or service which has the KIOC stamp, all profits generated are used to support and reinvest in the University.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/academic-skills/workshops:
Skills for Success continue to support you in your studies.
We deliver online workshops helping you to improve a variety of academic skills.
Our workshops are open to all students.
Visit CareerHub for the full list of workshops and to book on to the sessions.
If you are interested in a specific type of workshop then you can search for keywords such as ‘essay’ 'Excel' or ‘referencing’, or filter the type of event to Academic Skills Workshop .
Knowing how to write at university and what is expected of you can feel confusing.
This session will help you with both practical ways of improving your writing and help you think about the principles and questions that underpin the idea of academic style.
This workshop looks at how you can engage with difficult academic texts and use them in your own writing.
As well as discussing the practicalities of how you paraphrase, summarise and quote from sources, we will also think about how to engage critically with texts, and how reading relates to writing.
Writing university essays can be challenging.
In this workshop, we will look at how to generate and organise ideas, how different types of assignment question can suggest different structures, and how to translate that into your academic writing.
Research papers can seem intimidating - daunting both to read and to write.
But information in a lot of research articles is actually organised in a fairly standard way.
This workshop will explain the main components of the ‘Science Paper Format’ (SPF) used in the sciences and for quantitative-based research in the social sciences.
By understanding these key elements, you will see that SPF writing allows researchers to communicate their study findings effectively and allows readers to locate the information they want.
It will help you read academic articles quickly and efficiently and show you how to structure a well-organised research report yourself.
Do you struggle with procrastination, or find it difficult to get down to writing your assignments?
This workshop is facilitated by an experienced tutor and is for students who want a distraction-free space to focus on writing.
Using a variation of the Pomodoro Technique, you will be given blocks of time in a peaceful environment, where you will be asked to switch off mobile phones and wifi/internet access and encouraged to get down to work.
In the regular breaks, you can ask the workshop facilitator any writing-related questions you may have, whether they're about grammar, structure, whether something makes sense, or overcoming writer's block.
And tea and coffee will be provided, along with some snacks to keep your energy up.
All students need to bring their own laptop or device to write with, and other than that, there is nothing you need to do, except exactly what the title says - shut up and write.
One of the most common complaints from lecturers is that their students have not answered the question – and if you want to avoid making that mistake, the key first step is to understand what the question is asking you to do.
In this session we will look at analysing and unpacking assignment instructions so that you can see what is expected from you with different types of question and make sure you are approaching your writing in the right way.
Improve the quality of your assignments by learning where to search for suitable resources.
Find out more about different types of resource (reference, primary and secondary sources, library databases, open access) and where to look for them.
How to reference properly is something that causes students a lot of stress – but it doesn’t need to be difficult.
This interactive session will introduce you to referencing and why it is important when writing your assignments.
You will also learn what to reference, how to construct your references, and where to go for help and support.
Do you find it challenging to find enough information for your assignments?
Perhaps you find it difficult to find relevant information amongst the huge number of search returns.
This session will equip you with the tips and techniques you need to make your reaches relevant and manageable.
Improve the quality of your assignments by learning what kind of resources are appropriate to use in your work, and how to evaluate the usefulness of potential sources, including open access material.
This session is intended to encourage thought and discussion about the dissertation research proposal.
We will focus on a range of factors to be considered, from practicalities to potential problems, attempting to begin with your own stage of progress and your understanding of research proposal requirements.
Provides hints and tips on how to manage your studies without over-stressing.
This is a very practical workshop, delivered by someone who knows just how difficult it is to fit everything in and meet deadlines.
Come along and learn how to do it – and relax and enjoy!
Are you a student who is returning to study after a long break or perhaps entering the academic world for the first time?
This workshop will encourage you to think about what it means to be a student and how to get the most out of academic study.
It will help you to thrive in an academic environment and signpost where you can get additional support to help you along the way.
To get the best from your lectures, it is not enough to turn-up and listen - you also need to prepare, take effective notes and have a review and revision strategy in place that works for you.
This session will present some well-tested strategies for lecture research, note-taking and review.
The workshop will be task-based; you need to come (with a note pad and pen!) prepared to try out different approaches to find out what suits your learning style best.
We’ll be looking at ways to work with a lecture study partner too – so persuade a classmate along, if you can.
In this workshop we will discuss why and how we make notes from our reading.
We will consider the benefits of making notes, such as avoiding plagiarism, saving time and helping our understanding of text.
We will go on to consider the merits of a variety of note-making techniques.
Reading at university is not just about understanding what a text says.
In this session, we will look at how to critically engage with your reading, and how to develop the skills that will help you get the most out of your studies – and the best marks.
Critical thinking is at the heart of every academic discipline, and whilst it can sound like a daunting term, it is something that you are already familiar with from your everyday life.
In this session we will look at how to make sure you are approaching your studies critically, and how you can develop your existing skills and practices.
Do you want to be able to communicate more effectively when you give oral presentations?
Would you like some practical advice about how to make the experience of speaking to an audience less stressful?
This workshop will offer useful tips which can boost your confidence and clarity when you speak in public.
Improve your skills on Excel by learning more about conditional formatting, pivot tables, functions and shortcuts.
These workshops will ensure your spreadsheets are more efficient and productive.
Discover how to use Word's built-in features that work to automatically format your document for you.
This is especially useful when dealing with long, complex documents, and working to tight deadlines.
Topics covered include: styles; automatic table of contents; multi-level lists; page breaks vs section breaks; headers and footers; arranging tabular data; and working with images.
Find out how to use the automatic features in Outlook to help organise your workload and save precious time.
EndNote is the University’s free, recommended and supported reference management tool.
EndNote will save you valuable time by removing the manual labour associated with creating and formatting references.
You can now access the fully-featured desktop software and manage your EndNote library from multiple computers including your personal device.
If you would like to request a specific workshop, please complete the request a workshop form (.docx).

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/academic-skills/ug-writing:
For almost all courses at Essex you'll need to write essays.
Writing is an
essential skill for success in higher education.
Many lecturers believe that
essay-writing is the most crucial academic skill but the one that students find
hardest to master.
You can improve your written assignments by knowing:
A range of bookable workshops  are also available and can be booked through CareerHub .
Workshops that target your writing skills include Writing Well: Academic Style, Structuring an Essay, Shut Up and Write and more.
This booklet is a guide to some of the most common
mistakes in academic writing.
A solid technical command of language will help
you to think more clearly and express your thoughts more effectively.
Correct referencing is essential in your assignments at Essex.
We provide referencing guides for the main styles used by departments at our University.
You should also make sure you understand our University's policy and advice on plagiarism .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/academic-skills/pg-writing:
Writing is an integral part of almost all postgraduate courses at Essex.
Skills for Success are here to support you in every step of the writing process, from research to final submission.
A range of bookable workshops are also available and can be booked through CareerHub.
Workshops that target your writing skills include Structure of Research Papers in Sciences and Social Sciences, Developing a Research Proposal and more.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/academic-skills/research-skills:
Research allows you to discover new ideas and expand your understanding of
different subject areas.
It's about asking questions and finding answers, and it
will form an essential part of your education, especially as you advance through
university.
A range of bookable workshops are also available and can be booked through CareerHub .
Workshops that target your research skills include Finding Resources, Evaluating Resources and more.
This booklet is a guide to some of the most important aspects of research projects.
Whether the project is as small as a research paper or as big as your final dissertation, the techniques covered will give you the background you need.
Whether you're starting out on your first assignment or conducting advanced research, Search skills Guide will help you to find good quality information for you to use in your assignments and research and will make your searches much more focused and efficient.
For more information, see our referencing guides which outline the
main styles used by departments at our University.
The Essex Student Journal is an online academic journal run by and for Essex students.
The journal helps students develop their writing, feedback, and research skills by introducing them to the publishing world in a supportive environment.
The Essex Student Journal is a multi-disciplinary journal dedicated to the publication of high-quality undergraduate- and Masters-level writing, with a commitment to creating accessible and engaging content for a non-specialist readership.
Find more information about the Journal , including how to submit as an author and sign-up as a peer reviewer.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/academic-skills/exam-revision:
Exams can be nerve-wracking, especially in your first year when you're not sure what to expect.
Preparation and practice are key to doing well and not getting too anxious.
A range of bookable workshops and drop-in events are also available and can be booked through CareerHub.
Workshops that target your revision skills include Shut Up and Revise, Doing your Exam and more.
Use our guides to plan your revision schedule and check you've done everything you need to before your exams.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/academic-skills:
Skills for Success support you with everything you need to do well in your studies that is not directly related to your subject.
There is also a range of online materials and resources to help you, no matter what level you are at, or what department you study in.
A range of workshops run throughout the year to help you develop your academic skills.
Book a session with one of our tutors for help with any aspect of your studies.
A bank of study skills resources on Moodle designed to enhance your academic and personal development throughout your studies.
Resources and support to help you improve your writing skills including note taking and essay writing.
Find out about writing skills at postgraduate level.
Develop your understanding of academic integrity, authorship and plagiarism.
Learn how to reference correctly.
An introduction to the key skills required to develop a grounded academic argument.
Understanding the different requirements of a lab report for the biosciences.
The steps you need to take to produce a well-thought-out and well-focused piece of academic writing.
Guidance about good practice in relation to third-party proofreading of student work.
Find out about the different types of referencing styles and systems.
Support and guidance to help you with your research.
Find out about the maths, stats, numeracy and problem-solving skills support you can access.
Find out about the numeracy assessment and modules for students in certain academic departments.
Find out about developing your digital skills and the resources you can access.
What it means to think critically and some practical ways that this can be achieved.
An introduction to some core ideas and aspects of creating good quality presentations.
Being an independent learner means being an active learner, taking responsibility for your workload, commitments and deadlines.
Exploring different situations where oracy skills are used and the specific speaking and listening skills needed in each case.
Some practical techniques that are useful for study as well as in everyday situations.
Find out about the support you can access to help you with your exam revision.
Academic English classes to support you if English is not your first language.
The Department of Language and Linguistics offers dependants of international students and staff free English classes.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/access-and-disability/impairment:
We recognise that students with physical, mobility, visual or hearing impairment may have very different needs and we strongly encourage you to contact us at include@essex.ac.uk to discuss your needs.
It is never too early in your university journey to contact us for advice and starting to prepare.
We will work with you to establish the support you require.
This may include:
In addition to the academic and learning support available, you may wish to review the following information:
The Colchester Campus is largely accessible for most people with a mobility impairment.
The teaching buildings are interconnected and as a result, there are multiple
lifts to all floors.
The campus is built on the side of the hill so there are some slopes.
The car parks are a little distance away from most of the main buildings.
There is a large amount of residential accommodation on site.
There is detailed information on physical access including access guides, information on parking and a step-free map of
Colchester Campus.
The Loughton Campus consists of a number of different sites and buildings with variable and sometimes limited access.
There is parking at Hatfields House.
Your Student Services Hub can advise you on accommodation in the local area.
The Southend Campus has accessible purpose-built teaching facilities at the Gateway Building
and learning space at The Forum.
The ground floor of the Clifftown studios is accessible although
first-floor studios have no lift for access.
Accommodation and public parking are a short distance from the buildings.
In addition to the academic and learning support, we can also provide::
The campuses are physically accessible and we can liaise with external agencies to provide specialist orientation training.
If you might have difficulties evacuating your accommodation or the teaching buildings in an emergency, we recommend you contact and meet with the Fire Safety Officer to agree a Personal Emergency Evacuation Plan (PEEP).

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/access-and-disability/exam-and-coursework-support:
If you have a disability, temporary medical condition, or injury that will adversely affect your performance in examinations, please contact Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service (SWIS) Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service (SWIS) Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service (SWIS) for individual exam arrangements.
Arrangements vary depending on your requirements and supporting evidence but can include things like extra time for writing or rest breaks, advising the marker of your specific learning difficulties or autistic spectrum condition, using a computer, having someone to write/read for you and having exam papers in suitable format (eg braille, large print).
If individual exam arrangements are recommended to meet your disability related needs and there is any delay in when these will be in place for you, a named Adviser in SWIS will provide further advice and guidance to you.
This might be, for example, if your exam arrangements are agreed close to an examination or main examination period.
Individual exam arrangements are brought forward automatically each year unless you have a change of registration number.
If you start a new course or progress from undergraduate to postgraduate study please contact SWIS please contact SWIS please contact SWIS so we can ensure your exam arrangements are brought forward
Methods of assessment vary, although most courses are assessed on written
course work such as essays, as well as examinations.
Some subjects also require
practical, fieldwork or study abroad.
If you wish to discuss access to
assessment, please contact us .
If you have registered your Specific Learning Difference, e.g.
dyslexia or another neurodiverse condition or autistic spectrum condition (ASC), and provided evidence and consent to share this information to the Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service (SWIS), your marker will be automatically alerted (through FASER) to guidance on the difficulties you may experience with written work.
You do not need to take any further action.
If, for any reason, you prefer your marker not to be alerted to the guidance then you can ‘untick’ the pre-populated box on FASER.
The alert provides guidance to the marker about the type of difficulties you may experience in your written expression so that you are not penalised on simple issues with style.
Markers may continue to provide feedback on structure, spelling and grammar so that you are aware of these and can give consideration to study skills strategies that may help address these.
You will not receive extra marks as a result of this guidance and where learning outcomes are being assessed you will still be required to demonstrate you have met these.
If you have any problems with the system or any queries about support for your studies, please contact us .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/academic-skills/academic-english:
We run a programme of in-sessional Academic English Support classes (AES classes) to support students with English as an additional language.
The programme is free of charge and aims to help you to achieve higher marks through the best use of your English language skills.
AES classes are voluntary and run as non-credit modules alongside your compulsory modules.
Over the autumn term we offer a range of free English language workshops and classes.
These include modules on Reading, Writing, Speaking and Grammar.
We also offer a programme of workshops which include sessions on vocabulary development, academic writing and conversational vocabulary.
All our workshops are bookable via Careerhub .
If you would like to register for our Academic English Support modules (either in Colchester or Southend) please do so through eNROL .
For more information on the modules we are running either visit the Module Directory or email skills@essex.ac.uk .
If you experience difficulty enrolling yourself on the module please do email skills@essex.ac.uk with information about which modules you would like to be enrolled onto.
We offer a programme of workshops on a range of academic skills such as referencing, reading, using sources, and structuring an essay.
These can be booked through CareerHub .
We offer one-to-one academic skills appointments to help with any aspect of your studies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/academic-skills/english-support:
The Department of Language and Linguistics offers the wider University of Essex community the chance to improve their English language skills through our General English Classes .
These classes are available to:
The classes, which take place at the Colchester Campus, will enable you to meet people from other countries and cultures and will help you develop your language skills.
These classes are free and are taught at three basic levels: Beginner (A1/A2), Intermediate (B1/B2) and Advanced (C1/C2) and will focus on listening, speaking, reading and writing.
Throughout the year, you will have a unique opportunity to develop your conversation skills, by reflecting on real-life examples of how language is used in context.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/immigration-and-visas/working-in-the-uk-during-your-studies:
Whether you can work during your studies depends on what type of immigration permission you have.
Your immigration documents, entry clearance/BRP or digital status, will state what work conditions apply to you.
If you are a European national with settled or pre-settled status in the UK, you can work freely.
Please read the UKCISA guidance for more information.
If you have Student immigration permission the information below will apply to you.
After reading all the guidance from us and UKCISA, if you are unsure what conditions you have been given or do not understand the wording on your entry clearance sticker/BRP, please call UKCISA’s Student Advice line for advice.
Those with student immigration permission to study with us will usually be given a condition that allows you to work whilst you are in the UK studying.
You can work in line with the work condition stated on your entry clearance vignette, Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) or digital status, provided you have not stopped studying before completing your course.
If the passport your visa is in has expired and you do not have a BRP, you will have to apply to transfer your visa to a Biometric Residence Permit if you want to work.
The hours you can work and type of work you can do are restricted and breaching your conditions is a criminal offence.
We highly recommend you read the UKCISA information for more information about the types of work you can or can’t do before you seek employment.
You should not need to rely on income from working to pay your living expenses or tuition fees as the Student Immigration Rules require you to have adequate funds to live and study in the UK.
If you withdraw, intermit or take a leave of absence from your course, your permission to work will expire on the new date that your leave will expire following curtailment.
Curtailment can be with immediate effect or take effect 60 days from the date you are notified that your leave was curtailed.
The type of work you can do for the whole duration of your Student immigration permission is restricted, including as a work placement (unless it is specifically allowed for within the Student Immigration Rules and guidance).
The Home Office Student route guidance states “Where you are permitted to work, the intention is that this should be to supplement your income whilst studying (in most cases we expect this to be taking a part-time role for an established business/organisation (for example, a customer service role at a retailer) or as part of a work placement provided it is an integral and assessed part of your course)."
You must not do the following types of work:
Before you start work, please read the UKCISA information for more information on the types of work you can or can’t do and call their student advice line if you need to.
You might want to be a volunteer during your time in the UK.
There is a difference between unpaid employment (voluntary work) and volunteering, and you should always check with the organisation that offers you a volunteering opportunity whether it can be regarded as unpaid employment.
This is because time you spend doing unpaid employment counts towards your maximum number of hours of work a week.
The Government has produced information about the difference between voluntary work and volunteering with some useful examples.
Read the UKCISA guidance for more information.
Essex students with Student Immigration permission  should have a condition allowing the following hours of work per week in term time:
You must only work the hours stated on your immigration documents.
You cannot exceed the hours in any individual week.
A ‘week’ is defined in the Immigration Rules as 7 days starting on a Monday.
In your vacations you can work longer hours but must check what term time means for you and when you have official vacations.
If you work more hours than you should, you will be in breach of your immigration conditions which is a criminal offence .
If you are an elected SU Sabbatical Officer, you can work up to the restricted hours stated on your immigration permission in other employment.
This is in addition to the full-time Sabbatical Officer post.
If you are on an integral and assessed work placement as part of your course you can work full time in the work placement.
In addition, you can do other allowed part-time work within the weekly limit stated on your visa.
If your student immigration permission shows a different number of hours per week than stated above or states "no work" this could be an error.
Please contact our International Services team and we will check it for you and advise you how to have it amended by the Home Office if it is incorrect.
Work is a valuable experience, but your studies come first so, even if you are allowed to work 20 hours a week the University recommends you do less than this.
The term times and vacations published on the university website apply to standard undergraduate courses only.
If you want to work more hours in your vacations, you must check the exact term dates that apply to your course.
Your employer will require written confirmation of your term and vacation dates, which you will need to request from the Student Information Team .
As a guide only:
Your term and vacation dates will vary depending on the course you are studying.
After the course end date on your CAS, you can work full-time until your visa expires provided you have finished all elements of your course and have no further study.
However, the type of work you can do is still restricted as per the Student Immigration Rules until your visa expiry date and you must make sure you do not take a job that means you would be in breach of your work conditions.
For instance, you cannot work in a full-time permanent position.
When you have found a job, you will be able to request confirmation of your term and vacation dates, read the section below about requesting confirmation of dates.
You may be able to undertake a work placement that is an assessed and integral part of your course.
The University must check the work placement meets the requirements of the Student Immigration Rules  and report the work placement to the Home Office.
For Essex degree level students, it must not form more than 50% of your course duration (as stated on your CAS), unless exceptions apply within the Student Immigration Rules and guidance.
Work placements can be paid or unpaid.
In addition to an integral and assessed work placement you can also take other allowed types of employment up to the weekly hourly limit stated on your student immigration permission.
The working restrictions regarding the type of work you are allowed to do also apply to a work placement unless there is a specific exception in the Student Immigration Rules and guidance.
If you undertake a work placement alongside your study that is not integral, assessed and agreed by the University, you must count the hours within your weekly limit.
Read the UKCISA guidance for more information about work placements.
If you undertake any work that is not allowed or work more hours than you should, you will be considered to be in breach of your immigration conditions.
This is a criminal offence and can have very serious consequences for you and for the University’s Student Sponsor licence.
If you are concerned that you may have broken your conditions please seek urgent advice from SU Advice , an independent, confidential Students' Union service.
If you have finished all elements of your course, you will be able to work full time hours after the course end date on your CAS, until your student immigration permission expires.
However, the type of work you can do is still restricted under the Student Immigration Rules until the date your student immigration permission expires, you must make sure you do not take a job that means you would be in breach of your work conditions as this is a criminal offence.
PhD students can work full-time, after you have been awarded your PhD and uploaded your final thesis to our Research Repository.
If the duration of your course increases, you must continue to work part-time hours.
Your CAS will show your course end date, this is the date we are sponsoring you to study full-time until, we will not consider you to have finished your course before this date unless you have been awarded the qualification early and we are able to report this to the Home Office in line with the Student Sponsor guidance.
If you have applied for permission to stay in the UK under the Graduate route , your Student immigration work conditions apply until you have been granted Graduate route permission to stay.
For more information about the Graduate and other work routes, read the UKCISA guidance on working after studies and contact their student advice line or your employer if you have any questions, our advisers are not able to offer advice about work immigration routes.
We highly recommend you read the UKCISA information more information about the types of work you can or can’t do with a student immigration permission, before you take a job.
If you have student immigration permission your employer will require details of your term and vacation dates from the University.
Dates that apply will depend on your course and the standard dates published on the University website may not apply to you.
The request must come from you, not your employer.
If you require confirmation of your term dates for your employer, please use your Certificate of Registration from Gradintel which includes a link to the course specific term dates for the current academic year.
If you require confirmation of your term dates for your work placement as authorised by the University’s Work Based Learning Team, please email askthehub@essex.ac.uk with your PRID and confirming the start and end dates for your placement year, the request must come from the student.
When we receive your request, we will carry out various checks before we can confirm the term and vacation dates for your course in writing.
You must be a fully registered Essex student who is studying inside the UK with valid student immigration permission and must have completed your in person right to study check on campus.
Once our checks are completed, we will send an email to your @essex.ac.uk address, confirming your term and vacation dates that you can forward to your employer.
It usually takes up to 5 working days for this to be produced but can take longer at busy times of year.
We will not confirm your term or vacation dates in any other format as this is not a Home Office requirement.
Your employer should refer to the Home Office's publication for employers, An employer's guide to right to work checks and Home Office caseworker guidance, Student and Child Student .
If your employer has any questions about your work conditions, they will need to contact the Home Office, we will not be able to advise them.
If you will be working for the University and have any questions about the right to work documents, please email People and Culture at resourcing@essex.ac.uk .
Information about Income Tax and National Insurance is available from HM Revenue and Customs .
We can’t answer questions about National Insurance and Income Tax, you’ll need to refer to the HMRC website to find out who you can contact.
Our Student Services Hub can help you find work and provide information about employment rights.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/sanctuary:
Essex is committed to making the University a welcoming and safe place for refugees and asylum seekers.
We are an official University of Sanctuary , after being awarded the status in December 2020.
This recognises our commitment to promoting a culture of welcome, safety and inclusion across our campuses and their wider communities.
Universities of Sanctuary are part of the UK's City of Sanctuary initiative to ensure our nation is a welcoming place of safety for all.
We have shown our commitment to refugees by establishing our University of Sanctuary Scholarships.
The Scholarships are available to new Postgraduate Taught Masters students taking up a place to study at Essex, who have UK Asylum status or Discretionary/Limited Leave to Remain as a result of an asylum application, and those with Humanitarian Protection, as result of an asylum application or through a dependants claim.
Applications are now open those interested in taking up a place to study in 2024-2025.
For the staff at Refugee, Asylum Seeker and Migrant Action (RAMA) each day is spent providing practical support to clients, such as help with immigration applications, housing and benefits, job and education applications.
Maria Wilby, case worker for RAMA, said: " The University has become a resource that we regularly turn to for support for our clients.
Many lecturers and students have gone out of their way to assist clients and support us in applications for funding, giving us chances to spread information, and in placing students on placements with us.
Law Centre students gave more than 60 hours of support in case work in early 2020."
The remarkable commitment of University of Essex students to volunteering, including working with refugees, has earned the Students' Union's VTeam volunteering programme the King's Award for Voluntary Service 2023.
Ewa Haladus from Essex Integration which has worked with the VTeam on the Refugee Teaching Programme for the past six year, says student volunteers make a huge difference: “The students, both UK and international, help our clients integrate by teaching them English, offering four sessions a week, online and in person.
Within the sessions, students sit next to learners and help with writing, reading, pronunciation, and practising speaking and listening skills.
The students throw themselves into everything - from washing up after coffee breaks, to teaching 1:1 Literacy to our Afghan ladies who are illiterate.
“They don’t just offer tuition, they offer friendship and their own personal lived experience of adapting to a new culture.
The international students that run our tuition sessions are able to empathise with our service users from the point of view of learning English as a second language, the cultural adjustment of moving to a new country, and even an understanding of what it’s like to go through immigration processes.”
Dr Neophytos Mitsigkas from our Department of Language and Linguistics and his language teaching students provide free English classes as part of a programme supporting dependants of international students and staff, as well as students at the University from Refugee Action Colchester (RAC).
Classes run in autumn and spring terms, four times a week, every week, for two hours.
Sessions help participants learn a language at a level that suits them: beginner, intermediate, or advanced, plus there are sessions to help with academic writing.
Dr Mitsigkas also attends weekly RAC meetings to inform the group about the many ways the University can help, as well as encouraging them to attend his English language classes.
He said: "Thanks to the frequency of the lessons, there is plenty of exposure, and it's a good opportunity for further practice and development, but importantly, it gives the chance to refugees to feel socially included, where they meet with other people, and share experiences and information."
Essex Law Clinic benefits the local community by offering free initial advice about legal problems while giving our students the chance to work alongside practising lawyers to advise real clients.
Work with refugees, asylum seekers and destitute migrants is taking place in collaboration with Refugee, Asylum Seeker and Migrant Action (RAMA) and the Red Cross.
Students are working to re-establish the Essex Student Action for Refugees (Essex STAR) group.
Previously the group was incredibly successful in focussing on educating and volunteering to promote the welfare of refugees, and students host discussions, campaigns and awareness-raising events, including to help asylum seekers and refugees see the opportunities to study at Essex.
PHAP, the International Association of Professionals in Humanitarian Assistance and Protection, hosted a webinar on 10 December 2020 with more than 600 people attending.
Geoff Gilbert, Professor of International Human Rights & Humanitarian Law, Essex Law School and Human Rights Centre at the University of Essex, and Chair of the Global Academic Interdisciplinary Network of the Global Compact on Refugees was one of the event's keynote speakers.
The event discussed ethical challenges faced in researching situations of forced migration, and how these relate to the application in practice of the principle of “do no harm” and the IASFM Code of Ethics.
Alongside Geoff's participation, the event included contributions from researchers, a refugee post-graduate student, as well as a camp manager, who shared their experiences and views.
A recording of the event is now online.
Our researchers are highlighting the challenges faced by asylum seekers and refugees through their academic work, and they are involved in activities and initiatives in many different areas.
Read our research case study about how we're helping to improve the lives of refugees around the world.
The longstanding work of Professor Renos Papadopoulos, Director of the Centre for Trauma, Asylum, and Refugees, has placed refugee care at the heart of Essex.
Professor
The Centre for Migration Studies, provides a home for cross-disciplinary dialogue on migration studies, and is leading on research and initiatives to improve the lives of refugees.
The centre is led by Director Dr Renee Luthra, an expert in international migration, and Deputy Director Dr Carlos Gigoux Gramegna, who is working on a project that examines the role of social organisations in the social integration of refugees.
Senior Lecturer
Lecturer
Professor Geoff Gilbert specialises in international refugee, humanitarian and human rights law, and is a member off Essex’s Human Rights Centre, which is pioneering the theory and practice of human rights from the local to the global
Dr Chris Nicholson has been working with the charity Refugee, Asylum Seeker and Migrant Action (RAMA), along with Dr Zibiah Loakthar and MA Refugee Care students on placement there.
They set up the Essex Refugee Mental Health Enabling Network, and won a bid through The Refugee Council from The Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF) that will support mental health and wellbeing provision for local refugees and unaccompanied children.
It also enables the charity to employ the clinical staff they need.
Chris’s contribution gains £25,000 to support the charity in becoming a Therapeutic Community.
Lecturer MA/PhD Refugee Care
Research by Dr Paul Hanel, from our Department of Psychology, Malina Beier, and Professor Uwe Wolfradt has formed the basis of a manuscript currently under review.
The work, titled: The Role of Own and Perceived Human Values in the Acculturation of Refugees focuses on the importance of understanding how, as increasing numbers of people are displaced from their homes, they integrate into new, temporary homes.
As part of the research, Dr Hanel and colleagues tested the role of human values in acculturation (assimilation to a different culture) strategies, in a sample of 215 refugees from Arabic speaking countries living in Germany.
Contrary to predictions, perceptions of Germans’ values were mainly unrelated with acculturation.
The full manuscript is anticipated to be published in a scientific peer-review journal by mid-2021.
Dr Daniela Pianezzi’s work examines how non-governmental actors are responding to the ongoing ‘refugee crisis’.
In a recent project (July, 2019) she examined the challenges and opportunities faced by Refugee Action Colchester, in developing systems and processes aimed at improving the lives and prospects of asylum seekers and refugees.
As part of the project, Dr Pianezzi prepared a three-year business plan for the charity in collaboration with EBS colleague Professor Shahzad Uddin.
Our teaching addresses issues relating to migration and sanctuary seekers at all levels, in both courses and modules.
The University of Essex is committed to inclusivity and prides itself on offering a transformative education to people from a diverse range of different backgrounds and countries.
We want as many applicants
as possible to have the opportunity to study with us and recognise that many forced migrants may not have access to qualification documentation to evidence their previous academic or English language qualifications.
If you are in this position and you do not have access to some or all of your qualification documents, please contact the relevant Admissions Office to discuss how we can support you to make an application to the University of Essex.
Postgraduate Admissions Office: pgadmit@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate Admissions Office: admit@essex.ac.uk
Students with UK refugee status, or dependants of UK refugees, may be eligible for a refugee bursary of up to £1,500 if studying full time, or up to £750 if studying part time.
We are offering the University of Sanctuary Scholarship to new Postgraduate Taught (PGT) Masters students taking up a place to study in 2024-25, who have UK Asylum status or Discretionary/Limited Leave to Remain as a result of an asylum application, and those with Humanitarian Protection, as result of an asylum application or through a dependants claim.
The University’s student wellbeing and inclusivity service provides a professional and proactive guidance service,  within a healthy and inclusive environment, to help our students to fulfil their potential.
The team's accessibility and wellbeing manager , is a dedicated member of staff and the main point of contact for sanctuary students.
If you would like to get in touch and find out more about our financial and wellbeing support for refugee students please email: inclusion@essex.ac.uk
"I left Syria in 2015 when the war started.
Initially I started a Media and PR degree in Jordan, but my studies were interrupted by events there, so I had to leave.
I worked for the UN with children for two years, and this is when I heard about the resettlement scheme, and successful applied for a five-year visa with refugee status to the UK.
"When I arrived in Colchester I first worked with Refugee Action Colchester (RAC) now Refugee and Asylum Seeker and Migrant Action (RAMA), as a volunteer caseworker and interpreter, as I have good English.
There, I met Maria Wilby (from RAMA) and Dr Carlos Gigoux Gramegna from the University, who both encouraged me to apply for a scholarship, which provided some financial support for my Law foundation year.
"Settling into full-time study was difficult at first – especially with two young children – but by my second year I had made more friends through the University of Essex Islamic Society , my English language had improved, and I am enjoying my studies.
While there have been struggles along the way, I see my degree as an investment I’m making to help other refugees in the future.
"I still volunteer, to help other refugees with legal issues they may have, offering advice and help with application forms, for example.
I would say to anyone in similar circumstances to not give up.
You shouldn’t let anything stop you from reaching your dream."
"I was in my final year in 2011 within the Department of Law in Syria when the war started.
I met my ex-partner who had to come to the UK to pursue a PhD degree in Finance at Essex, and we left Syria on 8 November 2011.
I briefly returned in February 2012 to do my final exam, but the situation became worse  and I had to fly back to the UK as fast as I could.
I left the county without completing my exam and therefore failed to get my degree.
Since then I haven't returned, and I haven't seen my family.
"The war, the danger, the horror I witnessed in Syria during my stay put me into a severe depression.
Added to this, I wasn't able to speak English, and had no friends around me.
I joined the International Academy at the University of Essex, on a programme to help PhD students’ dependants and partners with their English and integration into life here.
This was my first step towards meet people and learning the language - and after six months I was able to speak fluently and had too many friends!
Then, to help myself financially, I worked at a school as a teaching assistant, taking an NVQ3 in teaching assistance and a SEN2.
I started to feel at home here at Essex.
"When I was working and doing the other degrees, I started feel the difference between my culture and others; especially when I started to make international friends.
Especially issues related to women and children.
I was motivated to know more about these differences, and why women are more or less appreciated in different cultures.
Also, I was interested in the education system here in the UK, and how it is completely different in structure from Syria's.
"One day I met with my ex-partner’s supervisor and I shared these thoughts with him; he encouraged me to study within the Department of Sociology at Essex, as it is one of top departments of its kind.
I had an offer to study Sociology and Social Psychology and I was over the moon.
I was very organised and always had a plan: my English started to improve and mentally I was doing well.
"I had my son in 2014 then I started my BA in 2015.
After I finished my BA with a first, I applied for scholarship at Essex for a Masters degree - I was accepted and did my Master in Survey Methods within ISER, finishing with very good grades, and also doing a placement within ISER for six weeks, I was delighted with this opportunity as I found ISER a great place to learn - its staff are friendly and incredibly smart!
Also, I have a big interest in research methods and statistics, so I wished to continue my study journey and applied for a PhD.
I started my PhD last month and I think I am doing well so far.
"The University of Essex is like a home to me.
It's a place where I felt proud of myself, where I dramatically improved, and found help when I needed it.
There are people who I like and love here.
When I was suffering from depression, I got effective help from my teachers, especially Renee and Carlos.
They were very supportive.
Being student at Essex helped me rethink my life and my career, and I gained unique experience from an academically challenging environment.
As a refugee, I got huge support from my department, emotionally and academically.
"Essex also helped me financially thanks to the Refugee Bursary, which  supports students affected by war and political unrest; it gave me a lot of security, and made me feel I'm not alone, there is always someone here to help if I needed it.
I would not be where I am now without the help and the support I've had from my teachers and friends at Essex.
I am very grateful for this opportunity, and I'm very proud to be a student at Essex."
"I recently joined the UN Refugee Agency in Yemen to lead our protection and assistance response to some 280,000 refugees – mainly from Somalia; Yemen hosts the second largest Somali refugee population globally – and more than 3.7 million internally-displaced people.
"Yemen currently ranks fourth in the number of nationals displaced within their own country by a conflict globally, as it entered its sixth year of conflict.
It has a very sad record when it comes to humanitarian needs, from risks of cholera and famine to being at the bottom of the Human Development Index .
"In Yemen, UNHCR runs its fifth largest cash programme.
While, with respect to refugees, my agency is responsible for all aspects of their wellbeing – from being recognised as refugees or providing specialized services to survivors of sexual and gender-based violence, to health, education or livelihoods – our internally-displaced peoples’ response focuses on protection of civilians, emergency shelters and hosting sites’ management while other humanitarian partners focus on other aspects of their needs.
"At Essex, my primary interest was in international humanitarian law, which led me, for example, to coach the Essex team at the Jean Pictet Competition for international law students that year, on the suggestion from Francoise Hampson, now Emeritus Professor in the School of Law .
But ultimately, the late Sir Nigel Rodley gave me the opportunity to become his assistant on the torture mandate at the United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner .
"Thanks to interaction with other students, who were already experienced human rights or humanitarian practitioners, Essex gave me a sense of the realities of field work.
The Essex LLM postgraduate programme truly combined the theory with the practice.
Essex also allowed me to establish an extended network of friends, on whom I continue to rely to this day for advice and support, and the last Essex friend I made is Christa Rottenstein, who works for the International Organization for Migration’s operation in Yemen ."

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/student-communities/mature-and-part-time:
The mature student community is a diverse one and if you're over the age of
21 at the start of your course, you're a part of it.
We appreciate that studying as a mature student can present challenges.
This is
particularly true if this is your first experience of higher education and you have
other commitments and responsibilities, such as work and family, so we're here to help you.
At the start of your studies at Essex, we run a couple of events specifically
for you to meet other mature students:
You might have additional financial responsibilities that you need to juggle but we're here to help with:
SU Homes can help you find secure, private accommodation if you
want to live off campus.
You may want to stay on campus for one or two nights, for example, during resit exams.
We can't guarantee you short-stay accommodation,
but contact your Student Services Hub to see what might be available.
You can meet up and get to know fellow students who share academic and social interests via the Students' Union Mature Students' Community.
The network is for mature students, student parents and part-time students.
You can use the Communities Common Room, Square 4, next to the Extra Store.
The the SU Lounge and The Mezz are good spaces to relax or
study on your own or with friends.
You have access to a plethora of study spaces , which
are available for you to study individually or in groups.
You'll automatically be assigned a peer mentor ,
who is a second or third student in your department.
You'll meet them during Welcome Week and they can answer any questions about
university life and help you settle in.
If you'd like your peer mentor to be a mature student, please email peermentor@essex.ac.uk .
You can contact fellow students for advice via the postgraduate mentoring scheme .
You'll be allocated a personal tutor at the beginning of your studies
who can help with academic and personal concerns.
As a mature student you can also access Skills for Success , a range of workshops and individual support if you want to further develop your skills in writing, maths, research, study skills and English language.
There's also advice and guidance on a range of topics, including:
We conduct surveys, interviews and focus groups to make sure we're helping you, as a mature student.
If you'd like to take part, please email studentengagement@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/careers/careers-support-and-advice:
We know its not easy to figure out what you want to do with the rest of your life.
But don't worry!
At Essex, we have a great team of professional careers advisers who can support you through your journey, as you develop your passions and sharpen your focus.
Whatever choices you make in life, having a firm foundation of skills and knowledge around career planning, finding a job, networking and understanding your own motivations will give you a head start.
Our careers service can offer you a wealth of support and our career-focused modules across a range of subjects will set you up for success.
We offer free events throughout the year to help you prepare for the global job market and to meet potential employers.
We have previously run CV workshops, subject specific career sessions such as 'Careers in Psychology', alternative job search workshops, and fairs for you to meet local businesses and discuss opportunities with employers.
Applying for jobs isn't a walk in the park, but if you make the most of the support and guidance on offer, you'll be ready to commence your job hunt.
From the moment you join us at Essex, you will have access to our Careers Service throughout your entire career even after you graduate.
They're extremely supportive and understanding, and appreciate that everyone they meet are at different stages when it comes to thinking about their future.
Our services include
Our career advice professionals can help you explore different career paths and talk through the range of skills you can work on while at university to help give you that edge.
They can help you build a career plan based on the following:
And if you need further inspiration, they will provide a number of resources that can help spark further ideas.
Once you have an idea of what you want to do, our Careers Service can help you in your job search .
The first step is knowing where to look and we have a range of resources to get you started, including if you want to look for paid jobs while studying.
If you want to know more about jobs on campus, check out our Earn while you learn page.
Our service also includes offering international students advice on employment regulations in the UK and guidance on working or volunteering abroad.
At Essex, we will prepare you for success in both finding and securing a job.
Our Careers team can provide you with the skills that will leave you brimming with confidence when applying for a job you really want.
We can help you turbo-boost your CV to stand above the rest and walk into the interview fully prepared and knowing what to expect.
Our Skills for Success team and Careers Services Team will help you identify and improve your talents and strengths.
We will:
Our leading academic staff are industry active.
This means that as you study, you will have the opportunity to seek hands-on experience through work placements whilst growing your own network in your area of interest.
A lot of our degrees include compulsory career modules each year of study.
This means you will have dedicated time spent on preparing you for a future career, and the opportunity to consider how your new academic skills will be useful in the world of work.
Want some inspiration to explore different options?
Need some advice from someone who has gone before, who can spare some time to share what they learned along the way?
Our Essex mentors are there to offer the benefit of their experience and guide you to develop the skills you need to make decisions that are right for you.
Further details of how you can apply to the programme can be found on our Essex Career Mentoring Programme page .
Every student arrives at Essex with spirit and determination to succeed.
But, once you graduate you need to know you are set for great things.
At Essex we prepare you for what happens next, we give you the support to find the career that's right for you and help you build your CV so you are ready for your next challenge.
There are options available for students with immigration permission who wish to work in the UK following the successful completion of their studies at Essex.
We aren't just here to help you find a job whilst you're studying, we'll also help get you get on the career ladder, find that dream job and develop your skills and knowledge.
And it won't all stop once you graduate, we'll always be on hand even after you've left Essex.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/careers/earn-while-you-learn:
At Essex you will have the opportunity to gain valuable work experience while putting a bit of extra cash in your pocket, through a wide range of paid jobs and internships.
Working while you study can give you a head start in developing the skills you need for your chosen career, as well as the chance to make enduring connections.
As part of our cost of living support package for students, we have expanded the employment opportunities available on campus and increased the number of hours of work available in both Colchester and Southend.
Roles at our campuses include Student Ambassadors, Essex Interns, accommodation representatives, shop assistants, catering staff and much more.
We have our own job vacancy board, Essex CareerHub , which shares opportunities we think our students will be interested in, and it also includes local employer vacancies.
You'll still have access to it after you graduate too.
Are you looking to develop your workplace skills, explore your career options and try out something new in a supportive and nurturing environment?
At Essex, we have our very own internship scheme designed to provide our students with paid work experience across a range of departments and roles such as Digital Marketing Assistant with Essex Business School or working at Edge Hotel .
Check out our Essex Interns page for more information.
Working in one of the many Students' Union (SU) roles on campus is a great way to get some experience while you make friends and top up the money in your pocket.
The SU has a variety of roles across it's campus outlets so you could find yourself working in any of the roles below:
See the SU website for more information.
We are not currently recruiting for Student Ambassadors.
However, if you would like to be notified when we next open applications, please register your interest using our online form
We have a number of roles connected to our extensive range of accommodation across our campuses.
Depending on the need, the duration of employment can vary from a couple of weeks to a few months and includes positions such as housekeepers and porters.
Go to our part-time work page for more information
Welcome week is one the most important moments in the University of Essex calendar, when new students and their families arrive on campus for the first time.
Our Welcome Assistants get the chance to make a positive impact on how our new students experience our campuses during their first few days, particularly on Arrivals Day.
They are also there to help at Registration events, answering questions and familiarising new students with facilities on campus.
Our Essex Interns programme provides our students with an opportunity to work with a local employer as a paid intern in a temporary position, to gain experience in a particular field.
At Essex we want you to feel able to explore your passions and interests through paid employment where you can develop your knowledge and skills in a real world environment.
As an Essex Intern, you'll get the opportunity to broaden your network in the industry of your choice, and add valuable experience to your CV.
Essex Interns have previously worked in a variety of sectors, from charity to commercial, creative to technical, marketing to IT.
Check out our Essex Interns page for more details.
Read our student stories about Essex internships and how you too can gain experience, make contacts, develop new skills and jump start your career while you study.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/careers/entrepreneurs:
Essex Startups offers a wide range of training, support and funding opportunities to our community of budding entrepreneurs.
Whether you already have a business idea, or are simply interested in the possibility of working for yourself in the future, we can provide the guidance and support to help make your dreams a reality.
Studio X is located at our Colchester Campus and offers students and graduates who are interested in starting their own business support throughout their entrepreneurial journey.
It doesn't matter what course you're on, or what your idea is.
As a student at Essex you can learn the skills needed to be successful in business and use Studio X as a base to help your start-up to grow.
Our team are on hand to offer free one to one business advice sessions to students, staff and graduates of the University.
Our in-house experts offer guidance and practical information to help you develop your ideas and structure your start-up to help you succeed.
Our fun filled and action-packed weekenders are a great way to focus on your business.
Whether you are still formulating ideas or are ready to thrash out your marketing strategy, we cover a host of different topics to help you make the best of your start-up while working with other students and graduates who share your interest in becoming future business owners.
Our Business Skills workshops are bursting with advice and guidance and are focused on helping you approach various aspects of your start-up.
These sessions are open to all our Essex students and Graduates, and we encourage you to attend as many as you can!
Here's just some of what we have to offer:
Search Careerhub for Essex Startups to find out more about our upcoming events.
The Make Me An Entrepreneur series consists of four six-week programmes, each focusing on enhancing the opportunities for underrepresented groups within our entrepreneurial community.
Each week a guest speaker will share their own start-up journey experiences and provide expert industry insights into the opportunities and challenges they have encountered.
Upon completion, participants have the opportunity to pitch for funding to develop the business idea.
Our intensive, two-day Bootcamp to move your business forward with the help of a host of entrepreneurs, business experts and Essex Startups mentors.
Focussed on developing your business plan by using techniques such as the Business Model Canvas, Empathy Mapping and Customer Avatar creation, in order to get you ready for The Big Idea process.
Over the summer you will submit sections of your business plan for expert feedback, resulting in the change to pitch for funding for your business!
evolve is our pre-accelerator programme for current students, staff and recent alumni, supporting the 15 most ambitious and promising ideas from the University’s start-up ecosystem.
Run annually, we accept applications from ventures at any stage of development, ranging from an idea with demonstrable market research behind it, basic/early-stage prototypes, already-launched product/services with customers, and those ventures generating revenue.
evolve starts with a three-month programme of weekly expert forums and workshops, giving you the chance to hear from leaders in the key topics and themes of building and launching new ventures.
Following this you will undertake a six-month period of self-working, with additional support and mentoring, culminating in a demo day where you will pitch for funding.
Essex Startups offer various ways to develop your business ideas and your entrepreneurial skills, including competitions to win cash prizes.
From the Big Idea to Dragons Den, we host funding opportunities throughout the year to help aid your startup.
We have a jam-packed monthly schedule of 60-90 minute workshops to help you with your start-up.
From marketing strategies to legal structures, to bookkeeping; we have tons of helpful sessions to help you prepare for your start-up journey
This 8-10 week programme offers students from any academic discipline the opportunity to work on tangible, real-world challenges faced by external organisations.
Through a combination of workshops, mentoring, self-directed work, and teamwork, groups are posed a question by the ‘challenge-host’ and asked to create a report and presentation that should help the organisation understand the problem to a higher level, with suggested solutions worth exploring.
Students will benefit from exposure to real-world business challenges while organisations will get access to our talented community who approach problems with fresh insights.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/careers/more-than-a-degree:
Life at Essex allows you the opportunity to experience so much more than your degree, gaining the edge you need in a competitive world.
Boost your CV through work placements, volunteering, and even opportunities abroad.
If you want to get out there and experience work in a particular sector, or explore a potential career through a practical hands-on environment, our work placements are for you.
A work placement forms part of your degree, working for an organisation for an agreed amount of time combining your study with practical work.
For more information about placement opportunities please contact our Placements Team.
There are many reasons to make a work placement part of your degree course.
The benefits include:
Work placements come in different forms for differing lengths of time.
If you want to make a difference, gain some life skills and enhance your CV while you're at it, try volunteering.
There are plenty of opportunities on and off campus to get involved with a variety of projects from one-off events to regular activities and partnerships with external organisations.
Improving your life chances and gaining new skills aren't the only benefit to volunteering.
Some of our student volunteers have gone on to win awards for their work.
Read more in this blog about volunteering for a more sustainable world .
Our SU have some fabulous opportunities for you to pursue your passions through volunteering with their V Team:
This is just a shap shot of the opportunities on offer and you can always start your own project too!
Check out the V Team website for more information and to sign up.
If you're a sports lover, you can get involved in our Essex Blades Sports Clubs, whether you're an active participant or just love to watch.
There are opportunities to volunteer by helping out with sporting events, co-ordinating communications, and managing the administration.
You can also gain experience of refereeing or coaching or working with a local community partner.
For those studying in the areas of Law and Human Rights, you have the chance to get some experience working on real cases and projects within the local community through our clinics.
Get real-world legal experience through volunteering with the Essex Law Clinic and put yourself in a great position for life after graduation.
Develop practical skills and build your confidence in working on cases involving vulnerable members of the community under the supervision of experience lawyers and practitioners.
Find out more about volunteering for the Essex Law Clinic .
Working in the HRC clinic is a fantastic chance to put your knowledge to work on current and enduring human rights issues both locally and around the world.
You will have a unique opportunity to develop professional techniques and work in partnership with NGOs such as Amnesty International and international organisations such as the United Nations.
Find out more about volunteering for the Human Rights Centre Clinic .
New for the 2023-24 academic year, The Business Law Clinic (The BLC) provides an opportunity to gain knowledge in various specialised areas of business law observed from a new angle in a practical setting.
Following in the footsteps of the Essex Law Clinic and The Human Rights Centre Clinic, The BLC champions social justice through the lens of business law.
It delivers social justice with a business law focus, understanding social justice as equality and encompasses activities that aim to alleviate inequality in various settings.
Find out more about volunteering for the Business Law Clinic .
If spending time abroad is on your bucket list, why wait?
Rather than taking a gap year before or after your studies, why not combine the two and get that experience as part of your degree?
At Essex, we offer you the chance to study, work or volunteer in another country, through our Essex Abroad programme.
Check out our Essex Abroad Blog Series to see what others have done to give you some ideas.
Adventure awaits
Take your placement year overseas
Experience the world
We're offering an employability award based on extra curricular activities here at Essex.
And you can get up to 50 Units for your international experience abroad.
The award recognises all your extra curricular activities on your Higher Education Achievement Report!

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/careers/entrepreneurs/start-up-stories-22-23:
Read the inspiring stories from the students and graduates who have received training, mentoring and funding from the Essex Startups team to develop their own start-up businesses during the academic year 2022/23.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law/careers:
Climate change, forced displacement, and the use of artificial intelligence are only some of the global challenges affecting the legal landscape today.
As the legal sector reacts, the need for graduates who are resilient and able to adapt to our changing society is becoming increasingly important.
On this page, we're covering your burning questions, like; how will a law degree benefit my future career prospects?
And how will following the degree route help me to succeed in a challenging jobs market?
You'll also learn how Essex Law School will help you achieve your career goals through gaining real life experience during your degree.
You'll find information on various career paths for law graduates, and not just traditional routes, but roles and careers that are relevant to today's world, and which tackle pressing issues like our global refugee crisis, and the immense impact Brexit is having on businesses and economies all over the world.
We've also got you covered with information on how to become a barrister, solicitor, or licensed conveyancer for example.
As we're immensely proud of the achievements of our alumni community who are fiercely representing around the world, we're sharing some inspiring alumni stories to show you exactly what you can achieve with hard work, determination, and that fearless Essex spirit.
We know the future right now is unpredictable, but it's without a doubt that with a law degree from Essex, you will be ready for it.
For example, large law firms will value those with knowledge in family law, employment law, commercial and business law as these areas are booming due to the pandemic.
Charities and NGOs working with migrant communities facing displacement will value graduates with knowledge in international humanitarian law, and law graduates who have an understanding of the drastic realities of climate change and a knowledge of environmental law will be key in helping the government, and businesses respond to the global climate crisis.
These are just a few examples of the areas of law that a degree from the School can lead to.
The skills you will develop will enable you to successfully transition into a wide range of potential career paths, and be able to respond to the changing, competitive employment landscape.
You could also use your undergraduate law degree as a foundation to study our MA Social Work .
You’d then be eligible to apply for professional registration as a Social Worker where on a day to day basis, you’d be advocating for others using your knowledge of law and human rights.
Legal professionals play an important role in helping charities, companies, businesses, and governments respond to the challenges we face today.
At Essex, you will be immersed into a broad programme of study, designed to challenge you, develop your knowledge in a range of legal contexts, and prepare you to work with a diverse range of people so that whichever sector you choose to work in, you will be able to demonstrate the necessary skills, experience and knowledge to succeed in your chosen career and help shape the future legal environment.
Those who choose to study joint honours courses will acquire critical, reflective and analytical skills that are common to both areas of law; and will explore the differences between them and the approaches taken within legal and political thought.
There are also many opportunities for law students at Essex, which provides real-life experience working in our Essex Law Clinic, and on human rights projects in partnership with global human rights organisations through our Human Rights Centre Clinic , based in our leading Human Rights Centre .
A degree from the Essex Law School will ensure you graduate with specific knowledge, experience and transferable skills in readiness for the workplace, helping your CV to stand out in what we know to be a competitive industry.
The legal landscape is continuously evolving as it reacts to our changing society.
Employers are seeking adaptable and resilient law graduates with a diverse knowledge of the law, across a variety of industries.
You'll have the opportunity to study a distinctive range of courses and modules as an Essex Law School student.
You can choose from courses and modules in areas such as commercial law,  human rights, maritime law, and corporate responsibility to name a few.
You'll have the opportunity to gain knowledge in contemporary issues of cultural diversity, learn about the key features of property law, understand criminal law in England and Wales and explore many challenging questions facing the world we live in today.
The courses are designed to enable you to tailor your study around areas most closely aligned with your career goals, whether that's following a traditional route in becoming a solicitor or barrister, or following a pathway leading you into a career as a policy researcher, a frontline journalist, or even an entrepreneur.
Are you interested in pursuing a career in criminal, public, social, political or international law?
With an understanding of the contemporary challenges relating to climate change, your career can lead you into international humanitarian law, protecting minorities and indigenous people.
Social media, big data, facial recognition; rapidly developing technologies are paving the way for future experts in digital law and cybercrime
You could help implement legal frameworks to support the management of pandemics and health crises, ensuring that laws protect the health and wellbeing of individuals and communities.
Displacement is a global issue, and millions of people are forced from their homes every year as a result of conflict and persecution.
You could help organisations like the UN, fight for their protection.
A post-Brexit world calls for skilled legal professionals in international trade and maritime law
As a student of Essex Law School, you'll be taught how to prepare for a career in the legal profession.
You'll uncover a motivation to become an agent for change, and we'll ensure you're equipped with the right tools and knowledge to pursue the fight for justice, whichever path you choose.
In your first two years at Essex, you'll take a career management module alongside other law subjects, where you'll be challenged to think deeply, broadly and strategically about career paths.
This module is designed to enhance your employability profile by helping you learn your strengths and goals, and develop an understanding of what employers are looking for, both within and outside of the legal profession.
You'll get to participate in activities, workshops and sessions that help you to develop, whilst building on your skills and competencies, helping your CV to stand out in the graduate market.
Choosing to undertake a law degree at Essex will give you the opportunity to participate in some fantastic opportunities to gain real-life legal experience throughout your studies.
It means that when you join the graduate jobs market, you'll be able to demonstrate an aptitude in legal knowledge in a range of contexts, and be able to put this into practice.
You'll be able to:
You'll also be invited to an exciting programme of research seminars, reading groups and mini-courses led by your lecturers, members of the Human Rights Centre , academics across the University and visiting speakers, all with global perspectives and insights into law and justice.
Attending these events will expand your philosophical knowledge beyond what you learn on your course.
Our undergraduate law degrees can include an optional placement year, where you can gain professional experience with a relevant company.
We also work with the University's Student Development Team to help you find out about other work experience, internships and voluntary opportunities.
Carrying out a placement or a voluntary position helps you to gain experience working in a professional legal environment, it gives you the opportunity to explore areas of law you may be interested to pursue a career in, and provides you with key contacts within the legal sector, giving you a competitive edge in the graduate job market.
Students have previously interned with Amnesty International , Anti-Slavery International , Article 19 , The Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions , The Council of Europe , JUSTICE , The International Commission of Jurists , The International Service for Human Rights , INTERIGHTS , Minority Rights Group International , REDRESS and UNHCR to name a few organisations.
We have partner institutions all over the world who are excited to welcome you, so if you're keen to study abroad for a year, have the itch to travel, and want to make life-long memories, this is the perfect opportunity for you.
Our Careers Services will support you from the moment you join us at Essex, through to graduation and beyond.
Our staff understand the challenges of finding work, and can help you explore your options and identify your opportunities, whatever stage you are at in thinking about your future.
The Careers Services provides a range of services, such as:
Many graduates of Essex Law School will decide to continue their studies at Masters or PhD level.
This is an excellent idea if you are interested in focusing on a particular area of law and want to acquire the in-depth knowledge and skills needed to specialise in your chosen field.
Our postgraduate students come to Essex from all over the world, to learn from our expert scholars , and benefit from our global education.
If you're interested in pursuing a career around some of the pressing challenges our world faces today, you may be interested in studying our LLM International Trade and Maritime Law , LLM International Commercial and Business Law , International Humanitarian Law , or even our LLM Economic, Social and Cultural Rights .
These are just a few of the specialist courses you could study with us.
Browse our full list of Masters courses to find your advanced area of study.
Whichever course you choose,  having an advanced skill set when it comes to understanding our worlds most significant challenges, will be attractive to employers across the globe who are looking to overcome the many challenges our society faces in a post-pandemic era.
There are often scholarship and funding opportunities available for students within the Essex Law School.
Browse our scholarship finder for funding opportunities which may be available.
If you are a graduate of the University of Essex, studied abroad here, or have a spouse or partner studying here as a full-time international student paying overseas fees, we'll give you a loyalty discount of up to 33% on the tuition fee for your first year of postgraduate study at Essex.
For more information, please visit our scholarships and funding page .
In Essex Law School, we're proud to continue our lifelong relationship with our graduates all over the world.
You'll also remain a member of our incredibly vibrant University alumni network, a community which welcomes all graduates of Essex throughout our history.
Your exclusive membership will give you access to discounts, networking events and so much more.
You can hear inspiring stories from other members of our global alumni community, and use our Friend Finder Service to reconnect with your old friends.
Here at Essex, we value the advice and knowledge that our alumni have soaked up along their journey's, so we are eager for our alumni to come and volunteer at Essex, and help make a difference to the next generation of graduates.
Our graduates continue to make us proud and are inspirational representatives of the Essex Law education.
Essex law School graduates have gone on to a wide variety of careers in international and intergovernmental organisations or employment with governments across the world, in commerce and banking, in non-governmental organisations and, as might be expected, in the legal profession and the judiciary.
Our graduates have gone onto work in companies such as the Home Office ; The Guardian ; National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children ; World Health Organization ; and The Institute of Public Finance , securing roles such as National Protection Officer for UNHCR ; an advocate for Refugees International ; a lawyer for the Registry of the European Court of Human Rights ; and a trade promotion manager at the Department of Trade and Industry , to name a few.
You can be confident that you'll graduate equipped for your future career.
Whether you want to follow the natural path your course might lead to, start your own business, or just get onto the career ladder.
See what Essex can offer you.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law:
At Essex, you'll join a Law School that's freer, more daring and more experimental than many traditional law schools, and have access to our renowned Human Rights Centre which is a recognised international leader.
Essex Law School is committed to providing an education that is both relevant and responsive to the demands of a changing society.
We're excited for you to join a Law School that has a buzzing international community of students and staff.
Our global outlook will encourage you to develop cross-cultural perspectives and insights into law and justice around the world.
The Law and access to justice affect every part of human life, from cybercrime and identity fraud to protecting minority rights and responding to the climate crisis.
Your course will explore a range of topics that are relevant to the challenges people face from across the world on a daily basis, and will prepare you for an exciting career.
Find out which courses we're accepting Clearing applications for, browse the modules you can learn during your degree, and apply online with our quick, easy form!
They are the global language of the world, and they are in desperate need of protection at an extremely crucial time.
If you're ready to join the fight for human rights, who better to learn from than leading academics that are advising global organisations like the United Nations, and informing policy in government?
Where better to equip yourself with the knowledge, skills, confidence, and practical experience for a career in human rights than our internationally recognised Human Rights Centre ?
From armed conflict and forced displacement to environmental justice and 21st-century digital wars, your Essex Law and Human Rights lecturers hit the ground running when it comes to addressing current global challenges and crises.
Their cutting-edge research not only informs the global conversation, it informs your Essex Law education and inspires young, curious minds like yours to rise up and join the fight for justice.
Expect the unexpected.
An Essex Law education is far from stuffy classrooms and dusting off old library books.
It's about opportunities to work with real people needing real legal advice in our Essex Law Clinic , it's about opportunities to work alongside international organisations like Amnesty International in our Human Rights Centre Clinic , and it's also about opportunities to test your legal skills in negotiating, mediation, and moot court competitions.
The keyword here is 'opportunities' because that's exactly what you're given throughout your Essex Law education.
You've already got a taste of what your future at Essex can look like, but what about after that?
There's no denying that the ever-changing legal landscape is both an exhilarating and daunting reality, so we've got you covered talking all about career opportunities, whilst breaking down the details on how to become a barrister or solicitor.
You'll also hear from some of our alumni like Temini Ayo-Kasumu who have taken that Essex spirit and are now fiercely representing around the world.
FYI, Temini graduated from Essex with an LLB Law in 2018 and is now the founder of Ede , a start-up with big goals to transform the world of feminine care.
Be like Temini, study Law at Essex.
Step inside Essex Law School from wherever you are with our immersive 360° tour.
Explore your future common room, visit the Law Clinic where you’ll work on real cases for members of the public, and drop the offices of our Director of Student Support and Engagement and the Student Education Team to see where you can go for advice and guidance.
It’s the perfect way to picture yourself studying here before you arrive.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/philosophical-historical-and-interdisciplinary-studies/careers:
Your future is a big deal and we know that it can be stressful trying to figure it all out.
But here's the deal, we don't expect you to know what you want to do before you start your degree, and you shouldn't either.
We've got you covered.
The great thing about going to university is that as you progress through your studies, you'll discover what truly interests you.
You'll have access to loads of exciting opportunities and ongoing advice and guidance in helping you carve out a future that aligns with you're developing interests.
You're never left to figure it out alone.
It's just not how we do things here.
So, right now think of future you - the future you that will be grateful you soaked up all the opportunities during your degree that will put you in the best possible position for what comes next.
This page gives you a look into all the different things you can do during your time here - whether that's a paid internship, getting hands-on entrepreneurial experience, volunteering to help endangered sea turtles in Costa Rica, or spending a year in Europe networking, and getting to know what you are truly capable of.
There's no time like the present.
The time to take advantage of everything Essex has to offer you is right here, right now.
For history student Rielly Kitchener, a 12-week work placement at Essex Record Office has provided inspiration for his future career, as well as his most memorable Essex experience.
We totally get it, there's a lot to take in.
If you've got any questions then our Careers Service are happy to hear from you.
There's a great team at the other end ready to help you with all your questions.
You can also connect with the Careers Service on LinkedIn.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/philosophical-historical-and-interdisciplinary-studies:
Welcome to the home of future thinkers, go-getters, and changemakers of the world.
Our students and staff are curious to understand how the world works and eager to find out how they can make a difference in it.
If you're interested in studying diverse and complex regions with rich cultural heritage, have original ideas and opinions on current and topical social issues and love to learn about the major events, people, and ideas that have shaped life as we know it today, you're in the right place.
Our world is complex, interconnected, and fascinating all at once.
It needs imaginative thinkers and go-getters like you to continue learning about its intricacies so that you can bring progressive change, and build a better future of global citizenship.
You can choose from undergraduate and postgraduate degrees covering topics across history , art history , and philosophy .
You can also study degrees in global studies , European studies , Latin American studies , American (US) studies , and liberal arts which have more of an interdisciplinary focus.
Browse our school's pages and explore what it means to be an undergraduate, Masters, or PhD student in our school.
Explore career advice and opportunities, learn about your lecturers and research supervisors, find out about our research and so much more.
Losing the irreplaceable collections of trailblazing tattoo artists and body modification pioneers would deprive us of vital insights into our culture and history.
Inspired by a family cautionary tale, Dr Matt Lodder has dedicated his personal and professional life to piecing together and celebrating the history of tattooing.
If you would like any more information about philosophy, history, art or interdisciplinary studies, or have a question you would like to ask, please complete this short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/literature-film-and-theatre-studies:
Our department is home to five exciting subject areas; literature , film , creative writing , journalism , and drama .
Whether you aspire to become a writer, reporter, entrepreneur, or performer, or dream of pursuing a career in a creative industry, you're in the right place.
Head of Department
In our department, students mix critical understanding with creative practice, developing intellectual and artistic skills vital for engaging with the world.
Join us at Loughton Campus on 9 July 2025 for a workshop-demonstration in which Dr Rajashree Warrier will perform and share how movement, expression and narrative interweave in Bharatanatyam practice, followed by an interdisciplinary discussion panel and Q&A.
Get in touch if you're looking for more information about a course, our department, or have a question you'd like to ask.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/edge-hotel-school/careers-and-partnerships:
As a student at the Edge Hotel School, you will benefit from close links to the hospitality and events industries.
Not only are you able to work in a real hotel and on genuine events , serving real customers and facing real challenges, our courses have also been designed to offer you as much exposure to the industry as possible and increasing your employability for after graduation.
Studying at the Edge Hotel School can give you the knowledge and skills to work in high-profile organisations in a wide range of sectors and countries.
Our undergraduate courses have been developed with industry, for industry and provide you with the skills needed to increase your employability in the real world.
Throughout our courses we use the Professional Performance Assessment (PPA) which takes the form of a mock interview to allow you to reflect, practise and improve your interview skills before embarking on interviews for your first graduate role.
Many industry experts deliver master classes to support your development during your course and the annual Edge Hotel School careers fair welcomes a range of hospitality organisations to give you the chance to network and engage with future employers.
Throughout your degree you will be given the chance to engage directly with the industry and take advantage of opportunities to connect - for example, some students on our Events Management courses are able to gain experience at the BRIT Awards.
All of our undergraduates get experience in the fully commercial luxury hotel, Wivenhoe House , giving you the chance to put your academic knowledge into practice and gain valuable skills to add to your CV.
In their final year, students get to connect directly with a related organisation for their degree for the Level 6 Consultancy Project.
Our students have also embarked on additional self-organised work experience placements with the likes of Shangri-La The Shard , Red Carnation Hotels and Marriott by utilising the industry connections available through the School.
The Edge Hotel School ethos is to deliver industry-engaged education so that our graduates can be at the forefront of shaping our industry's future.
With the support of the hospitality, events and tourism industries, we deliver a higher education experience that sets our graduates apart from their peers.
We believe in the power of partnerships, and by utilising out network of partners across these industries, we seek to deliver a comprehensive curriculum which allows our students to build their own networks and engage with industry professionals at every level.
If you are in industry professional keen to engage with Edge Hotel School, please contact the Industry Engagement Officer.
Our annual Careers Fair is held at the beginning of the new academic year as part of our ‘Welcome Week’ agenda, with all our students invited to participate and meet with our partners.
Each year, we host approximately 40 exhibitors to network with our students and promote their graduate roles from across the Hotel, Hospitality, Events and Tourism industries.
We find that it is beneficial for our students to engage with the industry from the beginning of the course and begin forming their crucial networks over the course of their time at Edge, meaning that many students leave us with an enviable network of connections.
Some of our previous exhibitors have been:
Since 2017, we have had an exclusive partnership providing hospitality at o2 arena that allows our students to work at the BRIT Awards.
This unique opportunity gives our students experience working at a high profile event in a landmark venue and the importance of professionalism in the workplace.
The students attend a briefing on the morning of the event, where they are assigned their station for the evening; this can be anything from working in the VIP area, serving at the bar or waiting on guests in the main hall throughout the ceremony.
Held in January every year, our Student Conference sees our undergraduate cohorts gather with industry professionals and graduated alumni for a day of fascinating keynote presentations, topical panel conversations and culminating in an exciting networking reception.
The day begins with group site visits to visit some of our London-based partners’ properties and venues, before converging to our conference venue for a full day of industry engagement.
Transportation is provided by Edge, meaning that there is no cost for our students to attend this crucial  event.
The conference is the highlight of the academic year, providing a further opportunity for students to bolster their networks and exchange ideas with industry leaders.
Throughout the year, we will invite guest speakers to join us at our campus to deliver sessions to students, enrich the curriculum and showcase their company.
Guest lectures are typically formal sessions typically last around 45 minutes and are structured to contextualise taught content by providing real-life examples from their experiences in the industry.
Masterclasses are practical sessions, utilising the facilities in our onsite 4* country house hotel, Wivenhoe House Hotel to provide hands-on experiential learning.
Examples of previous sessions are:
Edge Hotel School works closely with leading industry bodies such as the Institute of Hospitality and Master Innholders.
Students can register for their free student membership, which entitles them to access a number of online resources and join the Institute for webinars and events.
Graduates can then benefit from a year’s discounted membership to continue their development and use the postnominals AIH to distinguish themselves amongst industry peers.
Students also benefit from the opportunity to attend The Master Innholders’ annual Hotel Leadership Conference in London by volunteering to assist in the coordination of the event, and subsequently engage with top hoteliers from across the country.
Graduating from Edge Hotel School, students enter our exclusive alumni network, garnering invitations to our annual Alumni Networking Reception and continual support as you enter the wider industry.
Visiting a property or venue allows students to get a feel for the company and meet many existing colleagues.
Tours of the building usually precede a working lunch and discussions with employees to contextualise the formal curriculum; for example as a presentation or round-table discussion.
There are also a number of external trips that students can participate in, such as industry conventions and exhibitions that provide networking opportunities and the chance to explore new ideas amongst industry professionals.
Available to students in levels 5 and up, we have a number of scholarships that awarded to exemplary students who have the opportunity to impress our sponsors through a written application and interview panel.
The title is awarded alongside a cash bursary, to put towards further professional development, such as accommodation and travel costs during work experience, or gaining specialist qualifications.
The terms of each scholarship varies based on the sponsor’s vision and ethos, and so the titleholder’s values would align with that of the sponsor and their selected specialism.
Support from a sponsor can also make a huge difference in future career development post-graduation.
Level 6 students participate in group projects to showcase their knowledge and make their marks on the industry.
This is an opportunity for students to showcase their innovative approaches and creative thinking in a real-life scenario.
Hospitality Management and Hotel Management students are given a brief by their company of a problem within the company, or a missed opportunity.
They will then conduct comprehensive research and pitch a solution to the problem or a potential utilisation of the opportunity.
Events Management students become part of the planning and operational committee for an event, taking responsibility for the event from the initial idea through to coordinating the operations on the day.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/edge-hotel-school:
We are the first hotel school of our kind in the UK - offering you valuable, practical experience in a fully-commercial hotel and connecting you with our industry right from the start.
At the Edge Hotel School, we work to prepare to start your professional career from the moment you join us.
Our partnership with Wivenhoe House Hotel , a luxury English country house hotel on the University of Essex Colchester campus, is where you'll gain the experience and confidence to set you apart, and prepare you as a future leader for our industry.
Alongside this integrated practical experience you will receive exceptional teaching from our academic team with decades of tourism, hospitality and events experience, in the UK and around the world.
Whether you are interested in a completely different way of learning, taking a year abroad with your studies, or are looking to enhance your education with a Masters degree, Edge Hotel School is the place to be.
Jessica came to Essex in search of new opportunities and found her perfect course at the Edge Hotel School.
If you would like any more information about Edge Hotel School or have a question you would like to ask, please complete this short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/computer-science-and-electronic-engineering/careers:
Studying a degree within our School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering provides you with the technical and transferable skills you need to succeed in your career after graduation.
Computing and electronics are major industries both in the UK and around the globe, and demand for graduates in these disciplines is outstripping supply.
The sector also offers one of the highest starting salaries for graduates with degrees in computer science and electronic engineering .
Many government departments are undergoing significant digital transformation, particularly in areas around security, sustainability, and providing digital platforms for the public.
The public sector doesn’t just cover major London-based departments such as the Cabinet Office or the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
It also includes smaller and non-ministerial bodies, such as HMRC and the National Crime Agency; local government such as County Councils and London Boroughs; and major public bodies like the NHS and Highways England.
There are a broad selection of jobs for computer science and engineering graduates in the public sector, and you may find the same or similar roles are advertised in multiple departments.
Roles in the public sector can include:
The Civil Service Fast Stream is a highly competitive leadership development programme run by the UK Civil Service.
Successful applicants will work in relevant government departments as part of one of seventeen potential schemes.
Scheme participants start on £31,000 a year and are eligible for roles starting at £45,000 to £55,000 a year on successfully completing their scheme.
Different schemes have different durations, ranging from 2 to 5 years, and different degree level and subject requirements.
For example, the Digital scheme develops Civil Servants who will work on digital services or technology rollouts.
It requires a 2:2 but no specific degree subject, although you may find your computer science or engineering degree very helpful.
Alternatively, the Science and Engineering Fast Stream requires a postgraduate degree (either Masters or PhD ) that must be in a science or engineering subject as you will act as a specialist in science and engineering fields.
Computer science and engineering are essential subjects for the 21st century, with technology dominating many aspects of our daily life.
However, in the UK we currently struggle with teaching computing at GCSE and A-Level.
This problem is made worse by a shortage of teachers who have an undergraduate degree in computer science .
Students who have a poor IT experience in school are less likely to study the subject at degree level, making the situation worse.
To help improve the number of teachers in subjects that have a shortage (including computer science and mathematics), financial support may be available for graduates who are looking at teacher training.
This can include government-funded bursaries of up to £29,000, or scholarships funded by bodies such as BCS The Chartered Institute of IT , of up to £31,000.
Remember to check all the requirements carefully as you may need a minimum undergraduate award (such as a 2:1), or a Masters degree .
Bursaries often change from year to year so you may find there is less support in the future, or more!
Many computer science and engineering students dream of working for major technology companies such as Facebook and Google.
But computing and engineering are now so prevalent in our society that almost any business will need IT support and management.
Smaller companies may outsource this support to specialist consultants or agencies, but larger organisations will have in-house teams.
Private sector roles that many engineering and computer science graduates go into include:
Our alumni have taken roles with a range of organisations including Conde Nast, Formula One, and American Express.
The “Third Sector” is a term commonly used for organisations that don’t fall within the public or private sectors such as; charities and NGOs, community groups, think tanks and private research institutes, and social enterprises and co-operatives.
Working for the Third Sector can be very rewarding.
You may be helping influence policy making through research and campaigning, supporting a charity’s fundraising efforts through better data management, or helping improve support or quality of life for people with serious health conditions.
Roles within the Third Sector can include:
If you prefer the idea of being flexible and picking your own work then you may prefer self-employment or starting your own business.
Many graduates from computer science and engineering decide to go down the route of self-employment through consultancy roles.
We also have graduates who decide to start their own business.
Our University recognises how important this route can be for students and has invested in support such as:
Our School has excellent links with local Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) which can also help you with networking and understanding how to take your first steps towards entrepreneurship.
Computer science and engineering degrees help you develop a range of technical skills that are essential in careers in these fields.
Many of them can also be useful if you want to pursue a postgraduate degree in the future, for example programming skills can be helpful for studying data science or artificial intelligence.
Depending on your degree and the optional modules you pick during your study you can learn different technical skills.
Every day huge amounts of data are generated.
Journey times on our roads, the pattern of online purchases, the climate, all this information is collected, stored securely, and retrieved to deliver insight for governments and organisations.
Through our modules you will learn about different types of data structures such as lists, stacks and queues, and how to develop programs for data sorting.
You may also learn about database development, types of database modelling, and information retrieval.
Depending on your degree, you will have an opportunity to learn more about software engineering, from identifying the specific requirements of a piece of software, to designing and testing, addressing reliability issues, and further development as the software moves through its lifecycle.
An experience of software engineering is essential for many developer roles, including computer games, mobile apps, and web development.
An understanding of mathematics is essential for computer science and engineering.
We understand that for many students maths at GCSE or A-Level may have been a struggle, so we offer support to improve this skill through your first year.
In addition, the University offers maths support through various training sessions held throughout the academic year.
You will learn a number of programming languages, depending on your degree.
For example, Computer science students will learn C++ while those in Engineering will learn C.
Depending on your chosen degree you may also learn Java, Python, or other additional programming languages.
You may also choose to learn additional techniques such as extreme programming or computer game programming, through modules related to specific degrees.
The 21st century workplace requires more than excellent coding and the ability to use a soldering iron.
Our courses are designed to help you develop the transferable skills that are needed for any career:
From writing reports and project updates to delivering presentations in seminars, you will develop written and oral communication skills and understand how to tailor your communications to different audiences.
Whatever your future career you will be expected to be able to successfully work as part of a team.
Throughout your degree you will work on group projects with your fellow students, which will help you understand how to collaborate with your peers to get the best out of everyone.
Your future employer will expect you to be able to manage your work with minimal supervision and complete tasks and projects in a timely manner.
You will learn to organise your work and be responsible for managing your own deadlines during your modules, from dates to hand in work to revising for your exams.
When creating code, a typo can be the difference between a working result or a jumble of nonsense.
But attention to detail is also an essential skill for many roles that don’t involve coding.
Your degree will help you spot small but important errors, a useful skill for many roles such as quality assurance or client management.
You don't need to have your future all planned out.
We offer a range of opportunities to build your CV, and gain valuable experience and expertise, including guidance on creating a start-up or becoming an entrepreneur, to ensure your career is on the right track for when you graduate.
In the final year of your undergraduate degree you will carry out a Capstone project.
You will work with an academic supervisor on a project that will often combine your field of study with a real-world issue.
Your project will demonstrate what you have learned throughout your degree, from identifying an appropriate methodology, to project management, design, construction and testing a system or solution, and reviewing and discussing your work with academics and other students.
At the end of the academic year our projects are showcased at our Project Open Day, to which we invite representatives from local and national organisations.
Some of our final year students have received job offers after this event, while others have made excellent networking connections.
Our Research Experience Scheme allows undergraduate and Masters degree students to gain additional experience in academic research through assisting in projects run by our expert staff.
The scheme gives students a hands-on insight into the process of research, from theory development and experiment design through to testing and data analysis.
Different opportunities are advertised throughout the year so students have a chance to hone their skills in an area of interest, or try something completely new.
The Career Mentoring Programme gives students a minimum of six hours mentoring with a mentor who is familiar with the field they are studying or looking to start their career in.
The Careers team aims to find the best match for you to help you get the best out of your mentor experience.
Through your mentor you can find out more about the career path you’re interested in, develop your professional skills, and discuss your plans with a knowledgeable person who can give insight and advice.
In the future you may also want to become a mentor yourself.
Being a mentor is a rewarding experience as you can help someone take their first steps in their career, and it can be a great volunteering opportunity to show on your CV or LinkedIn profile.
If you’ve got a business idea but aren’t sure where to start then you can tap in to the entrepreneurship support offered by our university.
Essex Startups is a team based at the university who help students and graduates take the first steps towards starting a business.
Throughout the year they run events such as bootcamps, workshops, and webinars that support and challenge participants to delve deeper into the business creation process.
They can also help you with identify funding opportunities, developing a funding application, and practice presenting your idea or business to potential investors.
The Breaking Barriers programme is aimed at students who are from low-income households, or who are the first in their family to attend university.
You will take part in activities throughout the academic year, culminating in an employer-based challenge in the summer term.
This programme will help you build your confidence, identify and articulate your skills and strengths for a work environment, and understand how to break down the barriers that could stop you fulfilling your potential.
Many of our undergraduate degrees can include a placement year or a study abroad year.
A placement year is an opportunity for you to spend a year applying what you’ve learned in the classroom to real workplaces.
With support from our School and the Student Development team you will identify and apply for opportunities advertised by organisations across the country.
If a whole year isn’t quite what you’re looking for then you will also have support looking for internships or shorter work experience sessions.
Similarly, a year abroad is a great way for you to expand your horizons and carry out a period of study in another institution.
If you have already studied a second language then you could try testing your skills in another country, but we also have partnerships in English-speaking countries including Australia and the USA.
Throughout the academic year the university’s Student Development team runs free events covering anything from skills development to employability.
Career support sessions can include: building an effective CV, job hunting, tackling job applications, standing out at interviews, and how to prepare for assessment centres.
These sessions can help you successfully navigate the transition into the working world or further study after you graduate.
The journeys they’ve taken, the opportunities they’ve experienced, the contacts they’ve made, and the variety of careers paths that have been embarked upon.
Our graduates have shared their stories with us, and now we get to share them with you.
Read more about CSEE graduate Benjamin Tilbury's experience as an intern with creative digital learning company Signals Media Ltd.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/computer-science-and-electronic-engineering:
From making businesses run smoothly to gaming and simulating behaviour, many everyday processes have a basis in computing, while advances in electronics have made the internet, innovative telecommunications and inexpensive computing possible.
At Essex we teach and research at Undergraduate , Masters and Postgraduate Research levels, in all these areas and more.
We have a variety of specialist facilities in the areas of brain-computer interfaces, robotics, embedded systems, lasers/photonics and networking, and a laboratory-based teaching and research Centre for Computational Finance and Economic Agents .
The School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering Research Experience Scheme gives undergraduate and Masters degree students opportunities to work with academics on research projects.
You'll be able to choose between focusing on research in our School, or work on a collaborative project with our colleagues in the Department of Psychology.
If you would like any more information about computer science and electronic engineering or have a question you would like to ask, please complete this short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/mathematics-statistics-and-actuarial-science/careers:
Whether your focus is on mathematics or data , you will find that your skills are in demand in sectors across the world.
From engineering to health, and finance to marketing, your degree can lead to exciting careers in fields you might not have considered.
During your time with us you will receive employability support through our Employability and Careers modules, and our university offers additional events and programmes run by our Careers teams and Student Development Department.
The UK public sector comprises a broad range of government departments and non-ministerial organisations.
It includes local government (county councils and London borough councils), major public bodies like the NHS, and departments based around the country such as HMRC (based in Newcastle) and the Office for National Statistics (based in Newport, Wales).
Graduates with a mathematical degree are in high demand across the public sector.
Depending on the career and the school you may find that a specific degree is needed, or that you need to complete certain modules (such as statistics) during your degree.
For some roles you may find that you need additional qualifications in auditing or accountancy, membership of a particular professional body, or a Masters degree in a “highly numerate subject”.
The Civil Service Fast Stream is a paid professional development programme that helps graduates develop the skills needed for senior leadership roles within the Civil Service.
There are fifteen different schemes of varying durations and starting salaries, and may require you to have a specific degree in order to qualify.
For example the Diplomatic and Development Scheme lasts for 2 years and requires a minimum of a 2:2 degree but doesn’t specify a subject, while both the Government Statistical Service and Government Operational Research Service require a 2.1 in a “highly numerate” subject, or a 2.2 and a postgraduate degree in a subject such as mathematics or statistics.
Applying for the Fast Stream is highly competitive but you can apply again if you are unsuccessful first time round.
Starting salary on Fast Stream can be around £31,000 a year, but on successfully completing your scheme you can be eligible for roles ranging from £45,000 to £55,000 a year (and up to £60,000 on some schemes).
The UK has a shortage of qualified mathematics teachers.
Students who have a poor learning experience at GCSE level are less likely to study a subject at degree level, which exacerbates this issue.
The Mathematics Teacher Training Scholarships programme is run by the Institute of Mathematics and Its Applications , with support from bodies such as the London Mathematical Society and the Royal Statistical Society.
The programme aims to encourage more graduates to move into teaching by offering a government-funded bursary of £31,000 for those undertaking teacher training.
You may find that the amount of money offered and the requirements for applicants changes each year.
You may need a specific degree grade (such as a 2:1) or a postgraduate degree in a highly numerate subject in order to qualify.
Graduates in mathematics and data analytics are in high demand in the private sector.
The prevalence of technology and data science in the 21st century means that companies need staff who are experienced in developing, assessing and supporting these areas.
The Third Sector covers roles in organisations that don’t sit in the public or private sectors.
It includes charities, non-profit organisations, community groups, and NGOs.
Some senior roles, whether in the private or public sectors, can require a Masters degree for you to be an eligible candidate.
A Masters degree can allow you to specialise in a particular area, such as operational research, or undertake broader study through a Masters in mathematics or data science.
If you already know you will need a Masters degree for your chosen career then one of our integrated Masters degrees in data science or mathematics will give you a direct route in to postgraduate study.
Many Masters degrees can be taken part-time to fit around other commitments.
They can be a great way to brush up your skills after a career break, or help you change career.
If you enjoy the discovery and research side of your undergraduate degree then you could look at continuing your education further with a research degree such as a PhD.
Not only can a PhD be a step towards an academic career, but some senior research and development roles in private organisations also require a PhD, opening up still further possibilities.
To support graduates thinking of further study we have several integrated PhD options.
An integrated PhD gives you one year studying at Masters level before moving straight into a PhD.
You have a chance to build a relationship with your PhD supervisor, gain experience relevant to your field of research, and begin to develop the research skills that you will need to successfully carry out your PhD.
Your degree will teach you essential specialist skills for a range of jobs.
These skills can include:
There is always some overlap between our degrees, for example students studying data analysis will have opportunities to study areas of pure mathematics, while mathematics students will encounter aspects of statistics.
This means that you will develop a broad skillset on top of a deep understanding of your chosen specialism.
Whichever career path you take, you will be expected to hold a collection of transferable “soft skills”.
While these are not specialist or technical, they are still extremely important for career success.
Some of the transferable skills you will develop throughout your studies include:
In the final year of your undergraduate degree you will complete a Capstone project in which you will apply your mathematical skills and knowledge to solve a problem or issue identified by your supervisor.
Your Capstone project will showcase the skills you have developed throughout your undergraduate studies.
You will write up your project in a final report and deliver an oral presentation, evidencing your communication skills and ability to tailor your work to different audiences.
A core component of all our degrees is our Mathematics Careers and Employability module.
This module guides our students through the process of employment.
They work with their personal tutors to consider their potential career paths, understand the skills they are developing through their degree, and identify any extracurricular activities or work placements they need that will give them the experience needed to help them find employment in their chosen field.
By the end of their final year, students have a personal portfolio that they can use to fill out job applications and refer to in job interviews.
They will know how to find the job vacancies suitable for them, how to plan their career and work out their next steps, and how to tailor their CV to different roles.
We know that for many students, particularly those who are first in the family, working out how a degree can help you in employment can be difficult.
This module helps students gain a greater awareness of the skills they are developing through their degree and demystifies the process of job hunting for highly skilled and specialised roles.
Many of our undergraduate degrees can include a placement year option.
After successfully completing your second year you will spend a year working in a relevant organisation before returning to study your final year at our university.
Students will identify and apply for the placements that are suitable for them, with support from our school and the university’s careers team.
A placement year is a great opportunity for students to test out their chosen career and gain significant work experience that looks great on their CV.
Some of our students have successfully gained fulltime employment with their placement organisation after graduation while others have used the skills and professional network developed to find similar roles in other companies.
For those who don’t want to undertake a year-long break from their degree the university can help you find shorter periods of work experience .
The Essex Interns team works with companies who do not have their own established intern schemes, such as small businesses and local charities, to widen the pool of available opportunities for Essex students.
These internships are paid at least the National Minimum Wage and can range from part-time roles during term time to full-time opportunities during holidays and after graduation.
Any of these opportunities will give you experience in a professional work environment and help you put your new skills to practice.
You’ll get feedback and guidance on your work and may be able to evidence your projects during job interviews.
Many of our undergraduate degrees can include a year abroad with a partner institution.
As with our placement year option, after successfully finishing your second year you will spend the following academic year abroad at your chosen institution, before returning to Essex for your final year.
We have partnerships with institutions across the globe, from Australia and China to Canada and Uruguay, and in European countries such as Spain, France, and Switzerland.
Many of our partners offer modules taught in English so you still have options if you aren’t fluent in a second language.
A year abroad can help you gain a global outlook, improve your professional network, and give you opportunities to study your subject under the guidance of other academic experts.
It can also give you alternative experiences that you can refer to in job interviews, highlighting your ability to adapt to new situations and circumstances.
If you don’t want to spend a whole year abroad then we also offer summer abroad schemes such as joining in with an overseas summer school, or volunteering or undertaking an internship abroad with a charity or non-profit organisation.
Rather than pursue a traditional career path, some graduates look to start their own business.
At the university support for entrepreneurial students is led by the Essex Startups team .
You can take part in events such as 1:1 advice sessions to help you discuss your idea and work out how to structure your business, workshops and webinars on aspects such as marketing and finding funding, and bootcamps that give you space and support to create your business plan.
Our Colchester Campus is also home to the University Enterprise Zone and the Innovation Centre , where you can receive business mentoring and support, access office space, and join in networking and other events held on-site.
If you want to brush up on a few skills or learn something completely new then you can take part in a range of events and workshops run by university teams such as Library Services , the Student Development Department, or Careers Services .
These events take place throughout the academic year and can include technical and soft skills, such as using certain aspects of Microsoft Excel, creating your CV, and referencing and plagiarism.
Special events are also held for Masters and research degree students, but all are open to students regardless of degree or department.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/mathematics-statistics-and-actuarial-science:
With specialisms including pure and applied mathematics, data science, statistics, and actuarial science, maths at Essex has a broad reach.
From exploring the economic impact of cow social networks to the mathematical modelling of brain evolution to improve patient care; from solving scheduling problems at the Port of Felixstowe to leading the data revolution at the heart of London’s “Tech City” and the University’s pioneering work on Big Data – our research explores issues that have a real impact on people’s everyday lives and the world around us.
This was recognised in the recent Research Excellence Framework, with 92.3% of our mathematical sciences research output recognised as world-leading or internationally excellent ( REF 2021 ).
Maths graduates are always in demand due to the wide range of employers seeking their highly valued skills.
Our degrees in mathematics , statistics, actuarial science and data science provide you with a fantastic platform to enter a range of interesting sectors .
As a growing and influential school, we still make sure our staff and students know each other personally – we are a true academic family.
Whether you study at undergraduate , postgraduate or research degree level, you graduate with the Essex mindset that maths is far more than an academic discipline: maths is everywhere.
We are based in the university's new STEM Centre in the heart of Colchester campus.
With our open door policy, collaborative workspace for students, and excellent staff-student relations, we pride ourselves on our reputation as a friendly and open school.
Our Advisory Board draws on expertise from industry and our research staff to inform our courses.
We also collaborate with business on Knowledge Transfer Partnerships .
Skilled mathematicians and data scientists are in demand across the globe.
Read our graduate stories and find out more about the doors a degree can open for you.
If you would like any more information about maths or have a question you would like to ask, please complete this short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/health-and-social-care/careers:
You may feel that a healthcare degree will mean you can only work in a hospital, or that a social work qualification will only lead to jobs with local authorities.
But health and social care jobs can be found in all sectors.
Your nursing qualification could lead to a role helping private sector employees return to work after a period of serious illness, or a degree in speech and language therapy could enable you to support someone with a head injury to learn to swallow again.
Working in oral health as a hygienist or dental therapist can also take you outside of your dental practice – you could visit schools as part of preventative and advice programmes.
Social work staff hold roles with charities that help individuals from marginalised communities access essential services, while occupational therapy graduates can support injured service personnel during their physical rehabilitation.
Clinical Psychologists are likely to work in hospitals, community settings, schools and prisons, as well as alongside Psychological Wellbeing Practitioners in delivering IAPT services in locations such as healthcare centres, or community venues likes libraries and leisure centres.
Further education such as a postgraduate degree or a Continuing Professional Development module can help you move into more specialised roles in your chosen career path.
For many health and social care graduates the most obvious careers paths involve joining an NHS Foundation Trust, or the social work department for a Local Authority.
However, the public sector covers a broad collection of large and small government bodies.
This means that there are other employment opportunities for graduates that let you use your skills and experience in other ways.
Some public sector roles you would be suitable for include:
You may think that the private sector has little to offer someone who wants to work in healthcare or in a social work setting.
But roles that require experience in areas of healthcare and social work can be found in plenty of companies and organisations outside of the public sector.
These roles use the same skills you would need for professional practice but put them to use in different ways or to give different results.
Some of the roles you will find that align with your experience are:
The “third sector” is a term used to describe organisations that fall outside the scope of the public and private sectors.
It includes charities, community interest companies, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), and social enterprises and co-operatives.
Third sector roles are often advertised through specific online platforms that focus on charity jobs.
You may find that the experience and skills required, even for very similar-sounding roles, varies significantly.
Some of the jobs you will find in the Third Sector include:
The successful completion of Continuing Professional Development modules can lead to you moving into more specialist roles where you work with patients with specific health concerns.
You could become a diabetes nurse, helping patients monitor and manage their conditions to help prevent further health issues in the future.
Or you might focus on dementia and learn how to support patients with a range of symptoms and help their families navigate the process of diagnosis and symptom management.
If you are an international student or if you’re thinking of emigrating in the future, then you may find that your healthcare or social care qualification enables you to take up paid employment in another country without further education.
Some professional bodies in the UK have reciprocal agreements in place with their counterparts abroad.
These agreements mean that both countries recognise that the teaching and skills learned are of a similar professional level and quality, and that graduates from one country can work in the other country without further study.
These agreements can change so you need to review any information very carefully and ensure you are up to date on the latest guidelines and requirements.
You can often find the most up to date information on the website for the professional registration body for the country you are moving to.
You can also email these bodies for more information if you have specific queries.
Alternatively, you may find that your undergraduate degree doesn’t get you quite the same role in another country, but a postgraduate course will make you more suitable.
You may also need to pass some exams to demonstrate your language fluency and numeracy skills before you can register as a professional in your new country.
If you are a registered professional in the UK and plan to return after working abroad then you should also check what steps you will need to take in order to retain your UK registration.
All the undergraduate degrees offered by our School are practical by nature.
In order to practise the skills you learn in the classroom, all our degrees include a series of placements in relevant organisations.
We know that a well-rounded education involves giving you diverse workplace experiences.
Our placements team have partnerships with a range of organisations in the East of England, so you will have opportunities to work with clients and patients in different settings and from different backgrounds.
Some of our degrees can involve a year studying abroad in a partner institution.
Spending a year abroad can be a great way for you to expand your world view and experience healthcare or social work in an alternative setting.
You will develop your skills under the supervision of other experts, learn more about best practice in other countries and cultures, and expand your linguistic skills.
If you don’t speak a second language then don’t worry!
We have partnerships with institutions in English-speaking countries including Canada and Australia.
Throughout the year our School organises talks with a range of guest speakers who are experts in their field.
This can range from small seminar discussions with members of our Service Users Research Group (SURG), to our Dean’s Lecture which has included Emeritus Professor Dame Elizabeth Anionwu as a speaker.
A core part of a healthcare or social care degree is building advocacy and empathy by introducing students to experiences, backgrounds and cultures that they may not be familiar with.
Our guest speakers have a depth and breadth of different experiences that can help how you view your professional practice and contribute to your understanding of how advocate for others appropriately.
You may end up discussing individual patient experiences or learn more about the development of healthcare services, and how partnerships across disciplines can create positive outcomes.
Our School hosts an annual staff-student research conference which brings together academics and postgraduate research students to discuss their latest research and promote collaborations.
We encourage our research students to take an active part in the conference by participating in talks and presenting their own work in a poster session.
Along with encouraging networking skills the conference also gives participants an opportunity to learn more about aspects of health and social care outside of their own areas and promotes interdisciplinary practice across the sector.
Students across the university have access to the Languages for All programme.
This gives students a chance to learn a language for a year alongside their degree, free of charge.
The languages and levels offered can depend on the campus you are studying on, or on the staff that are available in a particular year.
As a health and social care student you will be working with patients and clients who may not have English as a first language.
Even if you learn the basics and are unable to take your studies further, being able to greet someone in their own language can help develop a positive relationship.
Alternatively, if you are thinking of moving abroad for work in the future then taking a language course while you study can give you a foundation to build on as part of your plans to relocate.
The Essex Students’ Union is home to a broad collection of student-run societies , from cultural and activity societies through to departmental and political and representation groups.
As a student in a health or social care degree you may be interested in societies such as nursing, occupational therapy, speech and language therapy, social work and social justice, physiotherapy, and St John Ambulance.
Societies are open to all students and organise various activities throughout the year.
They are run by student volunteers, so you can run for a committee position and develop your organisation and leadership skills through one of these roles.
Many societies will accept members based on interest rather than the course they're on, so nursing students with an interest in patient communication can join the speech and language therapy society, while social work students could join the sociology society.
MSc Speech and Language Therapy graduates Erika Mangialardi and Sarah Murphy look at how the pandemic led to them taking an innovative new approach to supporting patients with aphasia, and the contributions made by SLT students through placements.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/health-and-social-care:
Organised health and social care is one of the greatest achievements of the 20th century, made possible by the vision and dedication of the professionals who staff it.
We prepare you to join that inspirational workforce as a caring, compassionate and competent professional who shares our commitment to improving lives.
We offer courses across undergraduate , Masters and research degree level, as well as Continuing Professional Development for those enhancing their skills, and apprenticeships for those who wish to work and learn at the same time.
We are at the forefront of preparing people to solve real-life issues in health and society, offering courses that both commissioners and employers believe in.
People are at the heart of all we do.
We work in partnership with people from all walks of life, who offer us their expertise and experience, making us a team of people who truly understand what is needed from health and social care professionals – now and in the future.
Got mettle, zeal and bold ambition?
Got a heart of gold?
Thrive on advocating for others?
We encourage multidisciplinary working and have a reputation for being at the forefront of training high-quality health care professionals.
If you've got the drive to explore the unknown, we've got the expertise.
We specialise in applied, multi-disciplinary research that addresses local, national and international issues relating to health and social care policy and practice, and other related fields.
If you would like any more information about health and social care or have a question you would like to ask, please complete this short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/life-sciences/careers:
Life sciences degrees cover a broad area of the natural world and medical fields, from marine ecosystems and environmental biology to biomedical science, biochemistry and genetics.
This means that a degree in a life sciences subject can lead to an exciting range of careers.
Graduates with life sciences degrees are in high demand across the world, a demand that has been significantly increased by the Covid-19 pandemic and the urgent need to tackle climate change.
Depending on which subject you study you may find that you secure a career involving travel around the world to assess and protect marine environments, in a specialist lab using cutting-edge equipment to develop vaccines or treatments for cancer and other diseases, or meeting the challenges in the biotechnology sector for sustainable production of everyday commodities.
Any degree in our School will furnish you with a range of skills that have utility across all fields of work.
You will become adept at explaining difficult concepts to novice audiences via report writing, data interpretation, and oral presentations.
You will learn to think critically, approach problems logically, and work as a team on solutions.
These are skills that any workplace would benefit from.
Careers in the public sector are numerous and varied.
Along with central government departments there are also governmental bodies and institutions that are publicly-funded but cover more specialist areas of interest.
Public sector roles suitable for our life sciences graduates include:
For some career paths progression may need you to carry out further education at postgraduate level, such as a Masters degree or a PhD .
Postgraduate degrees can be an essential requirement for more senior and specialist roles as they require more specific demonstrable expertise in your field of interest.
Senior roles can include:
The Fast Stream is the UK Civil Service graduate development scheme.
There are seventeen different streams available to graduates at varying levels, for example the Digital stream only requires an undergraduate degree, while the Science and Engineering stream requires a high undergraduate qualification as well as a postgraduate degree in one of the sciences.
Successful candidates will start on an annual salary around £31,000 a year.
On completing your chosen scheme you’ll be eligible for roles with starting salaries of £45,000 to £55,000 a year.
There are a host of private sector organisations that welcome employees who have a life sciences degree.
While pharmaceutical companies may seem like the obvious choice, employment can also be found with publishers, aquariums, water companies, and food provision organisations.
Roles include:
The private sector also contains many senior roles that are suitable for candidates with a Masters or research degree .
In some cases, a postgraduate degree will be an essential requirement for the role.
These jobs can include:
The Third sector is a term used for organisations and bodies that fall outside the scope of public sector and private sector, such as NGOs, charities, and community initiatives.
The broad scope of the Third sector means that there are many interesting and varied roles available to those who have completed a life sciences degree.
You may find that you can apply your knowledge of marine ecosystems to fundraising campaigns for environmental charities, or that your experiences with biomedical science make you ideally placed to manage projects for charities researching medical issues.
Some examples of roles you can find in the Third Sector are:
For some biomedical science graduates their undergraduate study can open the door to a medical degree.
Your biomedical degree gives you a grounding in human physiology, immunology, and virology that can help with your application and show your commitment to this field.
Our School supports your pursuit of a medical career through practice interviews, advice on how to apply, and how to tailor your degree to help give you the experience to progress into medicine.
Our graduates have progressed to study medicine at institutions including King’s College London, and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry.
The future of life sciences depends on children gaining an excellent grounding in the subject through their GCSEs and A-Levels.
If you like the idea of educating future generations about the life sciences then a career in teaching may be suitable for you.
Bursaries of up to £26,000 are available for those who want to train to teach biology at secondary school level.
The amount offered for bursaries can change each year and you may need a specific degree classification (such as a 1st or a 2:1) to qualify.
Throughout your degree you will develop a set of specialist skills that will be essential to a career in your chosen field.
Along with technical and scientific skills, your career will require a collection of transferable skills that will be applicable in any career path.
Some of the transferable skills that you will learn throughout your degree include:
Alumna turned researcher in our School of Life Sciences, Dr Liv Grant takes everything you think you know about scientists and turns it on its head.
In her own words, here’s Liv’s story…
Our range of degrees means that our graduates can have very different directions for their careers.
As a result, we have created unique employability modules for our degrees, which give you tailored information relating to your future career plans.
Whatever your specialism, these employability modules will help you plan out your next steps.
The modules will help you identify your skills and how to articulate them in job applications.
We invite guest speakers and alumni to talk about types of careers, or provide guidance on some of the organisations and environments that you can work in.
These modules are designed to not only support you in finding your first job after graduation, but help you understand how to successfully find employment in specialist fields.
The skills and experience you develop during your degree can help you gain roles in specialist career paths.
But identifying suitable roles and companies can be difficult for students, especially those who are the first in their family to attend university.
Our School organises a range of careers events throughout the academic year that help students identify career paths and potential employers.
These events range from small workshops with guest speakers, to one day career fairs and employability days with talks from alumni and representatives from multiple organisations.
Throughout your degree there will be opportunities to work closely with our academics in their fields of expertise.
Some of these are organised through university-based schemes, while others may be funded opportunities through organisations such as the Genetics Society.
Our academic staff carry out funded research projects utilising facilities in our School.
Assistance is often needed to help set up experiments, collect data, cultivate samples, and process results.
Taking part in this work helps you develop your skills in a research setting and gives you an insight into the process of academic research.
It can also give you experience that you can refer to in job applications and interviews.
In your first year you will work on a project devised by one of our partner organisations.
This project will be relevant to your degree (e.g., biomedical science, biochemistry, marine biology etc) and will involve working in groups with your peers.
These projects are designed to give you a head start in understanding how life sciences organisations work and the projects you could carry out in a future career.
It helps develop your scientific skills, lets you experience teamwork in a professional capacity, and gives you connections that can be useful in your future work.
We have several options for students who want to use work placements to enhance their CV and gain experience before graduation.
Many of our degrees offer a placement year .
After successfully completing your second year you will spend the following academic year work in a relevant organisation, before returning to the university for your final year of studies.
The School and the Careers team will support you in identifying and applying for placements.
This includes help with tailoring your CV or practicing for interviews.
Our BSc Applied Biomedical Science includes a year with the NHS working in a laboratory approved by the Institute of Biomedical Sciences.
Many of our biomedical science graduates move into NHS careers after graduation, and this year in placement will give you experience of working within the organisation and help you gain an understanding of career paths within the healthcare sector.
Your work in this placement will give you a portfolio of assessed work that will count towards your HCPC registration after graduation.
The Essex Interns scheme helps students and recent graduates find paid internships with companies that do not have their own work experience schemes.
These internships can be carried out part-time to fit around your timetable or full-time during the holidays.
Many of our degrees offer an opportunity to spend a year living and studying abroad at a partner institution.
A year abroad is a great way for you to broaden your horizons, experience life in a different culture, and practice your language skills.
But if you’re not fluent in a second language you can still find partnerships in English-speaking countries such as Canada and New Zealand.
If you don’t want to spend a whole year abroad then there are also opportunities to spend the summer abroad through volunteering with summer schools or with international charities and organisations, such as those focusing on marine conservation.
If you know that your career path will require a postgraduate qualification, then our integrated MSc courses may be a suitable option.
The Integrated Masters degrees are a four-year degree.
After successfully completing your undergraduate studies, you will automatically progress into a final year at Postgraduate Taught level, without needing to reapply to the School or seek academic references.
Continuing your Masters degree with our School means that you can continue to study in a familiar environment, with the same expert staff who you have already been working with at undergraduate level.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/life-sciences:
Our world is facing huge challenges.
But biology provides reasons to be optimistic about our future.
In the School of Life Sciences we’re working to tackle the global challenges of the 21st century.
By uncovering the causes of cancer and neurodegenerative diseases we can help create novel therapies and medications.
By understanding the impact of pollution on marine ecosystems and the biology behind the production and consumption of gases, we tackle issues such as climate change.
Through our work on crop genetics we can reduce global food insecurity.
In our School we focus on a One-Health approach to the life sciences.
From genes to ecosystems, we teach and research the connections between all aspects of life on earth, from microbes, plants and animals to human and planetary health.
Our research covers the spectrum of biology.
Whether you want to learn how to conserve our natural resources, discover new ways to treat disease, or learn about the fundamentals of living organisms, you will be taught by inspirational lecturers who bring their knowledge straight from the research laboratory into the classroom.
We will nurture your skills, knowledge, and understanding, to help you shape the future and improve human and planetary health.
Ready to join us?

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/psychology/careers:
Do you imagine a standard 9-5 at a computer?
How about a career where you make a positive impact to people's lives?
Your psychology degree will equip you with advanced understanding of human behaviour, making you an excellent candidate for people-focused roles.
Your knowledge of psychology and skills in scientific reasoning, problem-solving, and analysis will open up opportunities to a broad range of careers across all sectors.
Throughout your degree, you will have opportunities to take part in work experience (including a year in a work placement), hone your skills and CV through training sessions and volunteering arranged by our University, and get hands-on with projects offered by our Research Experience Scheme .
Completing our accredited psychology degree is the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
The British Psychological Society states that after your undergraduate degree you need to undertake an accredited postgraduate degree and further training or successfully carry out doctoral psychology research.
There are several areas that you can specialise in as a Chartered Psychologist:
If you want to improve people’s psychological wellbeing but aren’t able to commit to the Chartered Psychologist pathway, then a career in counselling could be a good option.
The British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) offers a range of courses that can lead to a qualification in counselling, or you could consider an accredited postgraduate degree such as a Masters degree.
Counsellors use psychological theory in therapeutic contexts to help clients (e.g., young people, families, couples) with challenging personal issues and mental health difficulties, including domestic violence, relationship difficulties, depression, and psychosis.
The private sector covers privately owned businesses and organisations, from start-ups and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to multi-national corporations.
Your psychology degree will equip you with advanced understanding of human behaviour, making you an excellent candidate for people-focused role.
in the private sector while retaining the flexibility to move between organisations.
The third sector covers diverse organisations, from Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and international charities, to local community interest groups and social enterprises.
If you want a job where you will have a positive impact on people’s lives then the third sector could be an ideal next step.
The public sector is one of the UKs biggest employers.
It includes the governments of Scotland and Wales, local government bodies such as county councils, central government departments including the Cabinet Office and Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, and non-Ministerial bodies from the NHS to the Intellectual Property Office.
Psychology graduates have a collection of skills that make them suitable for a broad range of jobs in the public sector.
The Civil Service Fast Stream is a professional development programme that trains graduates for senior leadership roles in government departments.
There are seventeen different schemes which range from two to five years of training, with a starting salary around £31,000 a year.
Schemes have different requirements for qualification type and subject.
The Diplomatic and Development Scheme requires a 2:2 in any subject, while the Government Statistical Service requires at 2:1 undergraduate degree, or a postgraduate degree, in a subject that includes taught statistical content such as psychology .
Successfully completing the Fast Stream will make you eligible for roles in public sector departments where you could be earning between £45,000 and £55,000 a year, with up to £62,000 for some specialist roles.
A psychology degree is useful for working in Special Educational Needs (SEN) settings such as specialist teaching centres for young people with autism, or mainstream schools that require one-on-one support for learning difficulties such as dyslexia.
To work in SEN you will need Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), which you can gain by completing a teacher training course , or by working as a Teaching Assistant before moving onto a Straight to Teaching programme.
Once you have QTS you can apply for SEN roles.
Alternatively, you can undertake a Masters degree in a specialist area such as Inclusive Education.
Qualified teachers can also work as a Special Educational Needs Co-Ordinator (SENCO), with a requirement to complete a National award in Special Educational Needs Coordination within three years.
SENCO roles focus on organising and managing SEN provision for pupils, ensuring that they receive appropriate support.
As part of your degree, you will learn a collection of specialist skills that will be suitable for your future career.
We teach these skills through direct application to specific problems and concepts within psychology, so you will understand how they will be applied across a multitude of roles.
Some of the specialist skills that you will develop through your degree include:
In addition to specialist scientific skills your degree also helps you further enhance a range of transferable skills that you will have started to develop at school, such as:
If you know that your future career path will require a Masters degree, then you could undertake one of our Integrated Masters degrees.
You will spend a minimum of four years in our department, plus an extra year if you take a year abroad or a placement year.
The first three years will cover your undergraduate degree, which you will study as a standard Bachelor’s degree.
After your final undergraduate year, you will move straight into your postgraduate taught year.
You will not need to reapply to join our department, nor will you need to seek academic references.
Continuing your studies with us means that you can carry out further learning and research in a familiar environment, with the same academics you have built relationships with over the previous three years.
We operate a Research Experience Scheme which is open to all undergraduate and Masters degree students in our department.
Throughout the academic year we advertise opportunities to take part in academic-led research projects.
You will assist in a range of research tasks, such as setting up experiments and collating data, recruiting participants, or reviewing relevant papers.
The Research Experience Scheme is a great way to help develop your research skills in advance of your final project.
It can also give you an insight into the process of academic research if you’re considering postgraduate study or an academic career path.
Our department also runs our Socials, Hospitality, and OUTreach Scheme .
This scheme runs for 8 weeks in a term and requires minimal time commitment (normally no more than 5 hours per week) so it can fit in around your timetable.
As part of SHOUTS, you will work within a small team on projects that promote and showcase our work and department.
Projects vary from term to term, but can include helping run social media accounts, contributing to the departmental newsletter, or helping promote or manage events run by the department.
You will gain experience in teamwork, project management, and communication (including digital communication), while learning more about aspects such as outreach, research promotion, and how to develop engagement and impact with different audiences.
Throughout your degree you will take part in employability modules that have been designed to give you an insight into the process of job hunting, and identifying and developing your professional skills.
These modules are run through a combination of lectures and workshops, held in collaboration between department staff, the university Careers team, and guest speakers.
You will learn how to identify a career pathway, what skills and experience you need to succeed at applications, how to tailor your CV and personal statement to each job, and how to make the most of opportunities such as postgraduate study.
We know that for many students, particularly those who are the first in their family to attend university, the graduate job market can appear difficult to navigate.
These employability modules help demystify the process and help you find the right path for you.
Psychology is naturally a very diverse subject.
Our experiences during our lifetimes impact us all in different ways.
As a result, you will be given opportunities to tailor your degree to your interests with some optional modules in your first year and your final year of studies.
For example, if you know that you want to work with children with Special Educational Needs then you may choose modules that focus on child development or neurodiversity, or if you want to continue a research path then you can take modules that have a strong emphasis on statistics or programming.
In your undergraduate first year we also offer some optional modules outside our department.
These may change from year to year, but generally involve related departments such as the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering , the Department of Sociology and Criminology , and Essex Business School .
If you are concerned about a lack of detail on your CV come graduation time then taking part in a placement year or finding some relevant work experience during the holidays could help you bridge that gap.
Many of our degrees include an option to pause your studies for a year in order to carry out a work placement in a relevant organisation or field.
This takes place after your second year, and once you have completed your placement you will return to the university for your final year of undergraduate study.
With support from the university Careers team and our department, you will identify and apply for placement year opportunities with external organisations.
You will gain valuable work experience that you can add to your CV and may be able to use a contact as a reference when applying for jobs.
If you don’t want to spend a whole year away from your studies then you can look for more flexible work experience opportunities, especially during the summer break.
Along with standard internships offered by large, established organisations, you could find suitable opportunities through Essex Interns .
Managed by the university, Essex Interns helps connect small and medium businesses with no formal internship schemes with students looking for work experience.
The University also offers paid employment opportunities for students on our campuses, such as our Student Ambassadors who help represent the university at events on campus.
If you are interested in travelling abroad and studying in a different country, then our study abroad year may be suitable for you.
After completing your second year of studies, you will spend an academic year abroad studying your subject in one of our partner institutions.
You will then return to Essex for the final year of your degree.
Studying abroad is a fantastic way to expand your horizons and live in a different culture.
If you are fluent in or wish to study a second language, then you can look for institutions in a country that speaks your preferred language.
But we also have partnerships with English-speaking countries including Australia and the USA.
Some psychology graduates use their skills and experience to start their own company, for example working in HR consultancy or running their own counselling service.
Our university can support you on the path to entrepreneurship.
Throughout the year business start-up events, such as boot camps or elevator pitches, are run by the Essex Start-ups team.
You will also have access to events and support through our Innovation Centre and the University Enterprise Zone .
Both the department and the wider university offer mentoring schemes for students.
Our department has a peer-to-peer mentoring scheme that focuses on helping first year students settle into the department and their studies.
Typically, mentors will be second year or final year students who can help guide new students through the first period of their time at Essex.
This can range from understanding essay feedback or how to find your way around campus, to sharing your experience of applying for a placement year or signposting resources offered by other university teams.
Peer mentors are managed by the department and full training is offered to those who wish to volunteer.
Acting as a mentor can be a good experience to have on your CV as it displays skills around co-operation and leadership.
The university runs a career mentoring scheme that is designed to help students understand more about potential careers and the process of job applications for graduate roles.
Mentors are often alumni but can also be volunteers from the local community.
Through a series of meetings (6 meetings of 1 hour each) you can discuss your career aspirations, review your CV to identify gaps, or ask questions about interviews or assessment centres.
Gaining this outside perspective of your planned career can give you a real boost when it comes to applying for jobs as you will have a greater understanding of how the graduate employment market works.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/sport-rehabilitation-and-exercise-sciences/careers:
Our degrees in sport and exercise science, sport coaching, sport psychology, strength and conditioning , sport therapy and physiotherapy will equip you with a host of industry-ready technical and transferrable skills that are necessary for achieving your professional ambitions, regardless of the destination.
You will also have the opportunity to fuel your passion(s) through “hands-on” work experience via our placement , study abroad and enrichment initiatives.
SRES graduates continue to obtain highly sought after roles within the sport, health and exercise industry, including establishing careers as personal trainers, sport performance analysts, sport coaches, physiotherapists and more.
In recent years, our graduates have obtained roles at prestigious organisations, such as Leicester Tigers Rugby Club, Ipswich Town FC, West Ham United FC and The Abbeyfields Clinic.
Our excellent degree programmes will support you to expand your professional horizons by preparing you to thrive in several booming sectors, such as:
With 85% of our biological and sport sciences undergraduate graduates in employment or further study (Graduate Outcomes 2025), our graduates have moved on to careers in a range of organisations and sectors.
In the stories featured here, our graduates talk about their time with Essex and where their degrees have taken them since they finished their studies.
In this blog post BSc Sports Performance and Coaching student Ben Mendrys talks about how his freelance work as a personal trainer combined with one his modules to give him a start-up business idea.
Your chosen field will require you to have a range of technical skills that you will be able to apply to your career.
Some of these may be specific to a certain field, such as physiotherapy and sports therapy,  but others will be common across all degrees and tailored to your field.
Your degree is more than the technical skills you learn in the classroom.
There are a collection of transferable skills that are essential in all careers, whether you stick to a sports science or rehabilitation track or choose to move into something else.
The skills you will learn in your degree will include:
One way to build up your experience is to take part in volunteering activities.
Our School has a range of volunteering opportunities that our students can choose to take part in.
Staff running our physiotherapy and sports therapy courses arrange for a group of student volunteers to attend athletic events such as the London Marathon and the Colchester Half.
With supervision from academics, students taking part will work with runners at the finish line to provide sports massages or exercise guidance to reduce the risk or impact of an injury.
Our School also has connections with local sports teams, such as non-league football clubs and school holiday groups.
As a volunteer you may be managing activities for school children or helping coach youth players in a grassroots team.
We also run the Human Performance Unit , based on Colchester campus, where students can volunteer to assist with outreach sessions with schools.
All these opportunities mean you can build up experience and apply the knowledge you gain from the classroom into real situations, while making a positive impact in a local community.
Many of our graduates move into self-employment or decide to set up and run their own business, such as a sports therapy clinic.
This may be a common step in your field of interest, or if you’re an international student then perhaps you have already spotted a gap in the market in your home country.
Throughout your degree you can study modules on self-employment and entrepreneurship.
You will learn how to write a business plan, how to look and apply for funding, and understand some of the hidden aspects that you may be unaware of, such as potential legal issues or how to hire and manage staff.
You can also take advantage of start-up events offered by the university, and facilities such as the Innovation Centre .
There are a broad collection of additional qualifications that you can undertake through professional organisations and sporting bodies, from first aid through to youth coaching badges.
Our School can support you in identifying and successfully completing relevant qualifications that may be helpful for you in finding work in your field.
Some of these may already be built into your degree.
For example, all BSc Sports Therapy students complete a first aid course in their first year, while BSc Sports Performance and Coaching students choose to qualify in either a Level 1 in football or an NCFE Level 2 Certificate in the Principles and Preparation for Coaching Sport.
Support offered by our School includes helping you identify volunteer opportunities to gain experience or a requisite number of hours with a team, identifying and accessing relevant reading materials, or access to facilities outside of lectures.
A work placement allows students to put their academic studies in to practice in a supportive environment, gain essential experience, and begin to build a professional network of contacts in your field.
Sports therapy and physiotherapy are practical courses by nature.
Placements are built into these courses across undergraduate and postgraduate taught levels, as real-life experience is an essential part of your training for these roles.
For these degrees your placements will be arranged through the School and will be allocated to give you professional experience in a range of settings.
Many of our other undergraduate degrees also let you undertake a placement year during your time at Essex.
After successfully completing your second year, you will take a year to work in a relevant organisation, such as a football team or our Human Performance Unit .
You will then return to the School to complete your final year and graduate.
Our School and the university’s careers team will support you to identify and apply for suitable placement opportunities, review your CV or application, and practice for interviews or assessments.
Our students have undertaken placements at a range of sports clubs, including Tottenham Hotspur FC.
Many of our degrees can include a year studying abroad at one of our partner organisations.
Studying abroad brings a host of benefits.
You can experience a new culture, expand your linguistic skills, build a network of international contacts, and be taught by other experts in your field.
We have partnerships with organisations across the globe, including the USA, Australia, and European countries such as the Netherlands and France.
But if spending a year abroad isn’t for you, then our summer abroad opportunities may be more suitable.
These range from summer schools through to volunteering, or even taking part in an internship that lets you gain work experience and travel overseas.
In your final year you will complete a research project which will showcase the skills you have developed through your degree and enhance your understanding of the research process in your field and the ethical considerations around your field.
With support from your academic supervisor, you will identify a problem or area related to your degree specialisation.
You will develop a research proposal, including the methods you plan to use and a review of relevant literature, carry out your research, and write up your results in a scientific report.
You may also design a poster showing your research or deliver an oral presentation about your work.
Along with demonstrating your skills, your project may inspire you to take further steps in a research career path.
Some students use their undergraduate project as the basis for undertaking a research degree .
Successful completion of a PhD can open doors to many senior roles in the public and private sectors, or it can lead to a career in research and academia.
Your undergraduate degree will help you develop a range of professional skills that you will use throughout your career.
We understand that it can be difficult to recognise and identify those skills, especially if you are the first in your family to attend university.
Our undergraduate degrees include core modules on professional skills or preparing for professional practice.
These modules will help you identify the different skills that you are learning in the classroom, understand how to develop them further, and learn how to discuss and evidence them in job applications and interviews.
Chart My Path lets you find volunteering and other extra-curricular opportunities that can help you build skills and develop your CV.
These opportunities contribute towards the Big Essex Award, which verifies the opportunities you’ve taken up and showcases the contributions you've made to your skillset and the local community.
Volunteering opportunities are supported the Students' Union V-Team , who help organise projects including weekly volunteer sessions for long-term collaborations, or one-off and online opportunities.
Along with the skills you develop within our School, you will also have opportunities to learn additional skills offered by the university.
These can range from one-off classes, such as improving numeracy or learning how to use library-based tools for research, to enrolling in year-long programmes such as Languages For All .
These events are open all students in the university and may be repeated each term, giving you multiple opportunities to take part.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/sport-rehabilitation-and-exercise-sciences:
The School of Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences (or SRES) provides cutting-edge, industry-led degree programmes that are driven by research excellence and real-world application.
As an established, expanding school, SRES offers a wide range of high-quality taught undergraduate and postgraduate courses, postgraduate research programmes, and continuing professional development opportunities in sport and exercise science, sports psychology, strength and conditioning, sports performance and coaching, physiotherapy, and sports therapy .
When you become an SRES student, you will begin your journey to become a new breed of university graduate; a highly skilled, creative, imaginative and theory informed practitioner.
You will reap the rewards from a blend of innovative and traditional teaching methods, such as lectures, virtual labs, flipped classrooms, practical workshops, interactive discussions, and role play.
Your experiential learning will be enhanced by a variety of employment-ready and authentic assessments, including written plans and essays, in-situ observations, presentations, case studies, and practice portfolios.
You will also have the opportunity to take advantage of our exciting enrichment, placement , and study abroad initiatives, as well as our Performance Sport Scholarship , targeted at talented athletes competing at a regional, national or international standard.
The University of Essex has significantly expanded SRES state-of-the-art facilities for research and education since the opening of our new facility in January 2018 with further renovation in Summer 2021.
We are a dynamic, research-active school, consisting of emerging and world-leading researchers with an international reputation for cutting-edge research.
The Human Performance Unit has a range of equipment for sports and athlete performance analysis and research
Equipment such as the Vicon Motion analysis system allows us to monitor athlete performance and fitness.
Our physiotherapy labs include ultrasound and TENS machines.
Gas analysis systems are used to measure the rates of oxygen uptake and carbon dioxide production during physical activity.
Our Biomechanics lab has a range of equipment used by students and researchers, including several types of forceplates.
Our four research clusters explore basic science questions alongside projects with
strong societal impact.
The groups have received funding from a range of prestigious
organisations such as the Economic and Social Research Council, Academy of
Medical Sciences, Leverhulme Trust, National Institute for Health Research,
International Olympic Committee, World Anti-Doping Agency, Union of European
Football Associations, Sport England, England Cricket Board, Royal Ballet, Rugby
Football Union, British Heart Foundation and Chartered Society of Physiotherapy
Charitable Trust.
We have an outstanding reputation for both education and research.
We are ranked 18th in the UK for Sport and Exercise Sciences in the The Mail University Guide 2026, and 23rd in the UK for research power in sport and exercise sciences (Times Higher Education research power measure, REF 2021 ).
Whatever your path, you'll find an active and engaged community of sport, exercise and therapy professionals, who will help you develop the skills you need for your future.
If you would like any more information about sport, rehabilitation and exercise sciences or have a question you would like to ask, please complete this short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/economics/career-prospects:
Economics is vital to our future well-being.
In the months and years to come, the UK will become increasingly reliant upon careful economic management, in order to rise above the current economic, social and political challenges we face.
Those who study economics will be highly valued in all areas of public and private spending.
The sectors listed above are just a few examples of the pathways that a degree from the Department can lead to.
Employers are often looking for a degree level qualification rather than anything subject-specific, so there is no need to limit yourself to the roles listed above.
The skills you will develop during your time at Essex will enable you to pursue a wide range of potential career paths.
Our graduates have joined companies and organisations such as:
At Essex you will be immersed in a broad programme of study, uniquely designed to equip you with a diverse skill set.
Graduates of the Department will find their skill set highly sought after by employers looking to withstand the many economic challenges that lie ahead.
Brexit, Covid-19, the threat of recession and increasing austerity measures; these are just a few of the pressing issues which have necessitated an increased demand for highly skilled economists in many employment sectors.
From health and social care, to trade policy, labour market organisation, education and industrial policy, today's students of economics will play an integral role in overcoming the challenges we will face in all areas of public life.
During your time at Essex, you will be trained in the areas traditionally associated with economics, such as finance, business, and international trade and development.
You will also have the chance to develop a unique strength in public policy measures, learning how to stimulate and manage the economy, including the behavioural techniques to get messages across.
This distinctive focus will ensure you stand out from the crowd and will equip you with the necessary skills required to tackle the most difficult economic obstacles.
The Department of Economics provides a host of unique resources and opportunities, specifically designed to boost your future career prospects.
As part of your Degree, you will have the opportunity to include a placement year, giving you invaluable workplace experience in readiness for your life beyond education.
The Department will work closely with you to ensure you find the best possible placement, in line with your future career aspirations.
The proximity of the University of Essex to London ensures that you will be able to access the wealth of employment opportunities available within the capital.
Students from the Department have recently undertaken placements in high profile companies such as:
We want to ensure our graduates receive the very best employment offers.
To help you achieve this, you will learn how to write a UK CV and how to write a cover letter.
We also host mock interview panels and provide you with critical feedback in preparation for and tailored to your specific job interviews.
This programme has been carefully designed to ensure you are able to compete with confidence, giving you the competitive edge in an increasingly fierce job market.
Ten employability talks are held each year, which all students are welcome to attend.
Alumni from a variety of industries come to deliver lectures on gaining employment in specific industries.
Recent talks included how to get a job in the following sectors:
The Economics Society is a lively student-led organisation which hosts weekly events such as talks, dinners, and meetings.
Talks are given by alumni to students of all levels, enabling you to learn directly from employers about specific jobs, sectors, and careers.
Following each talk, you will have the chance to meet and interact with our guest speakers in a small group setting.
This unique networking opportunity will enable you to gain valuable face-to-face time with high-quality employers.
The Economics Society also organises its own seminar series in which current students give talks and respond to questions.
These events will enable you to hone your public speaking skills in a friendly and supportive environment.
Our Employability Advisory Group is comprised of a network of alumni who work closely with the Department, constantly advising us on how best to shape our teaching programme to improve career prospects for current students.
This group also provides a source of alumni mentorship for our students.
The UK Data Archive (UKDA) is located within the University of Essex and is home to the the UK's largest digital collection of social sciences and population research data from the past 50 years.
The UKDA provides researchers and students with training and support to access and utilise the data housed here.
Students of the Department of Economics are able to access this unique and valuable resource.
An advanced skill set in economics is becoming increasingly attractive to employers looking to overcome the challenges we face in a post-pandemic era.
Continuing your study with us will ensure you have the opportunity to graduate with finely honed skills, ready to propel you into the job market.
Graduates of economics are able to choose from a wide range of Masters level courses.
Don't have an undergraduate degree in economics?
Don't worry - students with a degree in unrelated disciplines will also be considered for further study with us, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Browse our full list of Masters level courses to find your advanced area of study:
Students of the Department can benefit from a number of scholarships and funding opportunities.
To view the very latest opportunities, please visit our scholarships and funding page.
If you are a graduate of the University of Essex, studied abroad here or have a spouse or partner studying here as a full-time international student paying overseas fees, we'll give you a loyalty discount of up to 33% on the tuition fee for your first year of postgraduate study at Essex.
The Department of Economics is home to a supportive environment for budding and active economists alike.
Your time with us will ensure you are able to work alongside some of the most prominent academics working in the field today.
But this network of support doesn't disappear after graduation.
Through activities such as our Employability Advisability Group, we ensure our alumni retain close ties with the Department long after they leave academia.
Graduates are also welcome to return to the Departmental open seminars so you can stay up to date with the very latest thinking from the Department.
Once you leave Essex, all graduates are able to access a lifetime of career support.
From help with hunting for your perfect job, to support transitioning from one career to another, the Career Services team are always on hand to help you at any point in your life after Essex.
Visit the Career Services page to learn more about how we support graduates throughout their lifetime:
The University also hosts an incredibly vibrant alumni network.
This community is open to all graduates of Essex and will provide you with exclusive membership for a lifetime, discounts, networking events and much more:
When I was looking for universities, Essex was one of the best for Economics and research.
I also wanted to stay near home but be far enough away to move out, so I chose Essex!
When I visited Essex for the first time it was definitely the uni that I felt was for me, plus the course structure was flexible enough to allow me to pick the modules which suited me.
I was able to study different areas of economics and see what suited me.
As I like international economics to do with trade etc.
I was able to study modules with an international focus which I really enjoyed.
I also took Chinese Mandarin for 2 years as my optional modules so I was able to learn basic Chinese and develop language skills.
I used the Careers Services to help with my CV and for guidance on how to write a covering letter.
I also got an internship through Essex interns which helped me gain my current job in accounting.
I did an internship with Essex Interns in Barking but I am now working as a trainee Accountant at a firm called Rickard Luckin, based in Essex.
Alongside my job I am also studying for my ACA qualifications.
My job is very varied because I am either preparing accounts or on an audit.
A‘typical’day in the office is seeing what job I have in the team plan, or if I’m currently in the middle of a job, for example preparing client’s accounts, I will continue with that and whilst doing that answer any queries my colleagues may have.
Accountancy doesn’t require an accountancy degree so choose a degree you like and if you really want a job in accountancy after your degree you will probably still be able to pursue it.
If you have a real interest in accountancy then if you set your mind to it anything is possible.
Find the firm that is right for you in size and environment then find out what qualifications and routes it can offer you.
The main thing is to do your research about the firm and the job and just go for it.
In 2022 we launched a new employability initiative; the Essex Equity Fund (EE Fund), the first of its kind in the East of England, providing Essex Economics students with hands-on experience in the world of investment banking.
Successful applicants to the EE Fund will participate in an investment bootcamp run by two Essex alumni - James Sesay and Roy Emeka.
James and Roy work in investment banking and are also part of our Employability Advisory Board.
The bootcamp teaches students how investment bankers pitch, assess and monitor investment opportunities.
After the bootcamp, students will work together to decide what assets they will invest in, with money provided by the EE Fund scheme.
They will then pitch their investment recommendations to James and Roy who will make the decision on what the EE Fund will invest in.
The students will then monitor performance of the Fund's portfolio and write regular reports, assessed by James and Roy.
This article has further information on the Fund.
I was motivated to choose the University of Essex to study Economics because the Department of Economics was in the top 10 ranking in the whole of the UK.
I believed I was going to get the best possible education and I was glad I made the choice.
Essex was also offering about scholarship opportunities to high-performing students from Nigeria.
I had a very nice experience at Essex.
I really enjoyed the academic atmosphere; it was a very positive experience.
The faculty staff were highly supportive and were always interested in the success of students.
I remember taking the Languages for All module where I learnt Spanish.
I was exposed to some Spanish traditions and cultures which has given me a great interest in Spain, I’d love to visit one day.
After graduation I returned home to Nigeria.
My first engagement after my return was at Globacom Nigeria Limited (one of the three biggest telecommunication companies in Nigeria).
However, as I was more interested in the financial services industry while in Globacom I registered as a Student Member of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) to prepare myself for the industry.
After Globacom I worked as a Research Analyst at Dynamic Portfolio Limited and currently, I work as an Investment Banking Analyst at MBC Capital Limited in Lagos.
Given the nature of investment banking, every day comes with its own challenges.
A typical day as an Investment Banking Analyst can be any combination of the following; attending engagement meetings along with Senior Associates to discuss transactions or prospects with clients or prospective clients, writing proposals for presentations, writing teasers, doing company analysis, developing financial models and general research.
I do not see myself leaving my current role any time soon.
I am enjoying where I am and there are opportunities for advancement within the organisation.
However, before I enrolled for my Masters I hoped to work at the Central Bank of Nigeriaas an Economist, where policies that affect the aggregate economy are made.
I believe my knowledge from an Economics Department that is as highly ranked as Essex will equip me better for such a challenging opportunity.
Essex Startups offers wide range of training, support and funding opportunities to our community of budding entrepreneurs.
It doesn't matter where you are in your start-up journey, we can provide the guidance and support to help make your dreams a reality.
One of my undergraduate professors back in Spain had studied at the University of Essex in the 1960's and he recommended it to me so I looked into it.
Furthermore, at that time, the course I wanted - econometrics and finance - was only taught at the University of Essex so it became a very easy decision.
Well, I really wanted to do quantitative economics (econometrics, statistics and finance) so my favourite modules were reflective of this.
My favourite was econometrics.
I went to work for a commodities consultancy in London, then joined Barclays Investment Bank as an Associate Vice President.
I then joined a hedge fund before going back to investment banking as a Vice President at Morgan Stanley.
I left banking in 2015 and started my own business, it was highly successful and I sold to a competitor.
My current business; Blend Network, was selected by the Mayor of London as one the UK's top-ten FinTech companies and recently secured £10 million funding from a group of high-net-worth investors.
I am Chief Strategy Officer there and also a Board Member.
It was a fantastic experience, both personally and professionally.
The University of Essex really did prepare me to face the career world and equipped me with some very strong knowledge and experiences for the outside world.
The MSc Applied Economics and Data Analysis programme offered a unique combination of modules, with opportunities to cultivate data analysis skills in addition to continuing my studies in Economics.
The UK Data Archive was also a draw, as we were trained on interesting datasets in class and I was able to tap into the UK Labour Force Survey for my dissertation.
I received a grant from the US-UK Fulbright Programme which sponsored me to complete my studies at Essex.
During my application for the Fulbright, I reached out to several professors at the University of Essex who expressed interest in my dissertation topic: immigration.
I was grateful to be supported by the professors at Essex even before my studies began.
I sought feedback from Careers Services in preparing for internship interviews.
Although I ultimately decided to focus on my studies during the months I spent at Essex, the careers centre gave helpful feedback on my CV, which I've taken with me.
Studying at Essex allowed me to connect with professors and classmates from all over the world and maintaining those professional relationships and friendships has been very rewarding.
I’m now based in New York City and I'm an Economist at Chainalysis, a blockchain analysis company with the mission of building trust in blockchains to further the growth of the cryptocurrency industry.
We offer compliance and investigation software to allow businesses to assess risk and protect their reputations and to help law enforcement identify and stop actors who use cryptocurrency for illicit activity such as fraud, extortion, and money laundering.
To illustrate one of the uses of our software, the US Department of Justice recently announced the shut down of a child sexual abuse material site which was operating out of South Korea.
The case resulted in the arrest of the site's operator and more than 330 users.
Moreover, 23 children were identified and rescued from their abusers as a result of the investigation.
Authorities used Chainalysis' investigation tool to analyse transaction activity and follow the flow of money to cryptocurrency exchanges, from which they could request information about users.
The MSc Applied Economics and Data Analysis is extremely relevant to my work every day.
I work with other economists and researchers to think through novel economic problems in the cryptocurrency industry, working a lot on time series econometrics, and visualising and processing data to make sense of trends and draw conclusions.
I frequently use Stata to run regressions just like we did in Econometrics and Applications of Data Analysis modules.
I envisioned working in the field of Development Economics or in government, but the opportunity to apply my background to a burgeoning field while gaining insight into the tech industry appealed to me.
Plus there is certainly overlap with my previous career plans: there is a lot of hope that the cryptocurrency industry will help to serve those under served by traditional financial systems and our software is used by governments to monitor illicit activity.
In many ways it is the career I hoped for - I get to continue to learn new tools for data analysis and new econometric techniques to solve problems with a dynamic team.
Reach out to students and professionals in fields you're interested in for informational interviews.
Remain open to opportunities - even ones you hadn't considered, you might be surprised at how applicable your background is!
And of course, study hard, what you're learning is valuable and applicable.
Would you like a career in forensic or chartered accountancy?
Public health is an area which requires highly skilled economists.
Local, national and international Government, can provide a wide range of public service roles.
Have you considered a career as a stock broker?
Many economists find careers within the field of law.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/economics:
Economics is part of your life everyday, through the politics you're involved in, the education you're taught, the environment you live in, the healthcare you receive and the costs you pay to live.
At Essex, you explore the decisions of individuals, the strategies of firms and the policies of governments, to understand how the world works.
We're 4th in the UK for research power (REF 2021), so you will be learning alongside academics who are breaking new ground in all fields of economics, and pioneering new solutions to global issues.
We are 7th in the UK for economics in the Guardian University Guide 2025 and top 200 for economics and econometrics in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025.
We're also home to staff and students from all over the world who want to think, learn and achieve together.
So, if you're ingenious, industrious and independent, welcome home.
We teach you how to answer economic questions using data, and how decisions impact on others.
We teach you advanced theory and methods and you'll work closely with our research stars.
You receive expert supervision by our world-renowned academics so you develop skills to succeed in your career.
The Centre for Behavioural Science allows us to build on that established expertise and expand the possibilities for collaboration.
Our centre brings together over a hundred researchers, making an impact across our three faculties of science and health, social sciences and the arts and humanities.
Do you have a question?
Contact us if you would like more information about the Economics Department.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/government/career-prospects:
With the world’s media focusing in on how each country’s Governments handle the global pandemic we find ourselves in, studying Politics and International Relations will equip you for a career of difficult questions and preparing vitally important answers.
At Essex we teach you to be fearless and independent.
You’ll question both sides of the argument and address all views to ensure a full debate has been discussed.
Studying in the Department of Government at Essex will provide the all important final stepping stone to starting your career in an subject you love.
A degree in government or politics is useful for any number of different career paths, some more obvious than others.
Virtually every aspect of life is related to how governments behave, so the opportunities a degree in politics offers are practically limitless.
A degree from the Department of Government will prepare you for careers in fields such as:
Employers are often looking for a degree level qualification rather than anything subject-specific, so there is no need to limit yourself to the roles listed above.
Graduates of the Department will find their skill set highly sought after by employers looking to withstand the many political challenges that lie ahead.
A degree from the Department of Government will help you to develop:
Brexit, Covid-19, the rise of nationalism and populism, growing tensions between US and China; these are just a few of the pressing issues which have necessitated an increased demand for highly skilled political scientists in many employment sectors.
From election integrity to trade policy, political representation, conflict resolution and human rights protection, education and industrial policy, today's students of government will play an integral role in overcoming the challenges we will face in all areas of public life.
During your time at Essex, you will be trained in the areas traditionally associated with government and politics, such as elections, conflict, and international trade and development.
You will also have the chance to develop a unique strength data analysis and qualitative research methods.
This distinctive focus will ensure you stand out from the crowd and will equip you with the necessary skills required to tackle the most difficult political obstacles.
Graduates of the Department would be well suited to careers in social research.
A degree from the Department could lead to a role in public relations.
Journalism or political journalism could provide an exciting career path for many graduates.
The skill set you develop during your degree would be well suited to a career in marketing.
An advanced skill set in government and politics is becoming increasingly attractive to employers looking to overcome the challenges we face in a post-pandemic era.
Graduates of government are able to choose from a wide range of Masters level courses.
Don't have an undergraduate degree in government/politics?
Don't worry - students with a degree in unrelated disciplines will also be considered for further study with us, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Browse our full list of Masters level courses to find your advanced area of study.
To view the very latest opportunities, please visit our scholarships and funding page .
Visit the Career Services page to learn more about how we support graduates throughout their lifetime.
The University also hosts an incredibly vibrant alumni network .
This community is open to all graduates of Essex and will provide you with exclusive membership for a lifetime, discounts, networking events and much more.
I was a Chevening Scholar-the CheveningSecretariat recommended me to the University of Essex for its expertise in quantitative methods.
So I checked the Essex website and I really likedthe MSc in Political Economy programme.My mind was made up.
The general research approach using mainly quantitative methods was great.
In relation to specific modules I think my favourites were macroeconomics and advanced research methods.I also took macroeconomics and development economics and I really liked those two modules.
My BA is in Government and International Relations which is also interdisciplinary, so for me it is very important to have that approach.
I have been working for the Colombian government for almost four years.
My current job title is Chief of International Affairs and I’m also Adviser of the Director General for Public Innovation.
Before obtaining my MSc degree I worked for 5 years in the Colombian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so after I got my degree I returned to Colombia and began working in the Administrative Department of the Public Function as Chief of International Affairs.
My knowledge of the field, due to my degree and my previous position, got me the job.
I arrived at the office at 7 am and review the emails that I did not manage to review the day before.
I then have a small meeting with my work team to identify the issues that are pending and make a distribution of tasks and deadlines.A typical day then includes a lot of meetings; both internal and external.
It is not always easy to work for a government, but it is truly important to change the general perception that citizens have of public servants and it is rewarding to be a part of that.
Did you know you could be graduating with enhanced quantitative skills simply by enrolling on specific Q-Step modules?
If you follow the Q-Step pathway you will receive a qualifier award at the end of your degree which will signal to employers your capability in quantitative research.
Whilst taking part in Q-Step you will also get the chance to undertake paid work placements of up to £300 per week.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/government:
We ask difficult questions to find important answers - where will the next civil war start?
Can we predict social unrest from tweeting patterns?
Why should we obey the law?
We'll help you understand how the forces that shape our world really work.
We train you to be fearless and independent, to question everything and draw on the broadest possible range of facts and ideas to get both sides of the story.
100% of our research environment is world-leading or internationally excellent (Grade Point Average, REF 2021).
Our academics are some of the biggest names in the field, giving you unrivalled access to the best minds in politics.
As well as conducting ground-breaking research, your lecturers advise political parties, governments and international NGOs.
If you want to study with the best and challenge your own opinions to uncover the truth, welcome home.
We want you to challenge us.
We teach you to always ask the 'how do you know?' question, moving from opinion to evidence.
We teach you to always use data when trying to prove or disprove your question, working closely with some of the biggest names in the field.
Our staff don't just teach you politics, they teach you how to think and write about politics to change the world for the better.
If you would like any more information about Government or have a question you would like to ask, please complete this short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/sociology/career-prospects:
Why were certain communities disproportionately affected by the virus?
What role did the media play in the pandemic?
How did government policy impact different societies around the world?
What implications did the management of the virus have for surveillance and privacy?
A degree from the Department of Sociology and Criminology will teach you how to answer these questions and find the solution.
As the world adapts to the post-pandemic landscape, the need for robust and reliable research to inform our social response is vital.
Sociologists are becoming increasingly relied upon in all areas of public life; from government to big business, their unique and valuable insights are now essential as we navigate and construct the new normal in our society.
The knowledge gained throughout your degree will prepare you for a wide range of professions after graduation.
You can even tailor your path of study to focus on the areas you find most interesting, whilst refining and enhancing your career prospects in the process.
The job roles listed above are just a few examples of the opportunities that a degree from the Department can lead to .
The skills you will develop will enable you to successfully transition into a wide range of potential career paths.
You may not realise it but sociologists have been integral to the government's pandemic response; their unique combination of skills has helped the government to understand society's response to the virus.
A number of previous students from the Department have graduated into successful careers with notable research companies, many of whom will have undertaken research on behalf of the government, using their skills to help shape the policy response to the current crisis.
Though it is not just government who are becoming increasingly reliant upon the analytical skills of sociologists.
Many employers are now having to adjust to the post-pandemic world and require the host of transferable and analytical skills that a degree in sociology will teach you.
Communication, interpersonal awareness, problem-solving and critical thinking are just a few of the applicable skill sets you will develop during your time with us.
Whilst the economic outlook remains uncertain, the jobs market looks set to become increasingly competitive.
Specific sectors such as retail, hospitality and tourism, have taken a severe downturn in the wake of the pandemic, and many vocational career paths have been disrupted.
As employers are adjusting to the rapidly changing environment, their need for skilled and adaptable employees with transferable skill sets has become more important than ever.
A degree in sociology will equip you with the transferable and analytical skills required to move between sectors and adapt with ease to the changing employment landscape.
For example, business and marketing are increasingly good fits for sociology graduates, as many businesses are becoming more reliant on market research to understand the changing needs of their customers.
The ability to understand and interpret the dynamics of class, age, gender and ethnicity is second nature to a sociology graduate, and crucial for any business looking to understand rapidly changing customer behaviour.
Sociology provides a skill set that ensures you will be eminently suitable for many jobs in a variety of sectors.
Interpretation and evaluation of evidence, communication, and working in groups are the kinds of skills employers look for.
Innovative employers value people with a critical mind who can think laterally, use analysis, summarise and interpret complex ideas, utilise qualitative and quantitative research methods and retain an open and enquiring mind.
A sociology degree will give you the chance to develop these skills and give you the competitive edge.
Become a leading human rights lawyer and pursue the fight for justice
Is a career in law enforcement or crime scene investigation for you?
Perhaps you would like to work therapeutically with children or adolescents?
Would you like to work in counselling or youth support services?
Maybe marketing or journalism is your ideal career?
The Department provides a host of unique resources and opportunities, specifically designed to boost your future career prospects.
As part of your degree you will have the opportunity to include a placement year.
The Department will help you to find a relevant opportunity and will support you as you improve your career prospects.
Recent Sociology and Criminology students have undertaken placements at:
The University of Essex is one of only 17 universities across the UK invited to take part in the prestigious Q-Step programme.
This voluntary programme of study is available to students of the Department of Sociology and Criminology and is designed to develop your quantitative research skills, a skill set which is highly desired by employers across all sectors.
If you follow the Q-Step module pathway, you will receive a qualifier award at the end of your degree which will signal to employers your capability in quantitative research.
Visit the Essex Q-Step Centre to learn more about the programme:
The Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER) is located within the University of Essex and is a leading centre for the production and analysis of longitudinal studies.
Originally established in 1989 to accomodate the British Household Panel Survey (BHPS), ISER now houses the ESRC Research Centre on Micro-Social Change, along with the successor to the BHPS - Understanding Society.
As well as providing unrivalled postgraduate study opportunities, students of the Department of Sociology and Criminology are able to access this unique and valuable research resource.
Visit the ISER website to learn more about this leading research institute:
Many graduates of the Department will decide to continue their studies at  Masters or PhD level.
Graduates from a non-sociology background are also able to pursue further study in the Department of Sociology and Criminology in readiness for a specific career.
You might decide to focus on specialised areas such as migration studies, organised crime, terrorism and security or even research methodology.
These are just a few of the specialist subjects you could study with us.
Browse our full list of Masters courses to find your advanced area of study:
The Department of Sociology and Criminology are always keen to keep in touch with graduates.
You can stay up to date with the very latest news and ideas from the Department via our busy Facebook page:
You will always be welcome to attend the many open seminars and events which are hosted by the Department.
To find out about the very latest events, please visit our calendar:
Graduates from the University of Essex are also able to access career support for a lifetime.
Our careers team will always be on hand to guide and support you as you transition into the world of work.
We are able to offer personalised employment support and will help you with careers advice appointments, either in person, over the phone or via Skype.
So, before your next big job interview, we will be on hand to review your C.V., discuss interview techniques and offer the practical guidance you need to take your next big step.
Visit the Career Services team to learn more:
When I visited Essex I just felt at ease.
I loved the layout of the campus so knew I’d be happy living here.
Plus the Sociology department had a great reputation and I felt very happy to become a part of it.
Although I did Criminology I enjoyed studying the sociology of education and social policies.
I thoroughly enjoyed the punishment module, learning about the prison systems.
I’m a Crime Scene Investigator for Essex Police.
I started working in the Police as a Criminal Justice Administrator, a position I got due to my degree, and moved up to CSI.
The lack of budget means I’m often the only person covering West Essex so it can be very stressful but identifying an offender is so rewarding!
Eventually I would like to become a Crime Scene Manager.
I’ll attend the Harlow office to look at what jobs are going on for me to go and collect fingerprints and look for DNA, footwear marks and generally any forensic evidence types.
A ‘normal’day includes attending crime scenes such as burglaries, stabbings, murders, suicides, rapes, thefts and drug related incidents.
Although my degree doesn’t directly feed into my job, it helped during the interview process and every day it gives me a further insight into who these people are and why they have committed these crimes.
I feel like my degree has given me a wealth of information I can apply to my job.
Be passionate and work hard!
I actually did my Bachelor’s degree at Essex as well as my Masters.
My undergrad degree was BSc Business Management, and when I was researching universities, I found that Essex had great reviews in terms of education for my field of study and offered an amazing student life within campus.
I really enjoyed the modules about Marketing in my undergraduate degree, in fact that was the reason I stayed in Essex for another year for my Master's degree in MA Advertising, Marketing and Media.
During my time at Essex I was Secretary-General (2013-14) and President (2014-15) of the Cypriot Society.
The additional skills this gave me were related to leadership, teamwork, organising and public relations.I was also Sports Coordinator of the International Student Association (2014) and Representative of the Cypriots in the International Student Experience Committee, which gave me the chance to cooperate with societies and people from other countries.
Furthermore, during my studies, I completed the Big Essex Award Programme that included completing employability and volunteering hours.
After I graduated from my MA in 2015, I moved back home to Cyprus to join our family business; Chrysodalia Food Industry.
I went through a 6-month induction programme to learn about the procedures of different departments within the company.
At the end of the programme I was placed in the Sales and Marketing department as Sales and Marketing Manager.
My main responsibilities are monitoring of sales and marketing actions and running the procedures of the distribution centre.
I go to the distribution centre every morning to monitor the loading procedure of the trucks and vans to prepare for the delivery of the products.
I then return to my desk to check my emails and sales reports.
When I finish with the administration for the day I arrange meetings with customers to maintain B2B relationships, problem-solve issues elsewhere in the company and plan promotion of new products.
What I love most about my job is the challenge of balancing business management / development and dealing with changes in the food industry and demand.
Don't expect it to be an office job that ends when you leave the building.
It is a 24/7 commitment.
You don't know what the future will bring and that is why you need to give 100% every day.
Stay focused and hungry.
Why did you decide to study your course at Essex?
When I came to look around the University of Essex I felt instantly at home.
It was also one of the best universities for my chosen subject of Sociology and it was far enough away from home that I could go out on my own,but close enough that I could still visit home occasionally.
I really enjoyed the modules that focused on race, social inequality and education.I also took some history modules so I gained a lot of historical links, knowledge and context in regards to different policies that link to sociological issues such as racism and social hierarchy and inequality.
I enjoyed the honest and open debate that was encouraged and was fortunate to have lecturers that truly inspired me.
Professor Colin Samson and Dr Carlos Gigoux really stand out in my mind - years after graduating I still remember them due to their inspiring and engaging lectures.
After graduating from Essex with a 2:1 in BA Sociology I went on to complete a PGCE at Canterbury Christchurch University.
I was fortunate enough to get an interview with one of my placement schools and I secured myself a job as an NQT.
I then became a qualified teacher passing both my PGCE and NQT year with elements of outstanding.
I am very proud to now be a fully qualified primary school teacher.
I arrive at work between 7.15am and 7.45am each day to prepare for the school day.
My children come in to class from 8.45 am and I teach them phonics, english and maths every morning.
The afternoons vary throughout the week where I teach them the foundation subjects such as history, geography, science, RE and music.
The children go home at 3.20pm and I finish work between 5.15pm and 5.45pm each day.
However, I often then plan lessons throughout the evening whilst watching TV and eating dinner - life as a teacher never stops!
I find my job really fulfilling and satisfying.
My degree has allowed to me to see my children as the whole child rather than just academic data.
I understand different cultures and backgrounds, which I feel I gained during both my university teaching and experience.
Seeing the children progress academically and grow in confidence over the year is incredibly rewarding.
Be prepared to work hard and do not afraid to cry!
Teaching is emotionally demanding and it is incredibly time consuming.
If you are not prepared to commit to it fully it is not the job for you because at the end of the day you are responsible for 30 children’s education!

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/sociology:
How do you relate to politicians, celebrities, your teachers or your friends?
How do you define yourself, your family and others?
We explore the way society works, what connects people and what divides them.
We're ranked 1st in the UK for research environment in sociology (Grade Point Average, REF 2021) .
We shape modern society today, advising the UN, government departments, think tanks and public bodies around the world on issues from the rights of indigenous peoples, to the regulation of the building industry, and organised crime and terrorism.
As one of Essex's founding departments, we've focused on how people think about major social issues such as poverty, inequality, class, welfare and vulnerability in societies around the world from the very start.
So, if you want to be stretched and challenged, and make a change in society, welcome home.
Why are societies not equal?
Why are some violent?
You look at big questions using your sociological imagination that you develop with us, to take out into the world and make it better.
We want you to embrace conflicting viewpoints and to carry out your own research using the skills that our experts teach you.
You work closely with our academics who supervise you across a range of topics that stretch across Europe, North America, Latin America  and Asia.
Essex Open Days are a chance for you to see where you might be calling home.
Chat with students and staff, tour our campuses and accommodation, listen to talks from academics and join a taster lecture.
If you would like any more information about sociology and criminology, or have a question you would like to ask, please complete this short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/psychosocial-and-psychoanalytic-studies/career-prospects:
Isolation, fear, loss and uncertainty; the post-pandemic world presents a serious challenge to our collective consciousness.
Overcoming these difficulties could be the biggest test of our generation.
How do we care for the most vulnerable in society?
What can we do to ensure good access to mental health care?
How can we support our refugee community?
How does increased remote working impact organisations and the dynamics of the workplace?
How do rapid technological advancements affect us?
A degree from the Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies will give you the answers and the tools to help.
The need for skilled professionals working in people-focused roles has become more critical than ever.
Learning to understand and adapt to the unprecedented changes taking place within our society is key to supporting community and mental well-being.
Those who can assist will be uniquely placed to help us overcome this challenge.
At Essex you will be immersed in a unique programme of study, designed to prepare you for working with a diverse range of people and in a multitude of contexts.
Graduates of the Department will find their skill set highly sought after by employers looking to support individuals and organisations as we adapt and respond to the ever-changing world.
A degree from the Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies will help you to develop:
According to the NHS, one in four of us will experience mental health problems throughout our lifetime, and mental illness is the single largest cause of disability.
As the fallout from the global pandemic continues, the true cost to the wellbeing of individuals, communities and the economy is yet to be revealed.
Fortunately, there is now good evidence that tackling some major mental health problems early reduces subsequent problems, improves people’s life chances, and saves money for the wider economy.
Today's students of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies will develop unique and valuable skills which will ensure they are well placed to find employment.
From health and social care, to big business, education and migration; the need for trained graduates working in these areas is now more crucial than ever.
The Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies offers you the chance to study a distinctive range of courses and modules in areas such as refugee care, childhood studies, psychodynamic counselling, gender and sexuality studeis and organisational dynamics.
You will have the chance to learn how to support and understand the needs of individuals across all age ranges and from diverse backgrounds.
The courses are designed to enable you to tailor your study around areas most closely aligned with your career goals, ensuring you graduate with specific knowledge and experience in readiness for the workplace.
Are you planning a career in clinical therapeutic practice?
Would you like to learn from active practitioners working in the field of depth psychology?
Would you like to learn more about management or leadership in business or large organisations?
Are you planning a career working with refugee or migrant communities?
Would you like to learn more about working in residential care?
Are you considering a career working with a charity or non-governmental organisation?
The Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies provides a host of unique resources and opportunities, specifically designed to boost your future career prospects.
As part of your Degree, you may have the opportunity to include a placement year, giving you essential workplace experience - a prerequisite for many careers within the caring profession.
Many of our teaching staff are also active practitioners within their respective fields..
Our close ties with industry ensure we can help you find the best possible placement, in line with your future career aspirations.
Students from the Department have recently undertaken placements in established and respected organisations such as:
The Department hosts regular employability events for all of our students, events include:
The Department hosts bespoke events for our alumni, these give you the opportunity to network and re-connect with other graduates and staff once you have graduated from Essex.
Are you considering a career in clinical practice, business and management or even refugee care?
Our unique Masters level courses offer you a  qualification which enables you to begin working at an advanced level in your chosen field.
Don't have an undergraduate degree in a related area of study?
Funding your further study:
The Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies provides a supportive and nurturing environment for students, researchers and staff alike.
Whether you have just left home - from the UK or abroad - or you find yourself returning to education as a mature student.
Your time with us will foster a network of support as you work alongside experienced and respected academics and practitioners working in the field today.
Our lively social media presence and Departmental newsletter ensures our graduates stay in touch with us and each other, whilst staying up to date with the very latest thinking from the Department.
You will also be welcome to attend the many events, open seminars and continuous professional development courses offered by the Department as you pursue your career post-graduation.
Once you have graduated, all Essex alumni are able to access a lifetime of career support from the University.
At first, what was then the Centre for Psychoanalytic Studies was a leading institution for Psychoanalytic Studies so it was appealing to gain a postgraduate degree taught by such experts in the field.
After that, I just fell in love with Essex Uni, the Department, the staff and decided to carry on and do more!
All modules were particularly stimulating - the courses are designed to promote further development of one's knowledge.
As such, they helped me gain a very rounded and well-balanced knowledge of psychoanalytic theory, but also a professional qualification that allowed me to start my own private practice.
Topping that up with research that allows me to apply psychoanalytic theory to the field of specialist mentoring, is just the cherry on top.
I am currently a Lecturer of Psychology at Roehampton University and an Associate Lecturer at University of Essex.
My role at Roehampton includes being the Course Lead for the PG Dip IAPT High Intensity Psychotherapeutic Counselling in Dynamic Interpersonal Therapy, a pilot training by HEE and the NHS designed to create a new professional pathway and a new mental health support provision for the public.
I am also a PhD candidate at Essex, finishing my second year.
In addition, I run my own private practice which I set up after I graduated from my second MA at Essex (Psychodynamic Counselling).
Finally, I am running for parliament in Greece, in the upcoming national elections.
Depending on which day of the week it is, I would either do PhD work, teach at Roehampton or at Essex, do admin, see clients at my private practice, and spend as much time as I can with my family and our 3-year-old son.
I also swim for my local club so I train about 5 times a week and campaign for the elections too.
I am looking forward to becoming a Senior Lecturer next year and finishing my Phd at Essex.
However, at the moment, I am looking forward to the upcoming national parliamentary elections in Greece as I am running for MP at my hometown constituency, which is also very exciting and quite an experience.
Everyone's path is different, and everyone's destination is different too.
I would say find a goal that makes you happy - persevere, be patient and be ready to fight for it and don’t compare your path with anyone else’s.
Be ready to tackle difficulties and don’t let anyone tell you what you can or cannot do.
Hard work pays off!
Oh, and come study at Essex!
For Kate Beckwith, studying for the Masters in Psychodynamic Counselling at Essex was life-changing.
Not only did she learn more about herself than she ever could have imagined, but the skills and experience she gained gave her the confidence to set up her own successful therapeutic practice.
I had originally applied to study Psychology.
However, after attending an open day where the Head of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies - Dr Chris Nicholson - hosted a session on what one would study and gain from doing a BA in Psychodynamic Practice (then called Therapeutic Care); I applied for the course through clearing.
During our first year, the module Child, Adolescent and Adult Development soon became one of my favourite modules to study.
I knew I had a passion for working in a paediatric environment and this module really opened my eyes to how deep the development of young people really goes and how long their developments lasts for.
After I graduated, I moved to the USA.
I currently work as a Patient Sitter for the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, which is the second best ranked paediatric hospital in the United States.
I knew I wanted to work in a healthcare environment but as I had little experience in such a setting, finding employment proved to be difficult.
When I saw the position for Patient Sitter open up, I applied and when interviewed, I described the modules and placements I had done whilst studying my BA and they said it would be a perfect match for this position.
My typical day involves a 1:1 observation between me and my patient.
The patient could be 1:1 for a variety of reasons; usually, the infants are 1:1 because they may have a tendency to pull on their lines and wires or itch at infected sites, so I am there to prevent them from doing so.
Some of the older patients, like the adolescents, are 1:1 because of mental or behavioural problems such as aggressive behaviour due Post Traumatic Stress or not eating because of Anorexia.
I am there to prevent them from endangering themselves and others and making sure they are fulfilling their treatment plans.
My BA is very relevant to my job.
A lot of what I learnt was observational skills - not only do I have to observe my patient, but I then have to give a relevant report to the nurse on what I saw and how it can be managed.
I am also able to apply some of my course knowledge such as Psychodynamic Concepts, Trauma and Violence as many of the children who are 1:1 have been admitted due to those issues.
My advice would be don't get disheartened if you get turned down.You may experience some setbacks but there are always places, even if it means getting a position just to get your foot in the door.
Take your time and do not rush into anything you may not want to proceed with down the line.
The University of Essex was the only institution that offered a programme as specific as the MA in Refugee Care with opportunities to not only learn theories but also to put in practice what is learned in the placement.
My favourite modules were the Context of the Refugee Experience and Therapeutic Care for Refugees.
I also enjoyed the lectures provided at the Tavistock Clinic and the opportunity granted to do a placement at the Refugee Council of London.
I started working in Médecins Sans Frontières, (Doctors without Borders) which is an international humanitarian medical organisation.They provide medical-humanitarian aid for refugees, asylum seekers, deportees and immigrants in general.
My role is to provide therapy sessions and counselling to the patients in need.
I’m currently based in the city of Mexicali, on the border between Mexico and the USA.
A typical day starts with an early meeting with my team, to plan and discuss any important information about our cases.
After this, if I don't have any patients in the morning, I'll go to the Mexico-USA border checkpoint (Mexico side), where people come daily to deliver their documentation and begin their asylum process, it is also where people are deported back to Mexico.
Here I usually talk to people and give them information about the services offered by MSF and I focus on the importance of mental health care.
Sometimes it is necessary to provide psychological first aid there, and other times people come with me back to the office because they are interested in having a medical consultation or going to a psychological session.
Back in the office I usually see patients individually or in family sessions and in some cases I work together with a doctor or social worker.
Depending on the day and schedule, I visit some of the shelters for migrants, where my job is to do psycho-educational activities and health promotion.
Sometimes we visit migrants' meeting points, such as plazas, parks and train tracks, and there we provide information on health services and general information that may be useful.
My work day is never boring or monotonous, on the contrary, it is always full of difficult and rewarding moments.
Very relevant.
My job and my main interest is to provide mental health care to the migrant population and refugees.
Despite having a background in therapy, this master's degree changed my understanding and opened my mind to other theories and ways of working - I deeply appreciate this and see it positively reflected in how I treat my patients.
Be patient, because sometimes getting a job in a NGO can take some time, it can be very competitive.
I would also recommend looking for opportunities to volunteer, there's always help needed and you can learn a lot from other people.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/psychosocial-and-psychoanalytic-studies:
How do we develop and understand the world?
What goes on deep down in our emotions, relationships and society as a whole?
At Essex, you study the role of the unconscious mind in mental health, culture and society, as we consider the many psychosocial factors which influence our lives.
You're taught by our internationally-recognised experts , from a range of disciplines in depth psychology and psychosocial studies.
Our professors and lecturers focus on theoretical, methodological and clinical thinking, whilst our clinicians and practitioners help people with mental health problems, social and emotional difficulties.
We're educating the next generation of mental health, education and social care professionals, developing students with the critical and research skills necessary to contribute to society and bring about change.
Our close relationships with the National Health Service, education, care services and professional institutions ensure what you're taught is always relevant, up-to-date and responds to the social need.
So, if you're fascinated by human relationships and culture and want to dig deeper, welcome home.
You look deep into the mind by studying psychoanalysis through the work of Freud and Jung, and make a difference to the mental well-being of children, adolescents and adults.
You're taught by lecturers who are both world-class scholars and clinical practitioners, so you learn different ways to look at the world, based on real-world experience and up-to-date knowledge.
You can investigate the topic that fascinates you, in depth and reach a profound understanding whilst being supervised by our experts.
If you would like to join our events mailing list or require further information about the Department of  Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies, please use the buttons below and complete a short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/language-and-linguistics/career-prospects:
As the world responds to the pandemic, the need for clear communication and ease of access to information across the globe, has become paramount.
Sharing messages in a language and format that can be understood quickly and by diverse communities has become a crucial element to successfully coordinating an international response.
Those who study language and linguistics are now uniquely placed to help us communicate effectively on a global scale, like never before.
A degree from the Department of Language and Linguistics will prepare you for careers in fields such as:
Employers are often looking for a degree level qualification rather than anything subject-specific, so there is no need to limit yourself to the sectors listed above.
Graduates of the Department will find their skill set highly sought after by a wide range of employers looking to work in a multinational context.
A degree from the Department of Language and Linguistics will help you to develop:
Communicating key messages to diverse audiences, ensuring equal access to vital information, working collaboratively on a global scale; these are just a few areas in which recent events have necessitated an increased demand for highly skilled language and linguistic specialists across many employment sectors.
From diplomacy and government, to multinational businesses and organisations, healthcare, education and the third sector, today's students of language and linguistics will find their unique skill set in high demand by employers looking to operate in an increasingly interconnected world and on a multinational level.
The education sector could provide a rewarding career path for students of language and linguistics.
Learning a language will help you to develop enhanced problem solving skills.
Lots of translation and interpreting headphones on a table.
Translation and interpreting could launch your perfect career in a wide range of industries.
Have you considered working as a speech or language therapist?
Would a career in public relations suit you?
Lots of small paper flags on cocktail sticks from different countries.
We provide a range of unique career development opportunities.
Many of our students gain professional qualifications (such as TESOL and CELTA) alongside their degree programmes.
There are also opportunities to practice skills in interpreting and translation via real life scenarios such as conferences.
The department also offers the University Research Opportunity Placement (UROP) scheme which provides students with an opportunity to be involved in an ongoing research project and experience conducting research first-hand, a fantastic opportunity regardless of what career you want to pursue.
Many of our students go on to pursue further study, either immediately after their degrees or after a period of employment.
Our Department offers a wide range of Masters level courses as well as research-based postgraduate courses at both MA and PhD level.
Some of our students also go on to pursue further study in other fields such as Speech and Language Theory, which build on their training in the Department and in Language and Linguistics.
At the Department of Language and Linguistics we support our students throughout their work placement in the UK or abroad as they follow a dedicated module with regular assignments and supervision by a nominated academic relevant to their field of study.
The university placement team advises students during the process of securing a placement, conducts checks before the placement commences, and assists in case there are any difficulties during the course of the placement itself.
For me, it was not only the range of modules that the department offers that informed the decision to come to Essex but also the expert lecturers who are teaching these modules.
I spent a lot of time reading through the profiles of these lecturers on the department’s website and was impressed by their list of researches and publications.
It was also a good thing that I found lecturers who have conducted ‘world-leading’ researches in the field of Linguistics in which I have a keen interest.
The opportunity to study in the same class with these experts tipped the scales in favour of Essex.
The classes were among the highlights of my studies at the department.
My classes were always stimulating, interactive, and thought-provoking.
They were opportunities to engage in a dynamic academic discourse with not only the lecturers but also with fellow students who share a passion for the same module.
We were encouraged to talk and share our perspectives, in a space without judgement, on the topics and subjects raised in these classes.
Through these classes, I have been able to build such valuable relationships with my fellow students as well as my tutors in a way that I later found that these world-class experts are not distant and unrelatable lecturers.
In my second year of study at the department, I applied for and got the role of a Research Assistant on the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Programme (UROP).
In this role, I worked with Dr Hannah Gibson, a lecturer at the department, on a project entitled Researching dialectal variation in under-described language varieties.
In my third year, I was also a Research Assistant on a Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) project.
I worked with Dr Tracey Costley and Dr Colin Reilly on a research entitled: Disrupting Discourse: establishing a decolonial paradigm for language policy, pedagogy, and practice.
In both of these roles, I had a unique opportunity to find out what goes on behind the scenes during a research project in particular and in academia in general.
These experiences were two of the stand-out features of my academic CV for my postgraduate studies applications.
Ever since I was in third grade I dreamed of studying abroad.
Once I received an offer from the University of Essex all other options ceased to matter.
The course and its diversity, the native speaker teachers, the extra-curricular and volunteering activities all made it an incredible opportunity.
Studying foreign languages opened up a whole new world for me.
I had the opportunity to study and travel abroad, meet numerous people from different countries, and immerse myself in an international experience.
I also liked the technical part of my studies (grammar / vocabulary / syntax) as well as the more practical modules (translating, interpreting, subtitling).I was always curious about Psychology, so I also chose some modules outside my study area relating to it.
I wanted to understand myself better and those around me to connect with them on a new level.
Studying Modern Languages, going abroad for one year and leading a teaching project for two years all enhanced my career skills and increased my chances of getting the job I dreamed of.
Most of the work experience I gained was done through volunteering (Global Voices, Refugees Teaching Programme, One Off Projects).
I have also used the valuable advice from the Career Centre in order to improve my CV.
After completing an online course for teaching abroad (The TEFL Academy), and obtaining my BA at Essex, I started applying online for jobs in South-East Asia, especially China, South Korea, Vietnam and Thailand.
I had a few Skype interviews, and once I made my choice (and completed all the paperwork) I started working in less than a month.
I am now working as an English Teacher in Ca Mau City, Vietnam.
A typical day usually commences around 2 pm.
I have the entire morning to myself.
I teach a primary class (90 minutes), then spend the afternoon doing office work (compiling test papers, updating and reviewing old ones, marking assignments, writing reports etc.) At 6pm we start the evening classes – I generally teach 2 classes of 90 minutes each.
I usually finished my day around 9pm and head home.
My degree is crucial for my job as it is related to language teaching and one's capacity to adapt to a new lifestyle and country.
Studying Modern Languages at Essex was essential for me!
The Language and Linguistics department at Essex was highly rated and even recommended to me by my A-level English teacher who had taken the same course a few years earlier.
The course itself appealed to me because the modules on offer were varied.
Some modules followed on well from A-level English Language and some options explored new areas.
Also, the department staff are well known across the world for their teaching and research.
My main area of interest was sociolinguistics, which I studied throughout the four years of my undergraduate degree.
I found that all of the staff involved in these modules were knowledgeable and really helped you to achieve your own personal goals.
Personally, one of my main interests of linguistics is accents and dialects, which was complemented well by the various sociolinguistics and phonology modules available.
Studying at Essex gave me confidence to succeed, with a broad knowledge and skill set behind me.
As a student, you learn important skills such as independence and time management, which benefit you greatly in the wider world.
I feel that these, combined with a degree from Essex have helped me achieve what I have so far.
In addition, the extracurricular activities that Essex offered me have been incredibly beneficial, such as the student newspaper, of which I was TV editor in my final year.
Also, the opportunity to study abroad for a year (I studied in Germany) has given me new skills, experiences and opportunities I may never have received if I had not studied at Essex.
My current role includes an element of international travel and I feel that my year abroad in Germany has been beneficial in preparing me for solo trips to other countries (and continents!).
I am currently working as the Publications Manager for an international publishing company -Land and Marine Publications, based in Colchester.
I am in charge of the production of a wide range of publications in the travel and maritime industries;including editing, writing, proofreading and project managing.
The skills and knowledge learnt from my course have helped shape me as a writer, which forms an integral part of my job.
It has also given me the confidence to succeed and have belief in myself and my abilities.
In addition, writing and editing for the student newspaper (when it was called ‘The Rabbit’) has been beneficial for me, and without the skills acquired doing this, I feel I would not be in the position I am now.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/language-and-linguistics:
Language is fundamental to our thoughts, relationships and cultures.
It's at the heart of every interaction we have with each other.
From falling in love, to settling global political disputes, and even posting on social media.
At Essex, we explore this uniquely human phenomenon from every angle - from investigating social perceptions of different accents, to teaching a range of modern languages, researching how children and adults learn new languages, and empowering people from underrepresented communities around the world.
If you have a global outlook, are interested in human interaction and want real-world practical skills, welcome home.
We offer many courses across modern languages and linguistics, taught by native and bilingual experts.
You join our research community of students and staff from all over world, with over 100 different languages spoken on Campus.
You're taught and supervised by staff with an international reputation, with expert supervision across a range of topics.
If you would like any more information about language and linguistics or have a question you would like to ask, please complete this short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/essex-business-school/careers:
Our courses allow you to experience the cutting edge of modern business practices and are designed to equip you with the essential skills and knowledge that you will need for an exciting and fast-paced career in business and beyond.
On this page you will find information on a wide variety of career pathways for business school graduates.
From Accountant to Wall Street Wizard (yes, we encourage our graduates to build their own job titles where possible) you will discover where a degree from Essex Business School could take you.
We are a big department with academic expertise in five key subject areas: accounting , finance , entrepreneurship , management and marketing .
Therefore, this page will guide you through the key skills and alumni destinations for each of our subject areas.
As business themes operate through every industry you will find that doors open for business school graduates in virtually every sector.
On this page you’ll hear from business school graduates who have taken their opportunities and built upon the skills gained on their degrees to become entrepreneurs, traders, business leaders and so much more.
At Essex Business School, we have five core subject areas, plus The Essex MBA.
To find out about the specific career prospects for your chosen subject, click on one of the panels below.
To find out more about how Essex Business School supports your employability skills and career prospects more generally as a department, please keep scrolling.
At Essex Business School, we are focussed on delivering a transformative education in business for our students.
What this means is that from day one, we embed analytical, professional practice and personal effectiveness skills into our teaching to ensure that our graduates are well positioned for the graduate labour market.
All of our taught modules embed elements of our skills map which emulate the skills which are required by employers of business graduates, these include:
We've designed our modules to help you develop many of these skills at the same time as handling course material, however Essex Business School students also have two additional streams by which professional skills are taught, developed and nurtured:
Essex Business School students also benefit from the expertise offered by the University of Essex Careers Service who run regular training and workshops in professional skills development.
The service extends beyond your time at Essex as graduates receive career support for life.
Additional to our embedded skills map, we also offer Digital Skills training which can be taken adjacent to your degree.
Our Digital Skills: Transitioning to the Digital Workplace workshop series  helps to prepare students for transitioning from studying to working and topping up their digital skillset in preparation for a more technology based work environment:
In short, yes.
As a department we hold close ties with the University of Essex Startups Team as well as using our expertise in entrepreneurship to support our students with their new ventures.
Entrepreneurship is an increasingly popular graduate destination for students from all disciplines, but particularly for business graduates.
The Essex Startups team are based in the Innovation Centre which is adjacent to the Essex Business School building at our Colchester campus and also provide their services for students on our Southend campus.
We work closely with the  team to deliver entrepreneurship workshops for our students as well as encouraging our students to join Essex Startups new business development streams.
Through Essex Startups and Angels@Essex you can bid for start-up funding varying from small loans and grants to larger scale investment opportunities.
Our Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship group form one of our key teaching and research areas at Essex Business School.
Students at our Southend campus are taught by experts in new venture creation and small-medium enterprise (SME) development and are encouraged to be entrepreneurially minded.
Additionally, entrepreneurship is a theme which is woven into teaching across all of our taught programmes.
WYSPR are an example of two Essex Business School graduates who took advantage of Essex Startup support and investment while students to launch their successful Social Media enterprise:
Gaining a degree in a business subject means that you enter the graduate jobs market with credentials that employers want.
A degree in accounting, entrepreneurship, finance and banking, management or marketing from Essex Business School indicates to employers that you have applied knowledge in your specialised area alongside a desirable skills-set.
At Essex Business School and the University of Essex we offer a number of add-ons to your degree which will allow you to gain valuable experience and skills in addition to your structured studies:
Q-Step is a quantitative skills pathway at the University of Essex which allows undergraduate students in Essex Business School to gain enhanced quantitative skills  by enrolling on specific Q-Step modules.
Whilst taking part in Q-Step you will also get the chance to apply for a paid internship of up to £300 per week.
Our Digital Skills workshop series aims to help our students transition from university to the business world.
The modern world of work depends upon digital applications and processes, our Digital Skills: Transitioning to the Digital Workplace programme allows our students to top up the technology and IT skills gained on their degree with advanced workshops in Excel, data analysis and visualisation and personal branding online.
Find out more about how digital upskilling can improve your employment chances in this blog post from University of Essex Careers Advisor, Kirsty Makepeace .
If you've got the travel bug, you can opt to take a study abroad or work abroad year as an additional year as part of your undergraduate degree.
You will have the opportunity to immerse yourself in a different culture by working or studying abroad which will give you an advantage in the global jobs market.
The University of Essex has its own dedicated study abroad team in Essex Abroad who offer short-term, long-term study, work or volunteer abroad opportunities for Essex students.
You can do a placement year with any of our undergraduate degrees at Essex Business School (students on our language courses can opt for a study abroad or work abroad placement year) - it's the best way to gain some hands-on experience for your CV.
The Essex Careers Service work with our students to help you apply for nationwide placement schemes, such as those with Lloyds Banking Group and Samsung, as well as for more tailored opportunities at fast-growing SMEs and start-up companies .
We'll support you through the whole process of securing a work placement.
From the research right at the end of your first year / start of your second year, through to coaching you for writing your application and attending interviews and assessment centres - w e'll be on hand to help.
Having completed a placement year as a Marketing Executive with Greater Anglia, Karolina shares how the experience confirmed she made the right choice when she picked a degree in Marketing.
As a business school we are naturally aligned with business and business collaboration.
We work with businesses and organisations in a number of ways which benefit our students, our teaching and our research:
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) bring together businesses with research expertise at the University of Essex.
Funded by Innovate UK and Research Councils, companies approach the University of Essex to recruit postgraduate students to become employed as Research Associates to support them with a project.
Postgraduate students and alumni take up a fixed-term, paid position as a Research Associate while they work on the project with the company, the duration of which is usually 1-3 years.
Around 70% of Research Associates find that they are offered a full-time role with their partnered company at the end of the project.
The University of Essex are the number 1 university in the UK for Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), the flagship Innovate UK programme.
Essex Business School postgraduate students have participated in a number of KTPs to date, including:
Laser 24 KTP
The Finishing Line KTP
Our building at our Colchester campus is located at the Knowledge Gateway, the University of Essex's research and technology park.
We sit alongside the Parkside Office Village and the Innovation Centre which makes us ideally situated for business collaboration.
In fact, some of our recent graduates and alumni occupy spaces in both the Parkside Office Village and the Innovation Centre with their start-up businesses:
Mission Café
Arma Karma
Successful Futures is Essex Business School's annual student employability conference.
We have a topical theme every year and invite representatives from local and global businesses to speak to our students and present their innovations and network with our students.
Dr Thanos Verousis is a Reader in Finance at Essex Business School, specialising in the study of financial markets and behavioural finance and he is passionate about bringing external industry speakers into the classroom.
Read his mini-manifesto on guest speakers to find out more.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/essex-business-school:
Our school is home to a vibrant and thriving international community, with campuses in
Colchester and Southend.
We offer five broad subject groups: Accounting , Business and Management, Marketing , Finance and Banking , and Entrepreneurship .
Through our teaching and research, we push the boundaries of knowledge, fostering critical thinking, and encouraging the use of business as a force for good.
Many of our courses are professionally accredited, giving you a head start in your career.
In fact, 89% of University of Essex students move on to employment or further study after graduating.
Join us in achieving success at Essex.
We push the boundaries of knowledge, helping organisations and society innovate and thrive.
Our mission is to deliver a transformative education and research excellence that has a positive impact on people, business and society.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2025/07/02/reflecting-on-my-sustainability-engagement-internship:
During my 12 weeks as a Sustainability Engagement Intern, I experienced a journey full of learning, collaboration, and purpose.
While I already understood that sustainability goes beyond just environmental issues, this internship allowed me to dive deeper into the wider scope of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), from responsible consumption and climate action to quality education, gender equality, and partnerships for the goals.
A major highlight of my internship was helping to plan and implement Sustainability Awareness Week.
I supported everything from brainstorming themes to coordinating with clubs and promoting events.
One standout moment was getting the Sub Aqua Club involved in World Ocean Day.
Their enthusiasm for ocean conservation helped spark important conversations on marine health, biodiversity (SDG 14: Life Below Water), and the role we all play in protecting our ecosystems.
I also took part in Food Waste Action Week, which focused on raising awareness around SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production.
One of my favourite parts was attending a workshop with Rowen Halstead, where we learned to make a delicious pesto pasta using leftover bread.
It was a fun and practical reminder that fighting food waste doesn’t have to be complicated it can be creative and delicious.
We also engaged directly with students across campus both during Sustainability Awareness Week and throughout the internship asking them about their understanding of sustainability, their use of bins, and how confident they felt about recycling correctly.
These conversations were insightful and helped highlight the importance of education and accessibility in driving change.
This work tied into SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities, as it encouraged better waste management and behaviour change at a local level.
I learned that awareness really is the first step toward action.
My internship was also a powerful learning experience, thanks to the guidance and support of Michel Mason, my manager.
Michel's mentorship helped me see the strategic side of sustainability work from how to plan effective campaigns to how to embed SDGs across a campus community.
Her knowledge and leadership gave me a much deeper understanding of sustainability as a system-wide issue, not just an environmental one.
A big part of my development also came from working with Saskia, who introduced me to the social media side of engagement.
She showed me how to craft posts that educate, inspire, and inform skills that are essential when working toward SDG 4: Quality Education and SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals.
I learned how powerful storytelling and digital platforms can be in reaching and motivating diverse audiences.
Across the 12 weeks, I developed skills in project management, public speaking, creative communication, and collaboration.
I learned how to connect global goals to local actions and saw first-hand how sustainability touches everything from food and oceans to wellbeing and equality.
This internship didn’t just teach me about sustainability, it made me feel like I was part of something meaningful.
I’m incredibly grateful for the experience and excited to take what I’ve learned into whatever comes next.
BSc Marine Biology Student, University of Essex
Yasmin is an Undergraduate Marine Biology student who has worked as a student ambassador and Sustainability engagement intern.
She is currently a Community Organiser for the Student Union and pursuing her Master's degree.
Read more to hear about her experiences at the University.
Dimitri Lera, Edge Hotel School
27 March 2024
Categories: Sustainability
17 June 2025
Categories: Sustainability, Education Practice

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2025/02/25/laura-tunmer:
Postgraduate Psychodynamic Counselling student Laura is combining her wealth of experience as a therapeutic art practitioner and her trip to Kefalonia to volunteer for a wildlife charity to create a book that allows children to gain an understanding of conservation and to express their own feelings throughout the story.
For the past 12 years I have worked as a Teaching Assistant in my local Primary School.
During this time, I have witnessed a significant increase in the number of young children experiencing anxiety and requiring additional emotional support.
The school enabled my training as an Emotional Literacy Support Assistant (ELSA) to help meet the growing demands from children and their families.
To further support the children at school, I qualified as a therapeutic art practitioner to enable children to express themselves without using words.
Drawing and Talking Therapy helps the right and left side of the brain to communicate effectively, bringing the unconscious to the conscious.
For younger children, Sand Play works in the same way.
Obtaining these skills allowed me to practice art therapy outside of the school and support a greater number of children.
I helped to coordinate the set-up of a therapeutic space at school, providing the children with a safe retreat during moments of overwhelm and to express their feelings in confidence.
Alongside this, we began working in partnership with the YMCA to deliver relevant programmes to the children aimed at boosting confidence and resilience.
While receiving the training to facilitate this work, the leader told me that she’d studied Therapeutic Communication and Therapeutic Organisations at Essex and recommended that I investigate reinforcing my experience with a formal qualification.
I came to Essex as a mature student, completing my BA in Therapeutic Communication and Therapeutic Organisations in 2022.
Having enjoyed my studies and witnessing first-hand the transformative impact therapeutic counselling can have, I decided to continue my education with an MA in Psychodynamic Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP accredited).
The Masters is intense and involves clinical placements, allowing me to develop my knowledge of working with a range of age groups and gain an understanding of the various, emerging demands for children and adolescents.
During my undergraduate studies I participated in one of the University’s international volunteering programmes, visiting the Greek island of Kefalonia with charity Wildlife Sense to support a sea turtle conservation project.
Alongside my daughter, who joined the trip, our focus was to rescue sea turtle hatchings and ensure they made it to the sea.
One night, as we sat on the beach waiting for the hatchlings to emerge, I was struck by the bravery of these tiny, vulnerable creatures as they made their perilous journey towards the water…and the unknown.
I felt that children would be able to relate to the experiences of the turtle hatchlings and learn from them.
Emotional regulation in children can develop at different rates and can be impacted by a variety of experiences.
Helping children to recognise their emotions and teaching them the vocabulary to label them, supports self-regulation and encourages children to express their feelings enabling others to understand.
Tiny Turtle 32 is a book for 5-9-year-olds following the journey of a sea turtle hatchling on her way to the ocean and her feelings along the way.
Throughout the book children will be encouraged to express how they may feel in similar situations, using dedicated space to draw and write.
This book will support parents and caregivers to communicate different feelings, as well as introducing children to the importance of conservation and caring for the natural world.
My first encounter with Essex Startups was a mentoring meeting with Entrepreneur-in-Residence James Cracknell.
I arranged the meeting to see if my idea of creating a book sounded feasible, and to gain an understanding of the process.
From the outset, James was enthusiastic about my idea and was able to provide clear steps for me to follow.
He taught me the importance of viewing my business as a whole, rather than the book as a sole project.
The experience I have gained as a therapeutic art practitioner is intrinsically linked to the creation of the book, and once I have qualified as a counsellor there may be opportunities to scale my offering further.
With encouragement from the team, I used the University’s Click crowdfunding platform to raise the initial funds needed for self-publishing.
I was hesitant about going down this route, due to feelings of impostor syndrome, but was delighted to achieve my target and to have received the financial endorsement from the University’s stakeholders demonstrating a tangible belief in my project.
I am currently participating the Essex Startups Empower: Female Founders programme.
Despite other commitments restricting my attendance in-person, the team have accommodated my participation via Zoom enabling me to be a part of this amazing course detailing the development of start-up businesses from a female perspective.
Life is extremely busy, and I find myself feeling constantly tired.
I am working part-time in the school, coming onto campus each week for teaching and seminars, attending placements and supervision, working on the development of my business, and managing my caseload of regular private clients.
However, I remind myself that this situation is temporary and by September I will have submitted my dissertation for completion of my Masters.
So, while I’m extremely busy now, I just need to keep pushing because it won’t be long until I am able to achieve more balance.
I try to keep one day a week completely free to spend quality time with my family and to clear my mind.
I enjoy the Chinese practice of QiGong, incorporating movement, breathing and meditation.
Working as a counsellor and dealing with trauma can be emotionally draining.
It can be difficult to disconnect, so I have found this practice useful to maintain focus and restore a sense of calm during periods of stress.
The next step will be to produce a publishing brief with the aim of securing a publishing contract.
There are financial outgoings associated with this, but the service of typesetting, editing, assigning an ISBN, registering with libraries and major book retailers, as well as managing the manufacture and distribution process, are essential for the book’s release and ongoing sales.
My intention is to establish a fund where a percentage of money raised from book sales can be used to acquire equipment which would be donated directly to Wildlife Sense who inspired this journey.
No matter what age you are, you can chase your dreams.
Don’t let your age be a barrier to achieving your personal or professional goals, it’s never too late.
I would never have come this far in my entrepreneurial journey without the guidance and support of the Essex Startups team.
I am so grateful to James for helping to bring my vision to life and for having the belief in my abilities.
The team continue to give me the boost I need to persevere and have inspired me to keep developing my skills.
If you have a potential business idea, or are interested in developing your business skills, find out more about the training, events and support Essex Startups offers to current students and recent graduates.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2025/02/11/madeleine-last:
Inspired by her children, PhD Creative Writing student Madeleine founded Gaming Gone Good, a game design studio dedicated to developing impactful computer games that tackle real-world issues.
I originally came to Essex to study for an MA in Wild Writing: Literature, Landscape, and the Environment.
This course allowed me to explore the nuances of human and landscape interaction, how to understand environmental challenges and how to approach writing about them in a creative, critical, and scientific context.
The course tapped into many of my personal interests, so moving to PhD study felt like a natural progression.
The idea for Gaming Gone Good began to form while observing my children playing Minecraft.
Watching them create and interact in this virtual world offered an insight into the way they connect with other people and the space around them.
They were being faced with challenges and finding solutions to overcome them.
It was clear that they were acquiring a wide range of skills without realising it.
I realised I had an opportunity to bring together my personal interests, academic experience, and my understanding of raising and teaching young people to thrive in the modern world to redefine the gaming industry by merging entertainment with social responsibility.
Studies have shown that prison inmates spend more time outdoors than children.
As a parent, I understand the importance of children spending time outside in nature, but the issue we face is time.
Climate catastrophe, biodiversity loss and the conversations being had around these issues require immediate engagement, so I want to harness what we know to work.
My mission is to create digital narratives that offer teenagers and young adults’ enjoyment and connections to real-world societal issues in a form they seem to love: computer games.
It’s vital that people enjoy our games, so we can maintain that engagement.
Therefore, the approach is social impact is the by-product of playability .
Gaming Gone Good has two pipelined projects to date.
EcoGenesis: Guardians of Biodiversity is a concept developed with my children, who were shortlisted for the YGD BAFTA award in 2023.
This is the project we are developing first together with University of Suffolk Games Development department and University of Essex Games Design postgraduate students.
In this game, players take on the role of guardians tasked with restoring balance to fragile ecosystems and preserving biodiversity.
Now, when I step out with my children, they’ll often refer to the games they’re playing in real world scenarios.
I want to achieve a situation where kids step outside and recognise plant and insect species and understand the intricate interactions taking place in the natural world.
If kids can understand the processes involved in the formation of obsidian just from playing Minecraft, they can easily start to become familiar with natural landscapes by the same method of learning.
My second project, Doughnut Odyssey , aims to teach young people about the concept of circular or ‘doughnut’ economics.
The idea is to meet the needs of society without overshooting the integrity of the planet.
I have been discussing these plans with DEAL (Doughnut Economics Action Lab) and have made some great connections as a result.
Life is a constant juggle, and I am grateful to those who support my ideas and have my back.
I work in Art and Design at a Further Education College, study part-time at the University of Essex for my PhD, manage the development of my business, and care for my family.
I take pride and enjoyment in all aspects of my life and my kids inspire me to find a way to make it all work.
In June 2024 I participated in the Essex Startups Summer Bootcamp.
The timing was perfect for me working in education, as it allowed building my business plan over the summer months to be my primary focus.
When working in isolation, it can sometimes be difficult to feel motivated and like you’re making progress.
However, the regular business plan deadlines, and feedback, kept me on track and made the process manageable.
Following completion of my business plan, I took part in the Big Pitch event in October and was delighted to be announced as one of the winners.
I was awarded £2,000, which allowed me to set Gaming Gone Good up as a limited company and will assist with further game design development.
I continue to meet with members of the team on a monthly basis to discuss progress, ideas, and opportunities for further investment.
In collaboration with a colleague at the University of Suffolk, we have been discussing game dynamics further and working towards a demo which can be submitted for funding to further develop the game.
Biodiversity is a delicate subject; we want the game to be accurate and scientifically sound.
We have also discussed ways we might research player behaviour to understand how games can impact human/nature relations.
So many exciting avenues to explore.
I am also looking forward to participating in the Empower programme run by the Essex Startups team.
It is a six-week programme specifically designed for female founders, and I’ll get another opportunity to pitch for funding at the end.
Don’t give up.
Love what you do.
Challenges can sometimes feel overwhelming but get stuck in and the experience will be far more rewarding.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/categories/careers:
Careers and employability blogs, news, stories and advice for undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Yasmin Hoey
02 July 2025
Essex Startups
25 February 2025
11 February 2025
28 January 2025
03 December 2024
19 November 2024
22 October 2024
24 September 2024
31 July 2024
19 June 2024
05 June 2024
Alumni team
15 May 2024
08 May 2024

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/active-campus:
Our student social sports programme is an exciting and different way to get involved with sport on campus.
Whether you want to find a fun way to stay active, learn another skill or fancy something a little more competitive, we have it covered.
Become an Essex Sport member today, and  you get all these social sessions free, plus a discounts on our courses.
Our social session programme offers a flexible way for students to try new sports and socialise in a fun environment.
Open to all abilities and often delivered in partnership with the SU clubs, our programme includes basketball, football, tennis, touch rugby, badminton and more!
Whether you're a complete beginner, or just want to stay active whilst you study, we have something for everyone!
We also provide all required equipment!
Social sessions are free for all University of Essex students.
Please check the Essex Sport App for a live and most up to date timetable.
18 April, 21 April, 5 May & 26 May - No active campus on Bank Holidays.
All social sessions must be booked in advance.
How to book social sessions:
If you cannot attend a booked session it is essential that you cancel this no later than 1-hour before the session.
This ensures other members have the opportunity to participate and join the session.
Repeated failure to cancel your sessions may result in a fine or restriction being placed on your account.
It is also important that you are registered for our sessions.
For indoor sessions please make sure you swipe through the turnstiles.
For outdoor sessions, it is your responsibility to speak to the staff member leading the session and to make sure your registration is recorded.
Our recreational leagues and tournaments are for students who want to play competitive sport in a social, fun and relaxed environment.
Get together with a group of friends, sign up as a society, department, or accommodation, or join a different sport to your current BUCS club.
Win or lose, you’ll have a great time and make some incredible memories.
Enter by completing the sign up form .
Bookings are now live for our summer term leagues.
Register your team and complete payment online .
You can also download and complete the registration form (.pdf) and return this to our reception team along with payment.
If you have any questions about the leagues, payments or registration drop us an email before the deadline!
Our Learn To courses provide a structured course-based programme to help improve your skill level and ability.
Our courses focus on helping you develop in a fun environment and provide an excellent springboard to help get you started.
Whether you’re looking to learn something new or take your game to the next level we have courses for everyone, and our flexible programme ensures you get a great experience all term long.
All equipment is provided but we do encourage you to bring your own equipment where possible and our coaches are more than happy to chat with you to help ensure you get the right thing!
All Essex Sport members will also save 15% off on all course bookings.
Prices: Members £48 and Non-Members £56.
All Levels:
Non-members: £56
Members: £48
Each Session runs from 1pm - 4pm
Non-members: £60
Members: £51
Book and pay online with your email and pin number.
Book by telephone on 01206 873250 using your debit or credit card.
If this is your first time booking online with Essex Sport you will need to create an account before you can play online.
Create your account and then come back to pay online to proceed with your booking.
Essex Sport Mens Football team
Essex Sport Basketball
Essex Sport Arena Basketball
Essex Sport Tennis
Essex Sport Arena Take Part
Climbing Wall
The Students' Union's Essex Blades are our sports teams who compete in British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) events.
From ultimate frisbee to football, from table tennis to trampolining, there are nearly 50 different sports clubs in the Students’ Union's Essex Blades, giving you plenty to choose from.
Most sports club memberships, training, match fees and travel expenses for BUCS matches are included in your basic University membership.
Kitted out in the county colours of red and black, there are more than 50 Essex Blades sports clubs and teams.
From ultimate frisbee to football, and table tennis to trampolining, there is plenty to choose from.
However, if you can’t find what you’re looking for and want to start a new club, please email the Student Activities office at vpactivities@essex.ac.uk .
We’re constantly on the lookout for passionate, motivated students to work with us.
Maybe you want to earn some coaching hours, gain experience in a fast and rewarding environment, or you just want to develop your CV.
Whatever the reason, get in touch to find out the latest paid and voluntary opportunities available with us: sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/student-accommodation:
Join us at the Athlete Village for 2025-2026!
Join us at the Athlete Village on Colchester Campus for 2025-2026!
We can't wait to welcome you.
The Athlete Village is the first of its kind in the United Kingdom and has been created for undergraduate students competing in the Essex Blades teams to be able to live together in the same area of campus, adjacent to the sports facilities.
By living in the Athlete Village, you will be immersed in a community of athletes and sports performers, and benefit from a supportive, encouraging, and exclusive environment designed to help you achieve your peak performance.
Both returning students who have previously represented the University in BUCS competitions, and new students who can evidence their level of performance in school, county or national level competition are welcome to apply to live in the Athlete Village.
Living in the Athlete Village you will also receive a comprehensive package of benefits worth over £700* to support your sporting endeavours, including:
*This offer cannot be taken in combination with any other offer, except for Win Accommodation competition.
If you would like to apply to live in Athlete Village, then you can apply via our accommodation application pages .
The Athlete Village is the first of its kind in the United Kingdom and has been created for undergraduate students competing for Essex sports teams to be able to live together in the same area of campus, adjacent to the sports facilities.
Both returning students who have previously represented the University in sports competitions, and new students who can evidence their level of performance in school, country, or national level competitions are welcome to apply to live in the Athlete Village.
British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS)
If you are a Sports Scholar or are planning on joining one of our BUCS teams and living in our campus accommodation but do not wish to live in the Athlete Village, then you can still apply for the 2 weeks pre-season training accommodation.
However, although this is not free, there is a reduction in the rent of £134.26, which is equivalent to a week’s rent in South Towers.
The dates of the period of stay will be confirmed to you, as well as your eligibility to apply.
Allocations to the Athlete Village and pre-season training, will be subject to eligibility confirmation by Essex Sport and the Students' Union and will be subject to availability.
We can’t wait for you to join us in our new and exciting Athlete Village and look forward to welcoming you into this amazing sporting community.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/the-tribe:
The Tribe is the official University of Essex student section bringing student fans together to stand behind all representative sport teams at Essex and create of the best home advantages in the country.
We proudly boast the proudest, loudest, and most inclusive supporters club in the UK.
You don't need to be a star on the court or out on the field to join The Tribe.
No matter where we play, or who we play, we make the gameday experience at Essex truly unforgettable and put you in the middle of the action.
Essex Students receive free admission to all Rebels and BUCS sporting events with their Essex I.D.
There's more to being a Tribe member than just leading chants, waving flags, and supporting our teams.
Your membership to this exclusive supporter’s club gets you the following:
If you want to join The Tribe or are interested in helping lead the student section, fill out our short form today.
Joining The Tribe is completely free.
You can pick up your official free Tribe t-shirts at one of our t-shirt drops throughout the year which will be communicated through our social media channels.
The first t-shirt drop will be at the Tribe Takeover Fanzone on Saturday 7 October, 4-5.30pm.
To receive up-to-date information about The Tribe and to be notified of all upcoming events, follow us on social media:
Follow Essex Blades on social media for the latest Blades news, scores and featured BUCS Showcase fixtures:

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/community-engagement:
At Essex Sport, we believe in making a difference locally and regionally both supporting grass routes sport and fitness, and in giving back to the region through use of our facilities and equipment.
Find us on Social Media and find out more about our activities
The Sports facilities at our Colchester Campus, include a state-of-the-art gym, fitness classes, tennis and squash courts, outdoor pitches and much more.
As well as outstanding facilities for sport, we also have the Essex Sport Arena - built to international sporting standards, it is also available to hire as a large event space.
We also provide sports holiday clubs for children too.
Our CHUMS sports camps for eight to fourteen-year-olds welcome children during the Easter, summer and Christmas holidays.
At Essex, we recognise the part we must play in supporting the community through sport, and recognise how our first-class partnerships with the region can support the local community through sport.
Our newly created partnership with Tendring Volleyball and the Essex Rebels, and our FA High Performance Women's Football Centre, supporting future coaches for the Women's game ensure that not only do our staff and students benefit from the work we do but so do our surrounding towns, villages and cities.
Working closely with our partners, Active Essex, School Game Organisers, Colchester Council, and national governing bodies, we provide a cohesive, educational approach to sport, health, and professional development across five focus sports: football, futsal, basketball, tennis, and climbing; drawing on the University's combined resources and knowledge.
We regularly visit schools and colleges to talk to children about the benefits of PE and sport education.
You will also often find us at a range of different events within the community promoting the work we do.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/membership/student-membership:
We’ve tailored our membership to suit every individual student’s need.
Our Gold, Silver and Bronze membership packages at our Colchester Campus offer a range of benefits for you to choose from.
Become a member today by purchasing a monthly Direct Debit membership.
Keep an eye out here for all of the latest Essex Sport student membership offers
From 16 September until 15 October, Essex students can enjoy an exclusive savings on Essex Sport Gold Membership.
Get unlimited access for only £21.99 a month (plus joining fee) - or grab the best deal at just £180 for the entire year.
Don't miss your chance to join Essex Sport.
T&C's Apply
The best student experience includes health, happiness, and success, and it’s waiting for you here at Essex.
Silver membership gives you off-peak access (before 3pm on weekdays) to the Essex Sport Gym and fitness classes, as well as any-time access to sports facilities, such as badminton, basketball and the climbing wall.
We receive weekly updates for any new students moving into accommodation, so keep an eye on your inbox for your log in details.
*With a Student Direct Debit membership, you pay nothing over the Summer with a 3 month 'payment holiday' from July to September.
With a Student Direct Debit membership, you pay nothing over the Summer with a 3 month 'payment holiday' from July to September.
Learning doesn’t just happen in the classroom; research conducted by British Universities & Colleges Sports (BUCS) and UK Active (.pdf), demonstrates that incorporating physical activity into your studies can help you;
Sport can help you be healthier, happier and more productive.
To sign up online you'll need your Essex email address and a PIN.
To request a PIN choose "Forgotten your PIN" at the start of the registration process.
You will be asked to confirm that you have read the terms and conditions (.pdf) and the health commitment statement (.pdf), so you may wish to do this first.
Life has to be flexible, so we think keeping active and healthy should be too.
That's why we offer a Direct Debit payment option, starting at just £17.99 a month* for Student Silver Membership.
You also pay nothing over the Summer with a 3 month 'payment holiday' from June to September.
To sign up please complete a Student Direct Debit form (.pdf) and return to the Sports Centre reception, where your direct debit instruction will be processed.
You can also join at the Sport Centre.
Just go to reception and a member of our team will be happy to answer any questions and process your membership.
Please note, we will be operating as a cashless facility and only card payments will be accepted on site.
We are updating our Induction Video, please speak to a member of staff to book in an induction.
Once you become a member and wish to use the gym, you'll need to watch our induction video below.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/membership/community-membership:
The University of Essex Sports Centre's excellent health and fitness facilities are all located within the Wivenhoe Park grounds.
A community membership includes access to facilities such as our climbing wall and tennis courts, we've got lots to offer.
Plus, all of our community memberships include free parking.
We are excited to announce that Blue Light Card holders, teachers, and employees at the Knowledge Gateway are now eligible for a concession rate gym membership with Essex Sport at the University of Essex.
To activate your discounted rate, please speak with a member of our reception team.
Choose from our three different membership packages, each with their own benefits.
£390 per year or £35.99 monthly by direct debit
£324 per year or £29.99 monthly by direct debit
£194 per year or £17.99 monthly by direct debit
£335 per year or £30.99 monthly by direct debit
£270 per year or £24.99 monthly by direct debit
£162 per year or £14.99 monthly by direct debit
For children aged 8 to 17 (if in full-time education).
Restriction apply, so please check the appropriate age restrictions (.pdf).
Proof of date of birth is required when applying for membership.
To purchase a junior membership, please visit/contact the Sport Centre Reception, as you may need to provide proof of age.
£227 per year or £20.99 monthly by direct debit
£119 per year or £10.99 monthly by direct debit
When joining online you will be asked to confirm that you have read the terms and conditions (.pdf) and the health commitment statement (.pdf), so you may wish to do this first.
You can also complete an application form at our Sport Centre reception at our Colchester Campus and pay in full.
You can pay for your membership by monthly direct debit.
You can set up your direct debit membership online when you sign-up.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/staff/sport-and-recreation/essex-sport-staff-memberships:
As a member of staff at the University, you have the option of choosing a Gold, Silver or Bronze Essex Sport membership, offering you access to our state-of-the-art facilities , including the Essex Sport Arena .
The new space, with seating for 1,655 spectators, offers international standard sporting facilities, suitable for staging televised sporting events, conferences, exhibitions and other large-scale events.
The Essex Sport Arena offers:
We also offer a spacious, fully air-conditioned gym with state-of-the-art Technogym equipment, 4 glass-backed squash courts , 250 metres of climbing space , 2 activity studios , and a variety of fitness classes .
View our latest fitness class timetable via the Essex Sport App , available to download from the App Store or Google Play.
We have an extensive range of outdoor pitches located within the University of Essex grounds and covering 40 acres.
Our outdoor sports area includes an 18-hole disc golf course, all-weather tennis courts and enough space to cater for large sporting events or a casual kickabout with colleagues.
You will be asked to confirm that you’ve read the terms and conditions (.pdf) and the health commitment statemen t (.pdf).
This is available to all staff, including those who are not on the University payroll.
You can set up your direct debit membership online .
You can also sign up at our Sports Centre.
Just pop into reception and a member of our team will be happy to answer any questions you may have and process your payment there and then.
Please note - we operate as a cashless facility; only card payments will be accepted on site.
We require at least one calendar months’ notice in writing in order to cancel a Direct Debit membership i.e.
if you would like to cancel for the following month, your cancellation request must be received no later than the 1st of the current month.
We kindly ask that you state your reason for cancelling, as we value feedback in order to improve our services.
Cancellation requests should be sent to scadmin@essex.ac.uk
For information on cancelling annual memberships, please refer to our terms and conditions (.pdf)
More information
For more information on the memberships and fitness classes we offer, please email or call us on 01206 873250.
Whatever type of fitness experience you’re looking for, with over 300 classes each month, you’re sure to find it in our timetable.
Whether you’re looking for a high-intensity workout like Cyclefit, Dance fitness and Insanity®, a conditioning session like Core and Stability, Metafit or Studio Pump, or our holistic classes like Pilates or Yoga, at Essex Sport our fitness instructors offer members an unrivalled range of expertly devised classes which utilise our fully air-conditioned, spacious and versatile fitness studios.
We also offer virtual classes for some of our yoga, cycling and conditioning sessions.
Find out more about our fitness classes
Essex Sport memberships do not cover Southend at this time.
University of Essex staff at the East 15 Acting School can take advantage of an exclusive discounted membership at Epping Forest's New City Fitness Wellness Centre , with no joining fee, no contract and no direct debit payments, just a £15.00 a month pay as you go membership.
How to Join:
The New City Fitness Gym is located next to the East 15 Acting School
Memberships can be topped up one month at a time or payments for multiple months can be paid in one go (at £15.00 a month).
The membership includes access to the New City Fitness Gym in Hackney.
This discount is exclusive for East 15 Acting School Students and Staff.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/performance-sport/basketball:
As a future basketball player for the University of Essex, you'll join one of the top student-athlete pathways in the UK.
Our dedicated and inclusive community offers personalised opportunities for your growth, both personally and athletically.
We have teams competing in BUCS inter-university competitions as well as our 5v5 league and intramural competitions.
Our Essex Rebels professional teams offer a premium platform for competition and game day experiences, providing numerous playing opportunities each week.
Our comprehensive pathway means teams train alongside each other, fostering a sense of unity and collaboration.
In the past eight years, our basketball program has achieved remarkable success and continual growth.
Beginning in 2016 as champions of the Basketball England National Cup, we went on to secure the BUCS National Trophy and claim the title of Champions in the Basketball England National League Division 1 in 2017.
Building on this momentum, we proudly became BUCS National Champions in 2022, achieving back-to-back victories in the BUCS Premier League from 2018 to 2022.
2023 has been the most successful season yet, with our women's professional team reaching the WBBL Betty Codona Trophy Final against London Lions and men's team making the semi-finals of the Basketball England National Cup.
Both our men's and women's teams are BUCS Premier South League Champions, with women's making the BUCS National Championship Final.
Our men's D3 team remained unbeaten all season and celebrate status as National Playoff Champions.
Making sure our student-athletes experience a fully supportive environment.
Undergraduate sport scholars: There is a dedicated section within the Athlete Village at our Colchester campus for our undergraduate sports scholars.
This is in Frinton Court and application to stay here is managed through our Performance Sport Team, please email - performancesport@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate sport scholars: For our international and UK postgraduate sports scholarship students there is exclusive accommodation at our Colchester campus, located in The Meadows and application to stay here is managed through our Performance Sport Team, please email - performancesport@essex.ac.uk
Our comprehensive basketball programme is designed to nurture talent and fuel your passion for the sport whilst offering academic support for athletes.
We offer fee waiver scholarships up to 100%, cash bursaries plus additional support packages to financially help support our sports athletes.
Applicable for high performance undergraduate or postgraduate student athletes playing at elite National Governing Bodies or Federation pathway programmes (Basketball England EABL, WEABL or international equivalent).
Under tier 1 of the Performance Sport Scholarship programme, we award a number of tuition fee discounts to students on University of Essex undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research courses.
Basketball Fee discounts for students commencing their studies at Essex in 2025-26* are:
*subject to change
Deadline for basketball scholarship applications for 2025-26 has now closed, and will reopen in October.
Sports bursaries are offered on a first-come, first-served basis and are linked to successful course applications at the University of Essex.
It's crucial to meet the academic entry conditions for your chosen course to be eligible for a sport scholarship.
It's essential to adhere to these deadlines to ensure your eligibility for a sport scholarship at the University of Essex.
Applications after this deadline will not be considered.
If you have any further questions or need assistance with the application process, please don't hesitate to email performancesport@essex.ac.uk
We are proud to be a Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme (TASS) delivery site.
As a Sport England funded partnership between talented athletes, the University of Essex and national governing bodies of sport, we work together to develop the best young talent within the UK.
The TASS Dual Career Accreditation Scheme recognises an education institution’s commitment to dual career support for talented athletes who are in full time education.
We are pleased to offer an enhanced level of academic flexibility and understanding to allow our athletes the ability to balance their studies with a demanding but rewarding sporting schedule.
Alongside a playing career, we also have a range of opportunities to support your professional growth, to navigate a path through placements including but not limited to Sports Therapy, Performance Analysis, Sport Science and game day support.
Coach Ashley Cookson has had a globe-trotting 16-year career steering sides in Sweden, Australia and Canada and is determined to bring further success for the University of Essex BUCS teams and the Essex Rebels.
He joined the University as Head of Basketball Performance in 2023, taking the reins of the women’s team and leading them to the BUCS National Championship finals in 2023, BUCS National Champions in 2024 and continuing their run as BUCS Premier League South Champions for the past 3 years.
In June 2025 we welcomed Joe Hart as the new Head Coach of our Men’s Basketball programme.
A former professional player with extensive experience across the British Basketball League and in Europe, Joe brings a wealth of on-court knowledge, leadership, and a fresh coaching perspective to the BUCS teams and Essex Rebels.
His passion for player development and commitment to high-performance basketball will be key as we take our programme to the next level.
Joe is driven to foster a winning culture and help our student-athletes excel on and off the court.
Sport scholars through our programmes have gone on to personal and academic success, venturing into professional playing contracts, coaching roles and rewarding employment opportunities.
During your time at Essex, seize the chance to elevate your transferable skills.
We provide platforms that spotlight your talents for potential employers in the UK.
Your journey extends beyond the courts, laying the groundwork for a successful and fulfilling career.
Read about some of the successful athletes, past and present on our Performance Sport Blog .
For more information on our performance basketball programme please email performancesport@essex.ac.uk .
For information on our professional basketball teams please email essexrebels@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/performance-sport/volleyball:
Playing volleyball at the University of Essex, you'll join one of the top student-athlete pathways in the UK.
We have men’s and women’s teams competing in BUCS inter-university competitions, including;
...as well as many other opportunities at the University for coaching, officiating and performance analysis within the volleyball programme.
Our Essex Rebels professional teams play in the National Volleyball Super League, England's highest level for volleyball teams.
Our comprehensive volleyball programme is designed to nurture talent and fuel your passion for the sport whilst offering academic support for athletes.
We offer fee waiver scholarships up to 100%, cash bursaries plus additional support packages are available to financially support our sports athletes.
Scholarships are highly competitive, therefore applicable to athletes who have played at academy, county, national or international level in the UK or equivalent in your home country.
Volleyball fee discounts for students commencing studies at Essex in 2025-26* are:
Deadline for volleyball scholarship applications is now closed and will reopen in October.
Former England Senior National and Great Britain Volleyball Captain, Coach Porter , leads the Performance Volleyball program at Essex, driving the Essex Rebels and BUCS teams to one of the most respected in the country.
Working closely with Assistant Coach Chinery, they guide the men’s and women’s teams to overcome both mental and physical obstacles, giving each the opportunity to develop their own passion and goals within volleyball, with a global outlook and supportive of each player's goals.
Since the volleyball program launched in 2013, of the 142 student-athletes, 25 have gone on to sign professional contracts and 30 have gained their first senior national team cap.
For more information on our performance volleyball programme please email performancesport@essex.ac.uk .
For information on our professional volleyball teams please email essexrebels@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/performance-sport/football:
Kickstart your journey with our athlete-centred program, integrating education for students looking towards a professional football career upon graduation.
Passionate about coaching and unlocking your potential, our football program cultivates a mindset that values growth over perfection, a commitment to training both the body and mind to tackle all challenges with a holistic approach.
Our men’s and women’s teams compete in BUCS inter-university competitions.
As we begin a new chapter building on the success of past seasons, we’re looking to improve performance across;
...as well as many other playing opportunities at the University.
Recent accomplishments;
Our comprehensive football programme is designed to nurture talent and fuel your passion for the sport whilst offering academic support for athletes.
Players within our programme have the opportunity to play in local clubs and teams with current players representing Billericay Town FC, AFC Sudbury, Cambridge Utd and Stanway Pegasus.
As part of our Women's Elite Sport Partnership collaboration supporting sportswomen in reaching their full potential, we are also linked with West Ham United women’s team.
Future student-athletes eager to grow, develop, and strive for personal excellence are able to apply for our sport scholarship from October.
Under tier 1 of the Performance Sport Scholarship program, we award a number of tuition fee discounts to students on University of Essex undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research courses.
Football fee discounts for students commencing their studies at Essex in 2025-26* are:
Women's
Men's
Deadline for football scholarships is now closed and will reopen October.
With over two decades of experience in elite football, Pawel Guziejko leads our men’s and women’s football teams.
His strategic leadership and commitment to player development will ensure you continue to thrive at the highest levels of competition.
Guziejko’s impressive credentials include roles at Premier League youth academies, his FA Advanced Youth Award, and his current pursuit of a UEFA A Licence.
He is eager to bring his experience to the University of Essex and support each player to reach their fullest potential, whether refining technical skills to building strong mental resilience.
Rosi Webb is Coach Development Officer for our FA women’s high performance football centre .
She is the highest ranked female coach in men’s football in England.
Your journey extends beyond the pitch, laying the groundwork for a successful and fulfilling career.
Our football programme is designed to help you prepare for either a career in football or carry on football in some way after your time here at the university finishes.
For more information on our performance football programme please email performancesport@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/performance-sport/tennis:
Immerse yourself in a professional and inclusive environment crafted to shape both your personal and athletic career on and off the court.
Our structured programme seamlessly supports your academic aspirations, ensuring a holistic and fulfilling experience.
Having focused on strengthening the teams, we’ll be looking to be promoted and set sights on a competitive cup run.
Our men’s and women’s 1st teams have multiple playing opportunities in:
..as well as many other playing opportunities at the University.
Since 2022 Nigel Parsons has lead the performance tennis programme, with the teams achieving:
We are a proud LTA partner university , offering a structured and balanced tennis programme that enhances your student and degree experience.
We provide increased opportunity for involvement, fostering employability skills, facilitating participation in suitable competitions and promoting a dual career path combining high-level training and competition with academic study.
Undergraduate sport scholars : There is a dedicated section within the Athlete Village at our Colchester campus for our undergraduate sports scholars.
This is in Frinton Court and application to stay here is managed through our Performance Sport Manager, Susy Davies at performancesport@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate sport scholars : For our international and UK postgraduate sports scholarship students there is exclusive accommodation at our Colchester campus, located in The Meadows and application to stay here is managed through our Performance Sport Manager, Susy Davies at performancesport@essex.ac.uk
Our comprehensive tennis programme is designed to nurture talent and fuel your passion for the sport whilst offering academic support for athletes.
A typical week will entail:
Players will also have access to:
We're on the lookout for student-athletes who are eager to grow, develop, and strive for personal excellence.
Tennis fee discounts for students commencing their studies at Essex in 2025-26* are:
*subject to change.
Deadline for tennis scholarship applications is now closed and reopens in October.
Performance Tennis Head Coach Nigel Parsons started coaching in 1998 after finishing his playing career.
He drives the tennis programme here at Essex, assisted by coach Jamie Champion, alongside his role running the Performance Program at Redbridge, Essex and Performance Liaison Officer for Essex Tennis.
He works with the top players in Essex as well as players at national level.
Our tennis programme is designed to help you prepare for either a career in tennis or carry on tennis in some way after your time here at the university finishes.
For more information on our performance tennis programme please email performancesport@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/disc-golf:
The first course in England and the eighth oldest in the world.
Disc golf is an exciting sport similar to traditional golf where players propel a flying disc towards a target.
Typically, disc golf is played on a course featuring either 9 or 18 holes where each player takes it in turn to throw their disk until they each reach the respective target.
Full details and rules on how to play the game can be found on the Disc Golf UK website.
On the Colchester Campus we offer a host of very accessible amenities open most days of the week, including food choices, toilets and showers.
The design philosophy is to offer players a world class experience: maximising all the advantages of a course set in an absolutely beautiful and historic English parkland setting; offering a big start, a mid-course challenge and delivering one of the most memorable finishing stretches in UK disc golf; and the course layout incorporates five unforgettable signature holes.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/colchester-gym:
Our gym is designed to inspire and motivate you to get fit and healthy.
With 160 fitness stations in a light, spacious and fully conditioned environment, and our friendly fitness team on-hand, you have everything you need to reach your fitness goals.
Regular exercise carries many physical and mental health benefits.
Going to the gym and combining cardiovascular and strength training exercise can help you to stay fit, control weight, reduce stress, improve your brain power, sleep better, and may reduce your risk of developing some types of disease.
Our student , staff and community memberships support you for a healthier lifestyle.
With 160 state-of-the-art fitness stations and over 300 fitness classes every month at Colchester, there truly is something for everyone.
Many of the cardio machines come with TVs and audio systems, so you can watch your favourite shows or listen to your music player whilst you work out!
Before you can access the fitness centres, all users must first watch the induction video below to ensure you know how to use the equipment safely and correctly.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/climbing-wall:
With 250 metres of climbing space you can take your fitness levels to the top.
Our climbing wall has bouldering and top roping facilities that can be used when overseen by a qualified instructor, or with proof of proficiency.
Not sure where to start?
Check out our courses below!
We offer beginner ropes courses, children’s climbing sessions, and private bookings.
If you already have the skills to safely use top ropes, auto-belays, and our bouldering area, then you’ll just need to pass our competency test and you’ll have access to our state-of-the-art climbing facilities.
The competency test can only be taken in person at the Sports Centre reception and must be completed with confidence to be allowed access to the climbing wall.
We reserve the right to refuse access if your experience level does not meet our expectations for safe use of the climbing facilities.
We do not currently offer equipment rentals, in order to use the climbing facility you will need to bring your own harness, belay device, climbing shoes, and rope!
Please call ahead before “walking-in” as clubs and courses are often using the climbing facilities.
To book the climbing wall please call reception on 01206 873250
Book on to one of our beginner ropes course.
If you’re new to climbing or have had an extended break, our beginner ropes courses will teach you everything you need to safely use the climbing facilities at our centre.
Our certified instructors will help you find your confidence on the wall by teaching you the basics of top roping, auto-belays, and bouldering.
By the end of the course you will then be ready to climb unsupervised at the centre.
You may bring children of ages 14+ who will count towards the capacity of the session.
Anyone under the age of 18 must be supervised at ALL times when using the climbing facilities.
We will provide all of the equipment whilst you’re learning, just make sure to wear something comfortable that lets you move around easily.
Please bring some water and lunch!
You will receive 6 hours total contact time (spread across 2 sessions) with a qualified instructor who will train you in the following areas:
By the end of the course, provided we are happy with your progress you will be invited to take a competency test which will go on record to allow you to use the climbing facilities without an instructor present.
Our climbing course runs as 2 sessions spread a week apart, each lasting 3 hours.
You must attend both sessions to complete the course.
There are 6 spaces on each course:
May Course
June Course
July Course
August Course
If our courses are full or you cannot make the date we offer then please get in touch via email climbing@essex.ac.uk and we will attempt to arrange an additional date if interest allows.
Utilising our brand-new climbing wall, our fun filled sessions provide the perfect springboard to get into climbing.
Children will learn the basics of climbing and bouldering.
These sessions will also promote safe practice within the climbing wall and nurture your children’s interest in climbing by providing a physical and mental challenge, encouraging them to reach new heights (literally!).
If you’d like to come watch your children climb you are more than welcome to do so!
Please let our instructor know at reception when they come to pickup your child.
Children must be age 8 or above, children under age 8 will not be permitted to take part.
When booking onto a course, you only book onto a single day of the week.
For example, if you book onto a Wednesday then you would attend the Wednesday sessions each week for the term.
We currently run the following children’s courses, with 10 spaces on each course:
We are now offering 6 to 13 week courses for you to choose from, these are now live*.
7 week course: 11 September - 26 October (£73.50)
6 week course: 6 November - 14 December (£63, *live to book from 7 October)
Full 13 week course: 11 September - 14 December (£130)
Ages 8-11
* Excluding October Half Term
Ages 12-15
Each term you will need to complete a consent form for your children’s participation in our climbing courses.
Please fill this in at reception at the start of each term, if this is not completed then we may not be able to allow your child to participate in the climbing sessions.
If you have any questions, or problems with booking on, please get in touch by phoning 01206 873250
We offer instructed private hire of the climbing wall for the following events:
If you’re interested in any of these events or something similar then please get in touch for more details regarding pricing and booking.
Please call reception on 01206 873250 or email climbing@essex.ac.uk
The University of Essex Climbing club is a student led club for current and past students and staff at the University of Essex.
These sessions are for all levels of experience and skill.
Equipment and instruction is provided.
See more information on how to join sessions and when these sessions run .
The Colchester Climbing club is a social climbing club that meets on a weekly basis, bringing together like-minded individuals with a passion for climbing and the outdoors.
Sessions are run for competent climbers who have the experience necessary to climb unsupervised, please get in touch with the Colchester Climbing Club before attending sessions.
If you are not yet able to use the climbing wall unsupervised then please consider taking one of our instructor-led courses before joining the Colchester Climbing Club.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/outdoor-pitches:
Set within 40 acres of university grounds which are dedicated to outdoor sports activities, we've got heaps of space for professional matches and a friendly kick about.
The area includes an 18-hole disc golf course, two rugby pitches, 5 football pitches, a cricket pitch and batting nets, and an artificial turf pitch for hockey and small-sided football.
Contact Essex Sport to make a booking: Email sport@essex.ac.uk or call 01206 873250
Approximately 40 acres of our grounds are dedicated to outdoor sporting pursuits.
Outdoor pitches
Lacrosse
Football
Hockey
American Football
With bronze, silver or gold memberships for students, staff and members of the public, we've got something for everyone.
Each offering unique benefits, you can choose which membership package best suits your needs.
Disc golf is similar to traditional golf, but instead of a ball and clubs, players use a flying disc or Frisbee to complete each hole in the fewest throws.
A golf disc is thrown from a tee to a Pole Hole, an elevated metal basket.
The player makes consecutive throws as he or she progresses down the fairway.
Trees, shrubs and terrain provide challenging obstacles for the disc golfer.
Our 18-hole course is the oldest 18 double-chained basket course in England.
It is spread throughout the Colchester Campus, where the mature parkland offers lots of challenges including the infamous lake hole!
The parkland is undulating with plenty of small woods, which have been well utilised for the course.
There is also a nine-hole course for beginners and children or for a quick practice round.
We are a regular host of the British Open Disc Golf Championship.
For more information visit Essex Disc Golf and the British Disc Golf Association.
You can obtain course maps and buy discs from Reception in the Sports Centre.
Cricket may be considered quintessentially English, but is now one of the world’s most popular sports.
Playing can improve endurance, stamina, physical fitness, hand/eye co-ordination, and improve your cardiovascular health.
Cricket is a great team sport and very sociable.
We have a cricket pitch with a wicket maintained to a level suitable for very high-level matches.
There are also two outdoor nets available.
To maintain practice and fitness during winter, we offer two indoor cricket nets and a bowling machine, which are available to hire in the Sports Centre.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/activity-studios:
Group classes are extremely motivating.
They can shake you out of a monotonous workout routine and help you to build different muscle groups.
Classes are a great way to meet new people, and keep you accountable as you work towards your fitness goals.
We have a range of fitness classes  in our three fitness studios, located in our Colchester Sports Centre, which can be adapted for a range of activities.
Studio 1 (2.9m x 8.44m) is suited to ballet, martial arts and more specialised fitness courses.
Studio 2 (12m x 12m) is our double-height studio, ideal for cheerleading, dance and fitness classes.
Our Cycle Studio is where a range of cycle classes, functional sessions and Virtual Fitness classes take place.
Our three studios, with wooden sprung floors and full-length mirrors, are suitable for a range of activities, including dance, martial arts and exercise.
Our fitness team offer personal training sessions from £30 per hour
Available for students, staff and the public
From Cyclefit to Insanity® and beyond

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/sports-hall:
At the heart of our Sports Centre is the sport hall which houses a full size basketball court, badminton, volleyball, netball and other court games.
You can book online below, or through our app that's available to download FREE on Apple and Android now.
Check out our superb sports facilities including our climbing wall and 23 courts

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/squash-courts:
According to Forbes, Squash has been found to be the world’s healthiest sport.
Just 30 minutes of squash gives you an impressive cardiorespiratory workout.
We have two glass-backed courts with a viewing area for you to hire.
It’s also lots of fun, and a perfect game if you have a healthy competitive streak.
Book the courts through our Essex Sport App today!
Join the Essex Sport squash leagues, free for members to join!
Open to all levels, our leagues offer a fun and competitive environment for everyone.
For more information or to join the leagues, contact the squash coordinator.
Squash Courts Essex Sport

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/tennis-courts:
We have four hard court tennis courts, which are located next to the Sports Centre.
The outdoor courts have floodlighting for evening use and are covered by a bubble during winter, allowing play to continue year-round.
Playing tennis regularly is an excellent method to keep in shape and develop your reflexes, agility, strength, and overall physical health.
Men should expect to burn 600 calories and women 420 during an hour-long game of singles tennis.
It's a low-impact sport that can be played for fun or as part of a team.
Book a court through the Essex Sport App available to download from the App Store and Google Play.
Essex Sport Tennis on social media:
How many tennis teams do we have?
Find out more about our scholarship offer and performance sport at the University
All Essex Sport gold and silver members also save 33% off all course bookings.
Friday
Members £48
Non-Members: £56
Under the direction of our LTA-certified Head Coach, our mini and
junior tennis programme in Colchester is one of the highest-quality
and fastest-growing in the area.
Find out more about the range of programmes available.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/southend-and-loughton:
We have an exclusive arrangement with Welcome Gym Southen d , offering students and staff discounted memberships for unlimited access to their extensive gym and wide range of fitness classes.
The Gym Group offer exclusive fixed-term student memberships with the gyms having everything you need to stay fit while studying.
The New City Fitness Centre is just a 7-minute walk from the Loughton campus.
Offering a flexible pay-as-you-go membership deal with no contract or joining fee.
Welcome Gym in Southend is a convenient, spacious, and well-equipped gym, offering amazing value, they provide over 40 ‘instructor-led' fitness classes, every week.
University of Essex students and staff can take advantage of a discounted membership rate at Southend's Welcome Gym, with no joining fee, and all classes included, for just £23.99 a month instead of their usual rate of £29.00 a month or get a 9 month membership for £152 instead of £190 with their 20% discount.
All you have to do is use the code STUDY2425 at the checkout to redeem the offer.
The Gym Group offers student discounts through UNiDAYS , this is a 5% discount on fixed-term memberships or 10% off and no joining fee.
You can redeem this offer by creating a UNiDAYS account and generating a code for The Gym Group this can then be used at checkout when purchasing your Gym Group Membership.
Essex Sport memberships do not cover Southend.
University of Essex students and staff at the East 15 Acting School can take advantage of an exclusive discounted membership at Epping Forest's New City Fitness Wellness Centre , with no joining fee, no contract and no direct debit payments, just a £15.00 a month pay as you go membership.
The New City Fitness Gym is located next to the East 15 Acting School.
T&C's Apply.
Essex Sport memberships do not cover the Loughton Campus.
Our exclusive agreement with New City Fitness Wellness Centre, includes a no joining fee, no contract and no direct debit payments membership, for just a £15 a month, pay as you go.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/facilities/womens-high-performance-football-centre:
The University of Essex is proud to be a Women's High Performance Football Centre in partnership with the Football Association (FA), aiming to improve the quality and quantity of coaches working in the women’s and girl’s game, especially those working in the FA Talent Pathway and Women’s National League.
Launching in August 2022 and working with partnership  clubs like Ipswich Town, Billericay Town, Hashtag United and AFC Sudbury Women.
Students will gain a hands-on football coaching experience – including work placements in coaching sports science, and sports therapy to boost employability and lay the groundwork for careers in women’s football.
Have the Lionesses winning the 2022 Euros inspired you to be the next Sarina Wiegman but perhaps you don’t know how to kick start your coaching journey, then we have the programme for you!
At Essex, we also have a range of different opportunities for our students that have a passion for sport.
From dedicated sport and exercise based courses to our performance sport scholarship opportunities where we can provide a range of different funding for select talented athletes in our five main performance sports of Basketball, Volleyball, Tennis, Football and Rugby 7s.
As well as this, our School of Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences is also home to our Sports Therapy Clinic providing both athletes and non-athletes alike the opportunity of rehab  with a range of different assessments and treatments.
BBC news article - Women's football centre in Essex unearthing 'hotbed of talent'
The University of Essex FA Women’s High Performance Football Centre is looking to recruit 14 aspiring female student coaches to gain a place on our new Female Coach Development Programme.
This is an exciting opportunity for female students that have a passion for the women’s and girls’ game who are looking to grow their knowledge and gain valuable experience.
We are giving 14 female students the chance to sign up to this exclusive 10-week programme that will give them the opportunity to develop themselves as coaches whilst receiving mentoring support from our Women’s and Girl’s Coach Development Officer.
The programme will consist of the following:
You must be able to commit to the following dates:
If you can commit to the dates above and have a real passion for the women and girls’ game, and want to start your coaching journey, then please fill out the sign up form.
Female Coach Development Programme

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/life/accommodation/campus/colchester/athlete-village:
The Athlete Village is a dedicated section of campus accommodation within a few seconds walk of our sports facilities, reserved exclusively for undergraduate students who represent University sports teams.
Check out the 2024-2025 prices.
As a member of a community of athletes and sports performers, you’ll benefit from a supportive, encouraging, and exclusive environment designed to help you maximise the benefits of being part of our sporting community and achieve your peak performance.
Both returning students who have previously been an active member of one of our sports clubs and new students who can evidence their level of performance in school, county or national level competition are welcome to apply to live in the Athlete Village.
The Athlete Village is located within our South Courts accommodation in Walton Court, located next door to our Sports Centre .
If you would like to apply to live in the Athlete Village, then you will need to select South Courts as your area preference in your accommodation application.
Please also select the option to live in the Athlete Village on the application form.
Living in the Athlete Village you will also receive a comprehensive package of benefits worth over £600* to support your sporting endeavours, including:
This offer is not available in conjunction with any other offer, apart from the returner cashback offer.
There is a dedicated section within the Athlete Village for our undergraduate sports scholars, but the above package is not available.
See below for alternative offer.
Please note that contract lengths vary in line with course dates.
Undergraduate courses are normally 39 weeks, however, some courses start earlier or finish later than others.
Athlete Village is located within South Courts accommodation in Walton Court and is near lots of green space to go for a jog and only a five-minute walk to the centre of campus.
This accommodation is ideal if you want the perfect balance between your academic studies and sporting activities.
Each of the the courses are arranged into flats with shared kitchens for four to fourteen students, providing a great social hub for our sports scholars to make friends and chat about your day.
The larger flats accommodating up to fourteen students have two or three kitchens shared between the flat.
South Courts accommodation were built at different stages and, therefore, can be different in appearance, as well as the size of flat.
Equally, rooms may slightly vary in size and layout, depending on where they are situated in the building.
Find out more about the South Courts Facebook group and view full address .
South Courts is located just a 5 minute walk from the centre of campus where you will find the Albert Sloman Library, SU bar, SU Shop, eatery outlets and plenty more.
It is also only a 2 minute walk to our gym and other sport facilities located on the edge of the University campus.
Our Performance Sport and Scholarship programme has been created for talented undergraduate and postgraduate athletes playing at regional, national or international level, and offers a range of benefits.
We want students competing in our focus sports (basketball, volleyball, tennis and football), as well as other team sports and individual athletes, to contribute to our ambitions for the performance sport programme.
Our scholarships can include fee discounts up to 100% or a cash bursary to help towards various costs, offered to athletes who demonstrate sporting excellence.
Those awarded a scholarship may also receive a host of other benefits, including free kit, access to state-of-the-art facilities, performance coaching, the option to live in our Athlete Village (accommodation fees may vary) and a support package valued up to £1,500.
These benefits are designed to help athletes focus on their training, and development, and to enable them to reach their full potential alongside their studies.
We offer a number of studio flats adapted for wheelchair users.
Find out more.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/news/2025/08/18/ballin-with-a-bobby-tournament-2025-an-amazing-success:
More than one hundred young  basketballers took to the court for an “amazing” tournament where pro players and police showcased skills and shared advice.
The finale of the Ballin’ with a Bobby project saw the Essex Rebels team up with Essex Police for the summer holiday showpiece.
The event marked the fifth anniversary of the Ballin with a Bobby scheme which has engaged with thousands of children across Essex.
Colchester’s Community Policing Team and the University of Essex professional players oversaw fun games and activities for the primary and secondary school aged children.
The free event, hosted at the Essex Sport Arena , also saw medals, basketballs, and lunches awarded to the youngsters.
Kids of all skill levels took part in competitive games and sporting workshops, whilst also enjoying safety and awareness talks.
Smiles all round
Youngsters on the court
British international and Essex Rebels guard Leah McDerment
A youngster goes for the ball
Essex Rebels ace Tyreese Hudson high fives children
Essex Rebels intern Luca Erzmoneit-Ide warms up the crowd
Organiser Liv Partridge, Sports Development Officer, said: "This was an amazing day which celebrated the very best of sport.
"It was such a joy to see children, professional players, and police officers inspire each other.
"Watching the kids grow as players, individuals, and members of the community is what makes Ballin’ with a Bobby such a special scheme,
"I just want to thank Essex Police, the Essex Rebels and all the children and families who helped make the day happen."
Liv’s thoughts were echoed by parent Chris Wilson.
"The Ballin’ With a Bobby Tournament was a fantastic day for both the kids and their parents,” he said.
"Young players had the chance to build their basketball skills under the guidance of an exceptional team of experienced coaches, who made learning the game both fun and exciting.
"The tournament offered a great opportunity to play competitive basketball in top-class facilities, while the learning sessions provided an engaging and valuable way for children and adults to boost their knowledge on staying safe - both in the community and online.
"It’s a true asset to our community, and we can’t wait for the next one.”
Dribbling in a game
Children with their medals and free balls
Big grins as the children get their medals
The event was open to boys and girls of all ages
The Essex Sport Arena hosted the game
The younger children after the tournament
The Ballin' with a Bobby coaches
The older group and the coaches
The Essex Police, Fire and Crime Commissioner-funded event was the culmination of 11 weeks of outreach where professional players and police officers hosted games in Colchester and surrounding villages.
PC Dex Adams, Colchester Community Safety and Engagement Officer, said: "What began as a simple idea to break down barriers between young people and the police has grown into an amazing community engagement programme.
"Ballin’ with a Bobby gives young people a voice and a safe space to connect with officers in a positive, informal setting.
"Basketball is an inclusive and accessible sport, and thanks to the free-to-use facilities provided by local councils, it’s something young people can enjoy without financial barriers—whether they’re shooting hoops solo or playing with friends.
"By meeting young people where they are—in parks, on courts, and in their communities—we’re able to build trust, promote healthy habits, and have meaningful conversations about issues that matter."
The tournament comes just weeks before the Essex Rebels launch the 2025/26 season on September 27, with general tickets on sale from Tuesday August 19.
Season tickets are now available and include more than 60 live home games across the Rebels' elite basketball and volleyball teams.
All pictures by Sanne Hoffman

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/news/2025/07/08/student-sportswomen-nominated-for-bucs-national-award:
Tue 8 Jul 25
Student athletes are celebrating after being nominated for a prestigious award following an unbeaten championship season.
The Essex Blades women’s volleyball team is in the running for the British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) National Team of the Year award after an incredible season on the court.
In a historic achievement, they became the first volleyball team in University of Essex history to win the BUCS National Championship title without losing a single match.
Their nomination comes during a record-breaking year for student sport at Essex, as it burst into the top 30 sporting universities in the country.
With the women’s side clinching gold at the BUCS Big Wednesday finals—alongside victories for the men’s volleyball and women’s basketball teams .
Explore the incredible day in the gallery below:
Invincibles: The women raise the trophy after a perfect season
The volleyball women savour the moment
Joy on the court
The women's basketball team celebrate
All the Essex winners enjoy the day
Reflecting on the season, women’s head coach Alex Chinery said: “I’m incredibly proud of this group to once again be nominated for the BUCS National Team of the Year Award.
“It’s a fantastic achievement, reflecting the effort of everyone involved this season.
“To win our first BUCS National Championship title and become the first team in programme history to do so undefeated is a fabulous accomplishment.
“It wouldn’t have been possible without the hard work of all the athletes and support staff who make this the best place to play volleyball in the country.”
The BUCS Awards will take place on July 17.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/news/2025/06/05/essex-rebels-announce-joe-hart-as-new-coach:
Thu 5 Jun 25
An Essex Rebels star player who represented Great Britain will coach the men’s team and inspire the next generation of basketballers in his home county.
Team GB forward Joe Hart, from Southend-on-Sea, will steer the D1 men’s side after long-standing coach Ross Norfolk stood down.
Joe is “proud to represent” Essex and wants to grow the game and develop new exciting talent.
The 31-year-old steps up to lead his former teammates after sharpshooting stints in Germany, Italy, and Spain.
On the attack
Proud - Joe in the Essex Sport Arena
Joe takes on a Bradford Dragons player
Passion - Joe cheers on Daniel Johnson-Thompson
Taking on Derby Trailblazers
All pictures above by Joel Tshiunza He joined the Rebels last year after a 12-year career which with sides like Plymouth City Patriots and Newcastle Eagles, where he won the British Basketball League Trophy in the 2016-17 season.
After joining Essex, he quickly became a fan favourite and has become heavily involved in the Rebels community, even coaching junior sides in his spare time.
Joe said: “I’m keen on development and I want people to come here get better and leave the Rebels in a better place whilst fulfilling their potential.
“I am passionate about the youth programme and helping talented players, my dream scenario is bringing someone in as an under-12 making it through to the first team and study at the university.
“I really want to help build the culture we have here and tap into the fact this is the South-East’s only professional club and we provide high-level Basketball to amazing fans.”
And added: “I just want to thank Ross for his time here it is cool to be in a position to follow in his legacy and pass on some of the lessons he taught me and continue the journey he started.”
Joe is set to build on his on-court success which saw the Rebels make it to the play-off quarter finals this season.
He added: “I’m a competitive person and everything I do I want to win, but I want to do things the right way.
“I want to compete in this tough league, we’re going to put together a great roster and I want to get the club silverware and compete in finals.”
The incoming coach was part of the history-making side as Essex hosted the Bristol Flyers in the Super League Basketball (SLB) Cup.
This landmark match marked the Rebels’ debut in the prestigious SLB Cup and their first-ever Friday night game at the Essex Sport Arena.
Director of Sport, Dr Dave Parry has praised Joe and believes he will help the Rebels build for the future.
Dr Parry said: “I am delighted to be welcoming Joe Hart to the basketball coaching staff at the University of Essex.
As an Essex boy we have followed his career closely and have been able to see his leadership qualities on the court up close over the past season.
"Alongside a stellar playing career, Joe brings experience in coaching roles gained from academy and university positions, right through to being an assistant coach in the British professional league, and he will be Assistant Coach for GB U16 Men this Summer.
"Alongside this experience, Joe has also part of UK Sport’s prestigious athlete to coach programme, further supporting his professional development.
"Essex Rebels have a successful track record of supporting young, up-and-coming coaches to develop their craft and achieve success, and I am excited to see how Joe can add his own chapters to the basketball story at the University of Essex."

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/showcase/how-we-started-the-green-exercise-revolution:
Our pioneering green exercise research has captured the interest of people around the world.
Health and wellbeing
Dr Jo Barton Dr Carly Wood Dr Mike Rogerson
Green exercise was born at the University of Essex.
The benefits of exercise for both physical and mental health were well-known, as was contact with the natural environment having positive effects on mental well-being.
In 2003, researchers at the University of Essex formally proposed linking the benefits of physical activity whilst at the same time being directly exposed to nature.
This concept was coined ‘green exercise’ and initiated a rigorous scientific research programme which is continuing today.
It is a concept which has also captured the interest of people around the globe as a solution to improve mental wellbeing for all ages.
Our Green Exercise Research Team includes specialists in physiology, health and well-being, environmental sustainability, community engagement and behaviour change.
They have worked on a wide range of research projects from international-level reviews through to individual project analysis.
We've worked with national charities like Mind, RSPB , Social Farms and Gardens , and the Wildlife Trusts through to local charities and organisations such as Trust Links , Green Light Trust and the Wilderness Foundation .
Cyclically informed by our academic publications, since 2020, our ongoing societal branch of the Green Exercise project aims to inform best practice and to generate positive impacts for partner organisations who provide green exercise programmes that seek to enhance public health and wellbeing and that of specific vulnerable groups (green exercise encompasses ecotherapy; nature-based programmes; wilderness therapy).
In turn, indirectly, we also generate positive impacts for attendees of those programmes.
For example, we recently partnered with Wilderness Foundation UK to codesign, pilot and evaluate a new, nature-based recovery programme for victim-survivors of domestic abuse.
Our work on this led to the programme being commissioned for a further 3 years, at three programme cohorts per year.
Our work with organisations such as the Wildlife Trusts and Future Roots also impacted upon organisational policies and practices and contributed to the success of subsequent programme funding.
“ (The Green Exercise Research Group’s) research was a game changer, enabling both the Wildlife Trusts as a whole and individual Wildlife Trusts, together with their partners and service users, to achieve results through improving evidence, advocacy work, policy and practice in nature-based interventions for health and wellbeing which had hitherto not been possible and would not otherwise have been achieved”
“The University of Essex's research was hugely influential in the development of The Wildlife Trust's health and wellbeing strategy.
The strategy’s framework is in those three pillars of everyday life, health promotion and green care as set out in the Essex reports [....].
Essex's 2017 report provided the evidence for development and implementation of the strategy” [S3].
It has also been used in The Wildlife Trust’s advocacy work “Essex’s 2017 report was our primary source of credible, independent, unequivocal evidence.
[...] in The Wildlife Trust's advocacy work with DEFRA and with the Department of Culture, Media and Sport.
The report and other work by the GE research team also provided the evidence for The Wildlife Trust’s response to the Government’s 25 Year Environment Plan (February 2018).
We also used the report in meetings when the plan was developed.”
- The Royal Society of Wildlife Trusts
“In Spring 2018, we were awarded GBP 140K by The Big Lottery Fund to run our Countrymen UK social franchising project”.
This was their largest award to date.
“We believe that our ability to evidence the efficacy of our original Countrymen’s Club project, via Essex’s report, and our own improved practices in line with its recommendations, were critical components that led to our Countrymen UK application’s success; feedback from the Big Lottery Fund indicated it to be highly unlikely that we would have achieved such a high level of funding to enable a UK-wide social franchising of our programme, without it.”
- Future Roots
Principal Investigator
We helped Essex County Council and Suffolk County Council use cutting-edge technology to predict risk, evaluate public service initiatives and target services for vulnerable people.
We are helping develop and assess services supporting vulnerable mothers facing recurring care proceedings.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/arena/about:
The £12 million Essex Sport Arena is a multi-purpose space, available for sporting events, conferences, exhibitions, trade and craft shows, celebrations, weddings and dance events.
The main arena has 2,076m2 of floor space (60m x 34.6m) and seating for up to 1,655 people.
It can be sub-divided into five separate spaces, giving full flexibility to suit your event.
On the first floor there is a 75m2 (12.5m x 6m) function room, bar and lounge area, ideal for hosting drinks’ receptions and smaller meetings, and a large glass fronted studio space over-looking the Arena that can be sub-divided in two.
The Arena is set in over 230 acres of beautiful parkland which, for the third year running, has been given a Green Flag Award for one of the best publicly accessible and green spaces in the UK.
Nestled within the parkland and still on campus you’ll find the luxury, 4* Wivenhoe House Hotel.
Just a 10 minute walk from the Arena it is perfect for business and pleasure alike.
Explore our £12 million innovative, multi-purpose space, available for sporting events, and other large-scale events
Wivenhoe House Hotel is only a 10 minute walk from the Essex Sport Arena so offers a perfect place for teams and management for some vital rest and relaxation after competitions and training sessions.
Find out how to reach us by car or public transport
The Essex Sport Arena affords event organisers state of the art sporting and dance facilities with modern, dynamic conference and meeting spaces on the first floor of the building.
The Arenas Main Hall can cater for a multitude of events from elite professional sporting fixtures, through exhibitions and conferences to awards evenings and dance competitions.
On site retractable bleacher seating provide seating for 1,655 spectators with additional flat seating available to provide viewing for up to 2,000 guests.
Site visits are welcomed and we have the expertise to help you configure your event to ensure your requirements are met in the most cost effective way possible.
Take a virtual tour of our outstanding facilities and the home to the Essex Rebels.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/arena/book-with-us:
These figures are estimates.
Please contact us for more information.
The Essex Sport Arena is a competition and spectator venue, built to international sporting standards.
It offers 20 courts, including basketball, volleyball, netball, badminton and futsal; with seating for up to 1,655 spectators.
The arena and entertainment areas can be hired for county, regional, national or international sporting competitions and training camps.
The main arena is ideal for staging televised sporting events, offering a giant video entertainment screen, integrated sound system, LED lighting, and a performance analysis system, which can be used for live-streaming events in HD.
Other features include a Dynamik sprung floor; height adjustable drop down and rollout basketball goals, international specification volleyball, netball and futsal equipment, and a customisable scoreboard.
If you’d like to add a drinks’ reception to your event, this can be hosted in one of our entertaining spaces on the first floor; either in our function room or in the bar and lounge area.
A fully fitted kitchen and on-site catering is also available.
The Arena is home to the Essex Rebels professional basketball and volleyball teams.
The newly formed School of Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences is also located within the Arena.
The Essex Sport Arena has 4 spacious changing rooms located on the ground floor next to the main hall.
Additionally, there are two smaller changing rooms that are located on the first floor for match officials.
The Arena offers 2,076m2 of floor space which can be divided to create up to five smaller spaces, making it ideal for exhibitions, trade shows, craft and bridal fayres, family fun days, car shows, proms, and any other large-scale event.
With seating for up to 1,655, the space is also perfect for entertainment, sporting displays, product launches, company conferences or shows.
The Arena offers a bar and lounge area, and a separate 75m2 function room.
A full kitchen and on-site catering service is also available.
The large foyer provides a versatile registration and reception area, which can be branded to your event.
The Arena event space is perfect for all types of dance events including dancesport, cheerleading, contemporary, tap and Irish dancing.
Whether you’re looking for space for rehearsals, workshops, classes, auditions, or photo/film shoots our Arena, with fully sprung floor and optimum acoustic resonance, provides a flexible space to suit your individual requirements.
With seating for up 1,655 people it is also perfect for performances and competitions.
Set within 200 acres of beautiful parkland, with one of the largest venue spaces in Essex, and stunning hotel accommodation within the grounds, the Essex Sports Arena is the perfect location for your special day.
The Arena is ideal for large-scale weddings, spaciously seating up to 1,000 guests.
It offers a separate reception room for arrival drinks, and the flexibility for parties to make use of their own caterers.
Consider this versatile space your blank canvas to make entirely your own.
The Essex Sport Arena also includes collaborative work spaces for the use of students and staff.
Essex Rebels Tactics Room

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/performance-sport/other-sports:
Embracing a diversity of sporting talent, we are actively seeking student athletes engaged in BUCS team sports and individual athletic pursuits, to welcome into our performance sport programme.
Our athletes and teams compete in BUCS inter-university competitions.
Having focused on strengthening opportunity and performance, we’ll be looking to be push a Top 25 place within BUCS.
We champion a holistic approach to education, where the pursuit of academic excellence works together with the demands of athletic training.
Our cutting-edge facilities and committed coaching staff are dedicated to nurturing well-rounded individuals who thrive both academically and athletically across various sports disciplines.
Some key highlights so far as we celebrate the first term of 2023-24;
Our comprehensive sports programmes are designed to nurture talent and fuel your passion for sport whilst offering academic support for athletes.
Scholars can also have access to:
If you're up for the challenge and meet the academic eligibility criteria, we have fee waiver scholarships up to 25%, cash bursaries plus additional support packages available to financially help support your time here with us.
Details and Deadlines
Deadline for scholarship applications has now closed and will reopen October.
If you have any further questions or need assistance with the application process, please don't hesitate to email performancesport@essex.ac.uk .
Alongside a playing career, we also have a range of opportunities to support your professional growth, to navigate a path through placements including, but not limited to, Sports Therapy, Performance Analysis, Sport Science and game day support.
Your journey extends beyond the playing field, laying the groundwork for a successful and fulfilling career.
Our performance programme is designed to help you prepare for a future career in or around your chosen field some way after your time here at the university comes to an end.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/news/2024/07/11/essex-is-top-30-in-the-country-for-sport:
Thu 11 Jul 24
Essex is now one of the UK’s top 30 sporting universities for the first time in its 60-year history.
The University is celebrating its highest ever ranking in the British Universities and Colleges Sport table and the highest points ever scored.
More than 700 students have contributed to the national success across numerous sports with Essex’s volleyball, basketball, football and tennis teams delivering particularly strong performances.
The news comes as the University of Essex further establishes itself as the leading sporting institution in the Eastern region.
With the record-breaking ranking coming the same year the University launches an elite women’s professional cricket team with Essex Cricket .
And follows the Essex Rebels men’s basketball side placing second in the top tier of the National Basketball League and the women’s team competing in a cup final for the first time.
Their success was echoed by the professional volleyball teams – with the men and women both making it into the play-off finals .
All of this builds on the establishment of the region’s only FA Women’s High Performance Centre – which is helping to transform female football .
Tennis ace Carlos Corser cheers
The Blades football team and FA lead coach Rosi Webb
The Blade's basketball team celebrating
The women's tennis team after winning in Portsmouth
The Essex Rebels volleyball team
Essex is one of just six institutions in the top 30 with less than 20,000 students, and of those is the leading institution in England where over 90 per cent of students come from state school.
Director of Sport Dave Parry said: “Our students have demonstrated their Essex Spirit in performing so brilliantly in BUCS this season.
“This is a momentous achievement for the University of Essex and really cements our position as the East’s home of sport.
“I want to thank everyone who made this possible it was a real team effort, and a testament to the passion and dedication of the entire team.
“For a mid-sized institution that selects students on their potential, we are really punching above our weight.
“To be competing at such a high level is testament to the talent and determination of our students and the amazing work done by staff in both the Students’ Union and our sport department, Essex Sport in supporting them.”
The student competition sees young sportspeople from across the country compete in a wide range of events from athletics to surfing.
The University ranked 29th this year after competing in 22 different disciplines across the year and scored a total of 1759.5, a 16 percent increase from last season.
The teams compete under the Blades banner with over 700 students competing in over 80 teams across the season.
“This success is well deserved recognition for the incredible student athletes we have at Essex and their winning spirit in everything they do," said Joar Blume-Robertsson, VP Student Experience in 2023-24 for University of Essex Students' Union.
"As a Students’ Union we support 47 student-run sports clubs to compete against other universities and this record-breaking season is something that we can all celebrate.
Our students and staff have worked so hard to achieve what we hope will be a continued rise up the rankings, showing great resilience and ambition, and we honestly couldn’t be prouder of them"
Top photo by Hamsika Pagadala

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2025/03/28/performance-sport-strength-and-conditioning:
Our Performance Sports programme is dedicated to helping student-athletes reach their full potential.
A crucial part of this journey is our expert Strength & Conditioning (S&C) support.
Introducing one of the key figures behind the scenes, our S&C coach, who works closely with our performance teams and elite scholarship athletes.
Jemma completed an undergraduate degree in Sports Therapy from the University of Kent in 2019 before pursuing a master’s in Strength & Conditioning at Middlesex University in 2020.
She is Lead Sports Therapist for Chelmsford Chieftains Ice Hockey Team, Thurrock T-Birds RFC, and Dagenham RFC.
At Essex, she works alongside Head S&C Coach Justin Mills, collaborating with head coaches to develop athlete-specific training, address injuries, and set goals for our performance sports teams and sports scholarship athletes, including:
When I was younger, I dreamed of being a professional athlete, but due to many injuries, that wasn’t possible.
Sport has always been a huge part of my life, so I wanted a career that allowed me to be involved in professional sport but as part of the support team.
My experience with physios meant I understood the protocols of rehab and wanted to be that support for someone in the same situation.
As well as physio, I have always loved training in the gym.
So, studying for my masters in Strength and Conditioning appealed as I could merge S&C and Sports Therapy which helps with the return to play aspect of rehab, and I was able to broaden my career path.
Seeing my athletes achieve their goals.
Whether that’s to win a trophy at the end of the season, to get their team promoted, hit a personal best in the gym or even come back from a serious injury.
All the hard work put in to help them get to where they want to be and achieve their dreams is the most rewarding part.
The endless hours, late nights, highs and lows, all become worth it when they’re standing there with a medal around their neck.
I have been told a few times in my life that women have no place in professional sports, especially within a male environment.
I have been told that it is inappropriate, that we won’t be respected, and that we don’t understand what it is like to be a professional athlete.
But if anything, that has fuelled me more to prove them wrong.
I was the first woman to be employed by the AELTC to work in the performance gyms at the Wimbledon Tennis Championships and I helped manage the gyms for 3 separate tournaments.
I have predominately worked for men’s teams (Rugby and Ice Hockey) and been the only woman within that environment, building relationships and finding a way for the coaches and players to trust and respect me.
I do feel that as a woman, I have to prove my worth and my abilities more than a man would, but if I find myself in an environment where I’m not treated with respect, then I leave and find somewhere else that does appreciate and treat me as equal.
Follow your dreams, and don’t let anyone tell you you’re not capable!!
If you want to be the head coach of a men's or women’s team, or physio for a professional team, or any role within sport, do everything you can to put yourself in the right place.
Volunteer for all the local teams, get experience, complete as many courses as it takes, and then build experience and connections.
Working in sports takes sacrifices - late nights, unpaid work, long hours, working weekends, standing on the side of a pitch in the rain.
If you can prove to people that you are loyal and committed through all of that, then you will achieve anything you want.
Women’s sports have skyrocketed within the past 3-5 years.
The media coverage and the support female athletes are starting to receive has been phenomenal.
It’s breaking down barriers and showing the world that women can do it just as well and that we are worth investing in, allowing more opportunities for women in leading coaching roles.
However, across all professional sports teams in the UK (men & women), only 14% have female head coaches, compared to less than 10% from 10 years ago.
There is still a long way to go to bridge the significant gender gap, but it is heading in the right direction.
There have been many proud moments since working at Essex.
A recent proud moment was witnessing 3 of our performance teams (men's & women’s volleyball and women’s basketball) become BUCS National Champions.
Image: 2025 BUCS Big Wednesday Champions (Photo: @sanne.hoffman.photography)
But my proudest moments have been working with my para-athletes.
Mustafa & Emily are both blind/visually impaired and on scholarship programmes.
Mustafa plays blind football for England, and Emily is a VI Judo athlete on the Paralympic pathway.
I am so proud of the relationships I have built with them, to build trust and for them to allow me to push them out of their comfort zone.
Mustafa can easily jump onto a 35-inch box unassisted, and Emily can deadlift nearly twice her body weight and trains under the GB Paralympic coach.
I’m really excited to see what we can achieve next.
Discover how our Performance Sport programme at Essex can support your overall development.
Follow our student athlete's journey on Instagram @uniessexperform .
Sport scholarships and bursaries.
We are committed to supporting and developing high performance athletes.
Find out whether you could be eligible for a sport scholarship or bursary , plus a range of additional benefits too when you join the University of Essex.
Scholarships Marketing and Recruitment Officer, University of Essex
Essex Sport, Marketing and Student Recruitment, Michelle Rushbrooke
17 July 2023
Categories: Performance Sport, Sport and Fitness
Categories: Performance Sport

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/news/2024/04/26/essex-rebels-scoop-basketball-gameday-of-the-year-award:
Fri 26 Apr 24
It’s a three-pointer for the Essex Rebels after winning the best gameday experience for the second year in a row from basketball’s national governing body.
The prestigious award for the National Basketball League 1 men’s matches comes after the side celebrated their most successful season ever.
The team are toasting an incredible season with the highest place finish, 2nd place, the Rebels have seen, going 20 – 4 for the regular season.
The Rebels men have also reached the NBL Cup Semifinal for the first time ever and recorded their highest average home attendance with over 660 fans per game.
Zain Poorman going for glory
Victor Olarerin shooting
The cheering crowd
Cheerleaders entertain the fans
A packed Essex Arena
And comes just weeks after the Rebels announced a groundbreaking partnership with Essex Cricket to launch a professional women’s side – which highlighted the incredible experience inside the Essex Arena.
Following this achievement, Basketball England highlighted the “great atmosphere” and popular performances that have wowed crowds,
Dr Dave Parry, Director of Sport, has praised his team for the storming season during the University’s momentous 60th anniversary.
He said: “It is a tremendous honour to have been awarded the best gameday experience by Basketball England for the third year.
“Sport is at the heart of everything we do here at Essex and this year has seen us further establish the University as the region’s leading sporting institution.
“Coming to watch the Essex Rebels is so much more than just a basketball game and is a showcase of everything that makes the University of Essex special.
“To win this honour again as the University celebrates its 60th anniversary makes it even sweeter.
“Thank you so much to my backroom team, the Rebels players, and the fans for making sure we took this home again.”
His thoughts were echoed by Fan Engagement and Matchday Entertainment officer Stanley Kadzunge.
He said: “Our game day experience is something that we take pride in and it's great to have it recognised by the league.
None of this happens without the incredible work behind the scenes of the Essex Sport team.
“This is a testament to our game day entertainment staff, outstanding DJs, our front of house team and most importantly, the incredible fans that bring the energy to our house, every single weekend.
“A big shout also goes to the team who have had a fantastic season and really put on a show for our fans.
“Their engagement with the community this year has been amazing as well as our ever-great student population.
“We hope to continue improving with our game and we want to make sure we grow the game in the East of England and provide a great and welcoming experience for everyone.”

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/news/2023/04/24/rebels-win-gameday-gong:
Mon 24 Apr 23
The Essex Rebels have won the prestigious ‘Best Gameday Experience Award’ from Basketball’s national governing body.
The prestigious gong comes just weeks after the Essex Arena hosted an incredible 1,505 cheering supporters on International Women’s Day, setting a record in the Women’s British Basketball League .
And this also followed an incredible two-day festival of women’s basketball in January that saw the U.K.’s top teams descend on The University of Essex for a thrilling tournament .
Following these achievements in the women’s game, Basketball England has now awarded the Essex Rebels the prize for the men’s National Basketball League 1, highlighting the “great atmosphere” and popular performances that have wowed crowds.
Dr Dave Parry, Director of Sport, has thanked his team for the storming season and is already planning on how to improve it for next year.
He said: “It is a tremendous honour to have been awarded the best gameday experience award by Basketball England.
“We have been continuously developing and refining our entertainment package around our game day for the past few seasons so that the experience of coming to watch the Essex Rebels is so much more than just a basketball game.
“This year we have also firmly positioned our game days at the heart of the campus experience for our students, and have very successfully launched a new supporters club called ‘The Tribe’, a first of its kind in the UK.
“With over 900 members, and led by an enthusiastic student committee who have organised a range of social events away from game days, the Tribe has become a new social opportunity for our students to forge friendships alongside supporting our teams.
And added: “Front and centre of our game days is our very own, and best-in-the-business, Stan Kadzunge, alongside the famous Nate ‘Big Dog Ballin’ Syrett, but our game days are a big team effort, with the whole Essex Sport team pulling together to put on something really special each week, and my congratulations and thanks go to the team behind the team.”

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/news/2023/03/13/rebels-record-breaking-crowd:
Mon 13 Mar 23
The Essex Rebels smashed an attendance record this weekend and won in front of the largest home crowd the women’s basketball league has ever seen.
Families, students and basketball fans of all ages flocked to the Essex Sport Arena on Saturday to celebrate International Women’s Day.
An incredible crowd of 1,505 packed out the University’s Colchester campus to enjoy a day of festivities for the Women’s British Basketball League clash.
The unparalleled crowd beat the Rebels' previous record by roughly 800 with spectators enjoying street food, live music and a bouncing fan zone.
The elite female side ran out against Leicester Riders and secured a double victory - as the Riders were the previous record holders having brought 1,312 to their clash against the Sevenoaks Suns earlier this month.
Director of Sport Dave Parry said: “The Essex Rebels International Women’s Day Special was a truly extraordinary occasion.
“The record-breaking crowd were treated to an intense battle between two teams of outstanding female athletes, with the result going down to the very last second of the game.
“The fans also played their part, providing a huge home advantage, and roaring the Rebels towards victory.
“This day was so much more than a basketball game, however.
“The flawless delivery of a packed entertainment show around the game, led by the best-in-the-business Stanley Kadzunge and Nate ‘Big Dog Ballin’ Syrett wowed the audience.
“Hundreds of children flocked to the court at the end of the game to meet their heroes in the Rebels team will undoubtedly have been inspired, and everyone in the Essex Sport Arena shared a ‘goosebump’ experience that will live very long in the memory.
“I want to heap praise on the staff team at Essex Sport and behind the Essex Rebels, breaking the professional league attendance record in such style is the result of everyone going well and truly above and beyond.
Bravo everyone!”
The dramatic encounter was the Rebels' first home game since the departure of long-serving head coach Tom Sadler .
Megan Haines sunk a pair of clutch free throws to edge the Rebels ahead in the final minute before the visiting Riders missed four in a row of their own to fall to a costly defeat.
Vice-Chancellor Anthony Forster said: “This is a great achievement for women’s sport, for interest in the UK in women’s basketball, and especially the quality of this Essex Rebels women’s basketball team.
“The Essex Sport Arena is home to some amazing teams, but clearly offers one of the very best game day experiences in the UK.
“I want to thank Dr Dave Parry, our Director of Sport and everyone who helped make this a special celebration of International Women’s Day.
Thank you.”

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/categories/performance-sport:
Hear from our talented athletes taking part in the University of Essex Performance Sports and  Scholarship programmes.
Understand more about how our staff team and coaches can push your limits.
12 May 2025
09 May 2025
28 March 2025
27 January 2025
27 November 2024
15 November 2024
15 October 2024
08 October 2024

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2025/07/23/from-injury-to-captain:
Choosing where to study is a big decision, especially if you want to combine academic success with high-level sport.
At the University of Essex, our Performance Football Programme gives student-athletes the chance to compete, develop, and thrive alongside their studies.
For those applying through Clearing , Essex offers an incredible pathway — from access to top coaching and strength & conditioning support, to the opportunity to represent the university at the highest level.
Here’s one student’s journey from serious injury to becoming men’s first team captain while progressing into postgraduate study.
Three years ago, I joined the University of Essex to study Sports Performance .
At the time, I had no intention of playing football again after a serious ACL and meniscus injury that had side-lined me for 14 months.
But after being approached by the university's coaching staff, I gave it a shot and haven’t looked back since my first training session.
With the support of the physio and Strength & Conditioning coaches, I was able to make a return to high-level football, something I wasn’t sure would be possible again.
Their guidance was instrumental in my recovery and progress.
This year, the Performance programme took another step forward with the arrival of our new coach, Pawel .
His experience and fresh approach helped lead us to an unbeaten season and promotion back to Tier 1.
I’ve decided to stay on the programme next year alongside my postgraduate studies.
The decision was easy.
Essex offers a unique balance between elite sport and academics.
As team captain next season, I’m excited to lead the squad, grow the programme, and continue developing as a player and coach.
If you're considering applying through Clearing or still unsure where to study, I highly recommend Essex.
It’s helped me grow both as an athlete and as a person.
If you’re looking for a place where you can be treated like a professional while earning your degree, it’s a no-brainer.
If you’re an aspiring student-athlete looking for a place to push yourself academically, and in your sport, Essex could be your perfect match.
Follow our student athletes’ journey on Instagram @uniessexperform
Sports scholarships and bursaries
Find out whether you could be eligible for a sports scholarship or bursary , plus a range of additional benefits too when you join the University of Essex.
Categories: Performance Sport, Alumni
Categories: Alumni, Performance Sport

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2025/05/12/alumni-football-scholar-talks-essex-to-argentina:
For many student-athletes, university is more than just an academic journey.
It’s a chance to push limits, grow personally and professionally, and set the foundations for a successful future.
Shanie Marion, a former MSc Sport and Exercise Psychology student and sports scholar, embodies this notion perfectly.
Now a self-employed Mental Performance Consultant and full-time football player based in Argentina, her story highlights the impact of Essex’s Performance Sports Programme in shaping ambitious athletes into professional people.
Choosing the right university is about finding the perfect combination of academic distinction, elite sport opportunities, and a supportive environment.
For Shanie, Essex ticked all the boxes:
“The program was exactly what I was looking for.
The teachers seemed passionate, and the classes were interesting.
The coach of the women’s football team also convinced me that Essex was the right place for me."
Managing competitive sport with academic commitments is no small feat, but Shanie mastered it through organisation and discipline:
“Every time I had some free time, I used it to advance in my readings or assignments.
Planning ahead is key—even if an assignment is due in two months, start early, collect data, do readings, and get informed.”
The ability to balance priorities is something Essex nurtures in its sports scholars, providing them with time management skills that carry over into professional life.
Beyond the classroom and training grounds, Shanie found the chance to form strong connections with teammates and develop as a person:
“I’ll always remember the times training in the rain or the freezing cold, still laughing with the team.
The friendships and support network I built at Essex were invaluable.”
We are proud of our sporting community for building strong, lifelong friendships and creating a network that lasts beyond university.
Now running her own business in mental performance while playing football full-time, Shanie credits her time at Essex for equipping her with the knowledge and skills to apply it in real-world scenarios:
“I had the opportunity to be a sports scientist frontrunner at Essex, an experience that taught me data analysis and how to explain concepts to different audiences.
My MSc also helped me understand the key principles of my field and how to connect with clients.
My experience as a student-athlete taught me to be organised, crucial even now when juggling multiple responsibilities.”
For those looking to pursue both academia and elite sport, Shanie’s advice is simple and effective:
“Always stay one or two steps ahead.
Use your free time wisely, plan assignments in advance, and be prepared for the unexpected.
When you’re organised, you stay in control.”
Shanie’s journey is far from over.
Currently working towards her Mental Performance Consultant Certification (CMPC), she continues to build experience and expertise in her field, to support more athletes in optimizing their mental game.
19 September 2024
21 December 2023

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2025/05/09/from-essex-to-la-postgrad-scholar-and-baller-for-life:
When former NCAA Whittier College basketball player Journey Shank made the leap from the US to the UK, he chose the University of Essex for his postgraduate studies.
Extending his playing career and opening a new chapter, this alumni reflects on how studying and playing in the UK helped shape his mindset, broaden his perspective and set him up for running his own business, back in LA.
Essex was the right place to grow both on and off the court because I was able to pursue my postgraduate studies and extend my basketball career.
The opportunity to live overseas is something I wanted to experience and being near London was a great location to play basketball at a high level.
It was a one-of-a-kind experience to be a part of the Essex Rebels basketball program.
From the moment I got there, I was welcomed by my teammates and coaches.
Being in that competitive environment around professionals allowed me to elevate my game to new heights.
The basketball culture at Essex created a brotherhood on and off the court, I’m grateful I was able to be a part of it.
I believe what sets Essex Basketball program apart is the attention to detail in the preparation for the season.
I believe my time in Essex shaped me personally and as a professional because of the way I was challenged to be my best in the classroom and on the court.
Being around like-minded individuals learning how to be a professional was a big step in my path.
I recall Derby Day, and how it was special to be a part of that event.
Being able to spectate different sports and connect with others was a fun experience; the energy was unforgettable.
I’m grateful for the memories and the people I met along the way.
I believe Essex changed the game for me from a life perspective.
Essex helped me mature and broaden my knowledge.
Living and studying abroad taught me higher levels of independence, resilience, and how to connect with people from different backgrounds.
It opened my eyes to the importance of self-work and devising a plan for my future.
Spending time alone and creating a whole new routine outside of my comfort zone allowed me to lean on my core values to help me be the best version of myself.
JS3 Hoop Training is a sports performance brand focused on the skills development of youth athletes, centred around health and wellness.
In my training program, I work with all ages and skill levels to help athletes reach their full potential.
my business mantra is, “Be you and embrace the journey”.
That statement reminds them to always be themselves, and to embrace the path they’re on.
I take pride in helping each athlete grow, and that’s why I wanted to create a business bigger than myself.
My business was formed out of my passion for the game and a desire to give back after sustaining two major knee injuries.
I wanted to create a space where athletes could develop their skills, mindset, and confidence.
The same way I had mentors pour into me, it’s a full circle moment to give the game back.
Essex played a big role in helping me see that I had the tools to build something of my own.
Being at Essex helped me reshape my vision on how I approached my goals, both in basketball and in life.
I left with more clarity and purpose to make an impact, which directly influenced the next steps I took with my business.
The discipline, time management, and strategic thinking are valuable skills I carry over in my business every day.
Whether I’m designing a training session or managing the business side of JS3, the lessons I learned in both the classroom and on the court are still with me.
Essex taught me to be intentional and to lead by example.
Go for it.
Studying abroad is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to grow in ways you can’t even imagine.
Essex offers a supportive environment to challenge yourself academically and athletically.
Being open to the experience could shape your future in amazing ways.
It meant everything.
Being able to celebrate that milestone, even virtually, was a blessing.
It reminded me of all the hard work, sacrifice, and growth that happened during my time at Essex.
It was emotional, and it made me feel truly connected to the community, even from across the globe.
It means being part of a lifelong network.
Essex isn’t just where I studied, it’s a place that helped shape who I am.
Staying connected allows me to use my platform to keep Essex a part my journey, and stay inspired by others doing great things around the world.
We’re expanding!
I’m working on launching new programs and reaching more athletes across LA and beyond.
I’m also exploring international partnerships, possibly bringing JS3 to the UK one day.
The goal is to keep growing, keep impacting lives through basketball, and keep the passion alive.
I have ambitions to create something special with my brand, and I’m excited for what the future holds.
Thank you for the opportunity to do this interview and shout out to Essex for the support!

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/childrens-activities/chums-holiday-camp:
Are you looking for ways to keep your young ones entertained and active during the school holidays?
If yes, one of our holiday camps could be for you.
Our popular CHUMS holiday camp caters for children aged 5 to 11 years old, and our brand-new Uni-Active Sports camp for ages 12-15 years old.
Both our popular multi-sport camps take place during the Christmas, Easter, and Summer school holidays, and welcomes over 300 young people each year.
Our aim is to make the school holidays as fun, safe, and exciting as possible.
We take enormous pride in the memorable experience we provide for your children; supporting them as they learn new skills, try new sports, and make new friends.
Our CHUMS holiday camp will return for easter and the summer holidays in 2025 with a range of different activities for your little ones to grow, develop and make new friends.
There will be lots of sports on offer, arts and crafts, and fun weekly themed activities.
If you’re new to CHUMS and between the ages of 5-15 years old, find out more about how to book * with us today.
Bookings and final dates to be confirmed*
Our brand-new Uni-Active Sports camp takes the CHUMS experience to the next level offering an immersive, fun and rewarding sporting experience.
Uni-Active days will spend more time learning new skills in sports you already know, as well as trying some sports that you may never have done before.
The camp offers a range of over 25 sports and activities for your child to learn and develop new skills utilising the Universities state of the art facilities.
Children will compete throughout the week to win points for excellent teamwork, effort, and attitude – with awards and prizes to be won every week!
If you’re new to UNI-ACTIVE and between the ages of 12-15 years old, find out more about how to book * with us today.
Wednesday 23 July to Friday 29 August
Drop-off: 8.30am-9am
Pick-up: 5pm-5.15pm
Our early bird offer run until 22 April
If you are new to Children Camps, you will need to complete a children's registration form (.pdf) and return to reception by emailing screcept@essex.ac.uk .
Once registration is complete, we can process your payment and book your place.
If your child is already registered, bookings for Children  Camps can now be made online via your account .
To log in you will need your email address and 4-digit PIN.
If you don’t have this to hand, please contact us on 01206 873250 or email sport@essex.ac.uk
View our booking instructions video or follow the steps below:
Parents can also book via the Sports Centre reception by telephoning on 01206 873250, and paying using a debit or credit card.
Please make sure you and your child are familiar with our new Terms and Conditions (.pdf) and Code of Conduct (.pdf).
By booking a course or Pay and Play session, you are agreeing to adhere to these.
We’re always looking for new staff to work on our multisport holiday camps.
These jobs are ideal for anyone looking for seasonal work and with an interest in sports coaching or working with children.
We offer support and training, opportunities to develop and a competitive pay.
If you’re interested in working with us drop us an email at chums@essex.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/childrens-activities/junior-climbing:
We have many opportunities for children aged 8 onwards to explore the challenging and rewarding world of climbing.
Learn the basics by joining our junior climbing programme, book a fun-filled climbing party, or get your school involved and make use of one of Essex’s best indoor climbing walls!
Prices:
We are now offering 7 or 13-week courses for you to choose from; these are now live.
12 Sep - 24 Oct
13 Sep - 25 Oct
*Excluding May Half-Term
Climbing is not only a great way to improve strength and fitness, but it's a great confidence booster and way to improve focus.
Student climbing aims to:
For more information on our work with schools email sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk or head to our schools page .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/childrens-activities/junior-courses:
We offer a range of after-school and weekend introductory sport courses, specifically designed to help your child learn  core skills and progress their abilities in their chosen sport.
Courses run for 6 to 13 weeks during each academic school term and are instructed by our qualified, DBS checked coaches.
We also offer drop-in sessions on a 'pay-as-you-go' basis; a great, flexible way to try out a new activity.
All courses and Pay and Play sessions are held at the University of Essex, Colchester Campus and take advantage of the fantastic sport facilities available to us.
Starting week commencing 8 September.
Limited spaces available, book now!
7 Week Courses:
13 Week Courses (Excluding October Half-Term):
Session Times:
Find out more about our Pay and Play climbing sessions on our Junior climbing webpage .
Whether you have just picked up a racket for the first time or want to develop your hone your skills as part of a comprehensive tennis pathway, Essex Sport Tennis has something for everyone.
Based at our 4-hard court all-weather tennis facility at the University of Essex, our programme offers a thriving and wide-ranging tennis offer that caters for all tennis ability levels at all ages levels, led by our expert and experienced team of LTA qualified coaches.
More information can be found on the Junior tennis webpage .
Our 'pay and play' basketball session is a great way for your child to try an exciting sport, where they can develop their social skills and meet new friends, without committing to a full course.
These sessions are popular, so we recommend booking in advance!
Introducing our new summer sessions every Wednesday from 6-7pm.
Available to book now!
Junior tennis
Junior basketball
Junior climbing
Junior futsal
Junior dance
If space permits, taster sessions may be accommodated for a course.
These must be pre-agreed by the Sports Development team.
To arrange a taster session, please email sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk .
For tennis, please email tennis@essex.ac.uk
Demand for places is high and some courses sell out quickly.
If you would like to join the waiting list, please visit or contact the Sports Centre Reception on 01206 873250.
You will be contacted if a space becomes available.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/childrens-activities/junior-parties:
We offer two specialist children's party packages, giving you and your group exclusive access to our excellent climbing wall and our one-of-a-kind Essex Rebels professional basketball gameday experience.
All parties have access to a private Party Room where you can enjoy  food, refreshments, and cake to celebrate your little one’s special day.
Our experienced Essex Sport Party Team will help take the stress out of the organising your party, and deliver an exciting and memorable experience.
We offer parties for 5-16 year olds, all hosted by our Party Coordinators who have extensive experience in delivering fun, safe, and enjoyable children's sessions.
Choose from:
Please note that food and beverages are not provided, however, you may bring your own for use in the party room.
One of our most popular party packages, you'll experience a variety of fun climbing-based activities, games, and challenges in the bouldering cave and main climbing area.
Under the expert supervision of our qualified instructors, you'll begin with a safety talk and warm up, before having the opportunity to belay, traverse and climb the wall!
Climbing parties can be booked for groups of up to 10 children.
Participants must be aged 8 or above.
You will have 90 minutes activity time, plus 1 hour in the party room.
£150 for up to 10 children.
Make your special occasion even more memorable with one of our Essex Rebels Gameday Party packages.
Our packages are designed to give your child a unique experience that you won’t get anywhere else, offering exclusive benefits and behind-the-scenes access to our professional teams, making their day truly unforgettable.
Our party package offers an unforgettable day full of basketball action, exclusive perks, and behind-the-scenes access to our professional teams.
What’s included:
Enjoy all these exclusive benefits for only £250!
Parties usually start 1.5 hours before tip-off.
For more information on available fixture dates, please email our Sports Development Coordinator sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk
We have lots of extras and add-ons available to suit your needs and make your party even more fun:
To book your party, please fill in an Essex Sport Junior party booking form (.pdf) and return it to the Sports Centre Reception, or email the completed form to sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk .
Once processed, we will contact you to confirm your booking.
Please allow seven days from submission for a member of our team to confirm your booking.
We're here to make sure your child's special day will run smoothly.
If you have any questions about parties or submitting your form, please don't hesitate to contact our team on 01206 873250 or sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk
Please allow seven days after submission for a member of the team to get back to you.
All party bookings are subject to availability and we will do our best to accommodate your booking.
Once you receive confirmation that your party has been accepted, we will request payment to guarantee your space.
Yes, we offer a 10% discount on junior birthday party bookings for University of Essex staff and students, as well as for Essex Sport public members.
Yes, there is a maximum for each type of party, please refer to the package list above.
Parties with more than 16 children will incur an additional £40 charge.
Any changes to the booking must be confirmed at least seven days before the party date, as well as any dietary or medical information needed.
No, Essex Sport does not supply food for parties, however, you may bring your own food for use in the party room.
If you use an external caterer, the University of Essex will not accept liability for any damages, costs, losses, claims, expenses, demands and proceedings, as stated in our Terms and Conditions (.pdf).
In addition to our activity areas, which include two sports halls and a climbing wall, we also provide a party room that you can decorate with balloons, banners, table cloths, etc.
and prepare and consume food.
We will arrange the room with tables and chairs to accommodate your party size, and can also provide music systems and party music, if requested at the booking stage.
We can only accept cancellations with at least seven days notice ahead of the party date.
Cancellation requests must be written and sent to sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk or posted to the Sports Centre.
Depending on your reason for cancelling, we will try our best to accommodate your party at another date or time.
You must cancel with at least seven days notice to receive a full refund.
Cancellations made within seven days of the party date will not be refunded.
Please see our Terms and Conditions (.pdf) for full details.
Car parking is available at the University of Essex.
Charges apply Monday - Friday 9.30am - 4.30pm.
Please see the campus map (.pdf) for directions.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/childrens-activities/junior-tennis:
Led by our LTA Level 4 qualified Head Coach, Jamie Champion, we run one of the highest quality and growing mini and junior tennis programmes in Colchester.
Covered by a 'bubble' during the winter, our state-of-the-art hard tennis courts allow play year-round.
Our 6 week tennis courses starts commencing 15 September.
Blue
6-week course led by an LTA qualified coach.
this course introduces children to the basics of the game through a series of fun activities to develop balance, coordination, agility, movement, and racket skills.
Red
This course is taught on smaller courts with short rackets and soft balls.
It's just like the real game and gives players the opportunity to have rallies and practise different types of shot.
Orange
6-week course led by an LTA qualified coach, This course is played on longer, wider courts, and is a great way to continue the progress from mini red.
Players can expect to develop a well-rounded game and improve racket and ball skills, technique, and tactics
Yellow
Player development continues from mini tennis to our junior programme; exploring the full game and controlling space, shots, and time with the faster yellow ball and full-sized racket.
20 Sep - 25 Oct
*Excludes October Half-Term
Essex Sport has developed a strong relationship with Wivenhoe Community Tennis Club, offering opportunities for friendly weekend matches, opportunities to complete in local leagues, and access to weekly access to community social sessions.
Members and non-members can book a court to play tennis at Essex Sport.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/sport/community-engagement/schools-and-community:
Our school and community outreach projects are dedicated to making a meaningful impact, enriching lives, and fostering positive change.
Through our community-focused initiatives, we engage children and young people, inspiring them to reach their full potential—both in sports and in life.
Since 2005, we have significantly developed our community and schools offering with the expansion of CHUMS , our popular holiday camp, and the continually evolving Essex Sport Junior programme, which engages over 500 children through after-school and weekend clubs.
We are now bringing Essex Sport to the community with opportunities to visit your school or establishment!
Our school packages bring professional athletes and experienced coaches directly into your school, creating memorable experiences that complement your PE curriculum and enhance your students' development.
We would love the opportunity to partner with your school to empower the next generation to lead active, healthy, and confident lives—both on and off the court.
Bronze = £450
Silver = £850
Gold = £1650
Choose your package:
Contact our team:
Customise your experience:
We will work with you to:
St Thomas More's Catholic Primary School
St Thomas More's Catholic Primary School taking part in Essex Rebels Roadshow
If you would like to speak to someone about how you can get involved with our schools and community outreach programme, please contact the Sports Development team on 01206 873157 or email sportsdevelopment@essex.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/registration:
We can’t wait for you to join our University of Essex family.
Follow our step-by-step instructions:
Once your student record is set up, you’ll get an email from us to confirm your Essex IT account (@essex.ac.uk) is ready for collection.
This will be approximately six weeks before your course starts.
Complete this step as soon as possible as it unlocks access to your University email account, as well as a range of other systems, including our Online Pre-Registration system.
To set your Essex IT account up, you’ll need your Personal Record Identifier (PRID) and your passphrase.
These are the same details as you used in the My Essex applicant portal.
As a new student you'll need to complete Online Pre-Registration before your course starts.
Once in the portal, you'll be asked to complete key steps in the Pre-Registration area.
We’ll ask you to provide a photo for your University ID card (known as a Registration Card), as well details on where you’ll be staying during term time and emergency contact details.
These are all essential in enabling us to get your Student Record setup.
It's essential you complete this as soon as possible and before you attend your In-Person Registration appointment, as we won’t be able to confirm your registration without this.
You should also take the time to familiarise yourself with our Registration Regulations .
One of the compulsory steps of registration is ensuring the University is in receipt of the required amount for your tuition fees, before you can begin attending teaching and accessing other resources.
If your studies are being funded by Student Finance England or another sponsor , make sure you have submitted any required application forms, evidence or returned any required agreements to them.
Your funding should then be in place ready for you to complete registration.
We are notified if you are receiving funding when you enter the 'Fees' section of our Online Registration system.
You will still be presented with the total annual fee for your course, as this will be the amount charged to any funding body, but you will not be asked to make payment of this amount in our system.
It is important to note that once you are registered and should your circumstances change, and any funding application is rejected at a later date for example, you will become liable for the tuition fees for your course.
If you are funding your own studies or receiving funds from a funding source that requires you to make payment to the University , you should ensure you have made arrangements to make this payment with adequate time for this to clear before the start of term.
Further information can be found on our how to pay your fees page.
You can also pay your tuition fees in our Online Pre-Registration portal using our Webpay system to make credit or debit card payments.
Or our Flywire system to make a tracked bank transfer.
After completing Online Pre-Registration and paying your tuition fees, you’ll need to attend an In-Person Registration appointment.
You’ll need to complete this step after you arrive on campus and before you attend any teaching events for your course.
We must see you in-person to be able to confirm your registration as an official student (please note the only exception to this is if you are registering on a distance learning course or a modular course with no in-person teaching.
In which case you’ll be supported with completing these steps remotely).
Depending on the time of year and location you are registering, you may need to pre-book an appointment to see us.
You can find out how to pre-book an appointment in the information below for the term you're starting your course.
As a new student, you’ll need to complete a Right to Study Check before you can officially register for your course.
This is so we can verify your identity and ensure where required, you have the correct immigration permissions to study with us.
The Right to Study Check consists of a review of your original ID/immigration documents and where required, these will be recorded on your student record
If eligible, you will be invited to upload your ID/immigration documents via the Right to Study Check area in our Online Registration portal.
You should try to do this as soon as possible and where possible, before you arrive on campus.
If you are not eligible to upload your documents online, we just need to see these documents at your In-Person Registration appointment.
Your Right to Study Check area will provide you with information to help you prepare the documents you need to bring with you.
At your appointment, we’ll need you to bring your ID/Immigration documents (.pdf) with you and these must be original/hard copy documents.
We will not confirm your official registration as a student until you have attended your In-Person Registration appointment and completed your Right to Study Check.
Registration for Autumn Term 2025 opens on Tuesday 2 September 2025.
Term starts on Thursday 2 October 2025.
Registration for courses starting in October 2025 opens on 2 September 2025.
Please note some courses may have earlier start dates, but you will be advised by your department where this is the case.
Our Registration Hubs on Colchester and Southend Campus will be open during Welcome Week to enable you to complete your In-Person Registration Appointment.
There are a number of ways you can prepare for the start of term, including familiarising yourself with the steps needed to complete registration for your course and ensuring these are completed at the earliest opportunity.
It is particularly important to complete Online Pre-Registration and make payment of the required tuition fees before term starts and then be on campus, ready to attend your in-person registration appointment (where your registration will be confirmed) at the start of term.
Once you've completed all the online steps in our Registration process and you've arrived on campus, you will need to attend an In-Person Registration appointment.
Details of where and when you can complete your Registration appointment are below:
From Tuesday 2 September to Tuesday 23 September – You can complete registration at our Student Services Hub, on the First Floor of the Silberrad Student Centre – You do not need to pre-book an appointment to attend this Registration Hub.
From Wednesday 24 September onwards – You will need to pre-book an appointment to complete registration at our Colchester Registration Hub.
You will be sent a link to book your appointment after you have completed your Online Right to Study Check.
From Monday 15 September to Friday 26 September – You can complete registration at the Student Services Counter, on the Second Floor of the Forum.
You will need to pre-book an appointment to do this.
From Monday 29 September onwards – You will need to pre-book an appointment to complete registration at our Southend Registration Hub.
On Friday 26 September – Our main registration event will take place for East 15 Acting School students taking courses at Loughton Campus.
You should plan to arrive and attend campus on this day, to complete in-person registration.
You will be emailed a link to pre-book your appointment for this session during the first week of September.
From Monday 29 September – If you are unable to attend our main registration event, you can complete registration at our Student Services Hub, on the Ground Floor of Hatfields House.
Term starts Thursday 2 October 2025.
Where possible, please make arrangements to be able to arrive, register and begin attending classes from the start of term.
Where you are unable to arrive on campus by the start of term, due to exceptional circumstances beyond your control , then you must ensure you arrive by the Latest Registration Deadlines listed below.
If you're an international student and cannot get here for the Latest Registration Deadline then do not travel .
You should contact us immediately via visaquery@essex.ac.uk
Monday 3 November 2025
Information on how to register for Spring Term 2026 will be available nearer the time.
Term starts Monday 12 January 2026.
Online Pre-Registration for courses starting in January 2026 opens in December 2025.
Don't forget to complete your Online Pre-Registration before you arrive.
The Registration Hubs on our Colchester and Southend Campuses are open during Welcome Week to enable you to complete your In-Person Registration appointment.
Once you've completed all the online steps in our Registration process and you've arrived on campus, you'll need to attend an In-Person Registration appointment.
We'll publish information on where and when you can attend your In-Person Registration appointment at Colchester Campus on this page soon.
We'll publish information on where and when you can attend your In-Person Registration appointment at Southend Campus on this page soon.
We'll publish information on where and when you can attend your In-Person Registration appointment at Loughton Campus on this page soon.
Term starts on Monday 12 January 2026 .
Our latest registration dates for the Spring Term 2026 will be published here as soon as they are available.
Term starts Monday 20 April 2026.
Online Pre-Registration for courses starting in April will be published here nearer the time.
The Registration Hubs on Colchester and Southend Campuses will be open during at the start of term to enable you to complete your In-Person Registration appointment.
Student Services Hub, First Floor of the Silberrad Student Centre – You do not need to pre-book your appointment to attend this Registration Hub.
Student Services Counter, Second Floor of the Forum Building - You'll need to pre-book your appointment to attend this Registration Hub.
Term starts on Monday 20 April 2026 .
Our latest registration dates for the Summer Term 2026 will be published here as soon as they are available.
As a returning student you will need to complete Online Registration at the start of each academic year to ensure you can continue to access and teaching for the next stage of study on your course.
You’ll also need to complete Online Registration if you are a student returning from a period of intermission.
Please note that in instances where you may have undertaken summer reassessment (i.e.
in August or September), you will not normally be able to re-register for your course until your resit results have been published by the Board of Examiners.
You may encounter an error code where you attempt to register before this.
For further information on completing the registration process as a returning student, please visit our returning student registration page.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/checklist:
Before you join us there are a few things your need to complete and organise to make sure you are ready for University.
The check list below will give you everything you need.
More detail registration information can be found on our Welcome pages.
More detailed registration information is on our Welcome pages.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/commuting:
For many, living at home and commuting to University can be a brilliant way to save money on accommodation, stay close to your family and friends and still enjoy all the benefits University life brings.
It'll also provide you with a greater opportunity to support your family or friends should you have any caring (or other) responsibilities at home too.
Whilst it might be tempting to not come to campus during Welcome week, it's strongly recommended you do so.
Take advantage of the events and activities and use this time to meet like-minded individuals and friends who will shape what your next few years with us might be.
Before starting your studies you need to register , which includes completing the online pre-registration and attending an in-person meeting with your ID.
Registration confirms that you will be joining us for the academic year and will unlock essential services and information, including your IT account and your timetable.
If you’re travelling to one of our campuses by train or bus then downloading their app can give you easy access to etickets, timetables, and alerts for delays to services.
Public transport companies with services on or near our campuses include:
If you’re travelling by car then check out which parking apps are accepted near our campuses (Colchester campus has parking on site which can be paid for with the ParkSmart app).
You can also check if your breakdown cover has an app you can download, this can make it easier to get in contact if you get stuck on the side of the road.
You may feel that there is very little to bring with you if you're a commuting student since you aren't moving into a campus room.
However, there are a few things you should consider packing in your bag when you're coming on to campus, whether it's for welcome week or for your lectures:
If you’re driving or cycling, then don’t forget to do some essential maintenance.
Check your tyres (pressure, punctures, tread etc) and lights, check the oil and water in your car, and check your brakes if you’re cycling.
For those of you cycling to Colchester campus you can also make use of Doctor Bike , who visits every Wednesday in term time.
You can get a free check to make sure your bike is in good condition or pay for some repairs to be done while you’re in class.
Commuting students have the same access to campus events and Students' Union activities as those living on our campuses.
During Welcome Week and beyond there will be a host of things on our campuses that you will be able to join in with, such as:
If you’re planning a long study session, have an early Monday morning lecture, or want a night out at the SU then consider booking a room overnight.
Both Colchester and Southend campuses have university accommodation that can be booked on a short-term basis , and it saves you needing to sprint for the last train home.
Campus is really easy to get to by car and we are well served by major roads in and out of Colchester.
There are two main entrances to the campus, each have their own car parks commuting students can use.
Student parking on Campus is free during Welcome week.
But you’ll need to pay to park once Welcome is over and term begins.
Paying to park on campus is through our app - as a commuting student you can register your vehicle for a cheaper rate, otherwise you'll need to pay the more expensive visitor rate.
You can register your vehicle during Welcome week.
More information, and how to register can be found on the Student Information Directory.
Loughton is easily accessible via the London Underground (Central line), it is also easily reachable via bus and coach network.
More information on how to get to Loughton can be found on our visit pages.
Information for new students joining East 15 can be found on the East 15 website

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/departmental-induction:
Each department has a tailored induction to welcome you to your course, meet your lecturers and classmates, and help you settle in.
Find your department below to explore your full schedule.
This welcome to your department is a unique and compulsory chance to find out more about your degree, to talk with key members of staff like your personal tutor or supervisor, and to meet the friends you're going to be studying with at Essex.
Are you studying more than one subject?
If you're studying a joint degree, you should access key support through your home Department or School.
If you're not sure which is your home Department, you can find out on MyEssex.
There's plenty to get involved in during Welcome Week including our Freshers Fair, Part-time Job Fair and loads more so be sure to take a look at the wider University Welcome events and Students' Union events .
We're still finalising some of our induction events for 2025.
If you can't see your department below, don't panic!
We'll be adding more in the coming weeks and you'll receive an email with a link to your department page once it's live.
Online Pre-registration opens from 2 September.
This is an essential part of your Essex journey for both new and returning students.
Just follow the simple steps and you'll be ready for the new academic year.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/colchester:
There's no place like home.
Our Colchester Campus will be your home for the next few years and Welcome Week is your chance to explore the campus, orientate yourself with the University and make friends for life.
Get ready to join the Essex Community?
Once you've completed your registration , you'll have full access to everything on offer during Welcome Week which runs from Monday 29 September - Friday 3 October 2025 .
This includes access to the online Welcome Portal which has information on how to get started in your studies and the resources available from our student services.
Welcome Week is your chance to get informed, have fun, make friends and get ready for the next few years with us.
Your departmental induction is your essential opportunity to learn more about your department and your course, and to talk with key members of staff like your personal tutor.
You’ll also have the chance to meet the people you’re going to be studying with.
Your department will be in touch before you arrive with more details and we’ll also be sharing everything on our events pages.
Information may be shared with you by email or Moodle (our virtual learning platform that can be accessed once you have set up your Essex email account).
For more information, please see your department's induction webpage:
The highlight of everyone's Welcome week is the Freshers' Fair, your chance to join societies, meet local businesses, and University services and of course get to know your Students' Union .
There will be loads of Welcome activities for you to get stuck into to help you settle in and get to know other students.
Check out all the events on the University events calendar and the SU events calendar .
We’re extremely lucky our Colchester Campus is based in a 200 acre award-winning parkland which provides an excellent outdoor escape where you can meet people, get some exercise or have a picnic.
Get to know your new home and the local area:
Keeping fit and taking part in sport keeps both body and mind healthy.
From tennis to yoga, dance classes to climbing, there will be plenty of opportunities for you to get involved in sport, recreation and green exercise programmes.
To find out what's on offer, visit our Essex Sport pages .
You will be able to volunteer and make a positive impact on the local community with our Students' Union VTeam (Volunteering Team).
There will also be a variety of one-off programmes delivered throughout the year, such as photography workshops, art workshops, origami workshops, card games, karaoke, virtual celebrations of cultural events.
At Essex, we have your student nightlife completely sorted.
Grab some food in the SU Bar , play darts in Top Bar , catch a film at Cine10 or party up in our very state of the art on-campus nightclub, Sub Zero .
We have a range of different events and activities taking place on campus and online during Welcome Week.
The perfect chance for you to make friends, meet like-minded people and orientate yourself around the campus and where you'll call home for the next few years.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/southend:
Let us help you from A to B and explore the local area:
To find out what's on offer, visit our sport page .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/arrivals/arriving-at-colchester:
There's a lot to take in when you arrive.
Here are some suggestions to help you feel as prepared as possible and make the most of your start at Essex.
Complete your Essex IT account setup and then your Online Pre-Registration .
Once you've completed this step, you’ll have access to our online Welcome portal where you can start exploring where you’ll be studying for the next few years and meet your department.
Also before you go, check out all our essential pre-arrival information .
Once you've completed Online Pre-Registration you’ll also need to attend an In-Person Registration appointment on campus.
This will include completing a Right to Study check , registering you as a student and issuing your Student Registration Card.
The appointments will take place at specific Registration Hubs located on each of our campuses and appointments will usually be managed by a booking system that you will be given access to once you have completed Online Pre-Registration.
One of the first things you’ll probably want to do when you arrive is get settled into your home.
Here's what you need to do get your accommodation key:
The earliest date you can move into your accommodation is the date specified on your letter of allocation.
Find out more about collecting your key, luggage, parking and moving into your new accommodation .
As a student studying on a course for more than six months, you're required to register with a local doctor throughout your period of study if you live on campus or in the local surrounding area.
Check out everything that's going on during your first week at Essex during Welcome Week .
Are you a parent, guardian or family member?
Here's some helpful information to put your minds at rest.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2025/08/14/what-to-pack:
You’ve accepted the offer, you’ve got the accommodation confirmed, and you’re now counting down the days until you can come to campus, move into your new room, and start making friends.
But what should you bring?
There’s only so much space in the car and your Mum probably won’t let you take the sofa with you.
Here’s a few handy lists to help you work out what you should think about packing (we haven’t mentioned clothes because it should be obvious.
Please do bring your clothes with you.)
We provide bedrooms with standard furniture; a bed with mattress, desk and chair, shelves, wardrobe, a bedside lamp, and a bin.
There is also a hoover stored in the kitchen area.
Your room will be a blank canvas that you can personalise with items from home.
To make sure you have a comfortable first night (and many more after!) you will need to bring the following:
Smoking and vaping are not allowed inside any building on campus, including in accommodation.
This includes bedrooms and communal areas such as the kitchens and hallways.
Kitchens in our accommodation are set up with a fridge-freezer, a cooker, a microwave, and a kettle and toaster (and a sink), as well as a social area with tables and chairs.
You will need to provide your own tools including:
Keep in mind though that much of this can be dependent on what kind of cook you are.
If you are a “chuck some fish fingers in the oven” cook then you’re less likely to need a cheese grater.
But if you prefer to unwind by making a fresh Bolognese and a batch of cookies then measuring spoons and several saucepans will be essential.
If you’re not certain what you use regularly, try to make a note as you use things at home in the weeks before moving day.
If you arrive, start to unpack, and realise you’ve forgotten something essential (such as your duvet), then don’t panic.
Whichever campus you’re on, there will be shops nearby.
At Colchester Campus the Students’ Union has several shops on the Squares and there is a large Tesco and a Home Bargains off-campus but within walking distance.
At Southend there’s a Sainsbury’s just over the road from University Square, and the town centre is in easy walking distance.
You can also get parcels delivered to your campus accommodation.
You will receive an email when something is waiting in the post room for you to collect (you will need to pick them up yourself).
There are also some Amazon delivery boxes available just off Square 3 on Colchester campus.
If you are one of our new international students then of course you do not want to transport your duvet and all your saucepans on the plane.
However, depending on what time you arrive on campus you may not be able to get to the supermarket to buy your essentials before shops close.
To help with this the university has set up the Essex Essentials shop.
You can use the shop to purchase items including bedding and laundry baskets before you arrive.
If you make your purchase before the deadline then our campus services teams will ensure your items are waiting for you at your accommodation when you arrive.
And of course, there’s a few things you should definitely leave at home:
Communications and External Relations, University of Essex

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2025/02/27/a-parents-journey-letting-go-as-your-young-person-heads-to-university:
Melanie Symonds’ daughter, Maddie is a current Essex student, studying BA International Relations in the Department of Government.
We spoke to Melanie about her experience as a parent experiencing their young person moving out for the first time and embarking upon life at university.
Did you have any fears about your young person settling into university?
“Yes of course!
As a parent, so many things were rushing through my mind.
I was worrying about how Maddie would cope living alone, after living in a house filled with people her whole life, I was anxious about how she would deal with independence and responsibilities, and most of all, her homesickness.
However, these worries soon went away.
After I saw how involved she was getting with the university, attending events such as freshers fair and freshers week, I saw her stepping out of her comfort zone and ma king so many new friends, and this made me so happy”
What advice would you give to other parents watching their children leave to go to university?
“My advice would be to trust the process and have faith in your sons and daughters.
Trust that they will make the right decisions; this is a big part of them discovering themselves and navigating their way through life.
It’s normal to be worried and anxious, what helped us was scheduling a Facetime for every Sunday, where we could talk about our weeks and catch up.
I made sure not to overload Maddie with messages and questions, and this helped build trust between us both, which massively lowered my worries”
What was one of the best things that came from Maddie going to university?
“When Maddie came home for the first time after a few months at university, I was delighted to see how much she had matured and blossomed into a young woman.
Things that would have phased her before, such as multiple deadlines and essays, now she was calm, collected and organised .
It was also amazing to see how many friends she had made and all of the societies she was part of, knowing she had a new support network really made me happy”
As a parent, what did you do to help settle your nerves when your daughter first went to university?
“After we dropped her off at her new accommodation, the drive home was very difficult, and the following week was also really hard.
To settle my nerves I made it very clear to Maddie that she could contact me whenever she wanted, no matter the time.
Knowing she understood this made me feel a lot better.
It also helped me to talk to other parents whose children were also in university, some family and friends were in the same position as me and talking to them gave me so much reassurance”
Do you have any other things you would like to tell parents who find themselves in this position?
“I’ll be honest, it’s never easy watching one of your children leave home, but to all of the parents out there, although that feeling never fully goes away, it gets much easier and slowly fades over time!
Now, whenever she goes back to university it’s not a sad goodbye, more of a ‘continue to have a great time’ goodbye.
Also, now when Maddie comes from university for Christmas, Easter and summer, we are all a lot more appreciative and value our time together more.”
Melanie (L) and Maddie (R) Symonds
Parent of student, University of Essex
Melanie's daughter Maddie is a University of Essex student.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/before-you-arrive/top-tips:
We want to make sure you settle into life at the University of Essex as smoothly as possible, so we’ve put together some top tips to help you along the way.
Once you are registered, you'll get access to the Welcome Portal through our online learning platform - Moodle.
This will help you discover what life is like at Essex and give you all the information you need to get started.
We'll email this to you as part of our confirmation of registration.
Starting university can be a wonderful and exciting experience, but it can also bring its own unique challenges.
It’s natural to feel nervous or overwhelmed during the first few weeks and it can be a while before you feel like you’ve found your feet.
Take a look at the Student Minds ‘Know Before You Go' University of Essex guide (.pdf) for information and tips.
Still want more?
Why not read what our students have said about preparing for life at Essex and what to expect when you are here.
Our Student Directory is a hub of information about University services and facilities for your day-to-day needs, your course and studies, and support and guidance across a range of topics.
Where to start?
Here's a list of a few helpful webpages you might need in your first few weeks when finding your feet.
Take a look at how to get to our Colchester , Southend and Loughton Campuses.
We can't wait to see you soon!
If you're living in campus accommodation, take a look at what's included in your accommodation and what you'll need to bring so you pack the right things...
If you're coming to our Colchester or Southend Campuses, and packing really isn't your thing or you don't have much space in your suitcase, then you can order stuff before you arrive and it will be delivered to your room.
Alternatively, there are large supermarkets near all of our campuses, so you can stock up on household essentials when you get here.
If you plan to do this, then it is worth checking beforehand to see which shops and supermarkets will be open nearby when you arrive, particularly as most will have reduced opening hours on Sundays.
During your first few weeks at Essex try and introduce yourself to as many people as possible, this could be during our Welcome Week events or through some of the ideas below.
We've got loads of social media groups for you to find your new BFFs.
We've got just about every possibility covered from country groups and accommodation specific ones.
Just search Facebook Groups for ‘University of Essex’ to get started.
At Essex, we have over 165 sports clubs and societies with over 3000 members.
SU clubs and societies are a great way to get support and experience in your subject from fellow students, or if you just want to see some friendly faces from your home country.
From the departmentally-focused and culturally-based to the downright weird and wonderful (Harry Potter Society, anyone?), there's an SU society for everyone.
We're proud of our vibrant and diverse multicultural community and we understand the importance that faith, belief and spirituality play in the lives of many people.
Our Faith Centre is open to anyone , of any religion or none.
It's a welcoming place to meet, chat and make friends.
From finding your way around our bustling campuses to checking when that library loan is due, our official mobile apps will quickly become your new best friend.
Check out the University's Welcome events calendar to find out about more about life at Essex, support available, and information about the University.
The SU events calendar has loads of fun activities to welcome you to University life in your first week and beyond.
If you’re eligible to vote in UK local and general elections, you’ll need to make sure you’re on the electoral register once you’ve settled into your accommodation, using your new address.
Don’t miss your chance to have your say – join the UK electoral register online .
Many undergraduate students at Essex are the first in their family to study at university.
If that's you too - you're bound to have some questions about what it's like.
Have a good look around our student webpages to find out more about support for settling in , plus help to ensure your wellbeing , support for students with disabilities, help with money matters , and planning for your future career .
Why not join the 6,000 students who have already taken part in the Big Essex Award , the University’s employability and skills award?
There are over 100 different activities both on and off-campus to complete.
Everything will be formally recognised by the University of Essex and included on your Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR); your secure digital transcript of all your academic and extracurricular achievements.
Most new undergraduate students have questions about starting at university.
Our Student Services Hub is the place to go for the information you need.
Your question matters and you'll get answers from experts.
You could also speak to one of our peer mentors.
A peer mentor is another student (normally from your department) with experience of the University who can offer practical advice and information, and point you in the right direction to services that may be available to you.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/modules/module-enrolment:
Module enrolment opens 16 June at 9.00am.
Most courses allow you to select optional modules during each year of study.
The process is called Module Enrolment and you use the online system called eNROL to review and select the optional modules available on the course.
eNROL is personalised to display the modules available to you on your year of study and course.
You should select optional modules as soon as possible so that you:
If you're a returning student you should complete Module Enrolment by end of July prior to the start of the next academic year.
Early selection of modules is critical to
enable the University to identify and reduce timetable clashes over the summer.
Module selections can be changed up until the eNROL system closes.
While you are able to select your modules for your next academic year of study, this is still dependent upon successful completion of your current year of study following the Board of Examiners meeting.
If you are unable to progress to your next year of study, you may not be able to undertake the modules selected, but may need to undertake relevant modules/reassessment as per the outcomes offered by the Board of Examiners.
If you're a new student you'll be able to access the eNROL system once your place has been confirmed.
This usually takes about a week.
You will need your Essex IT account details before you are able to log in to eNROL.
Typically, new students will have access to eNROL over the summer months and in the run up to your arrival date.
You will receive further instructions by email on how to access your IT account and log in to eNROL before you start your course.
If you studied with one of our partner institutions or the University of Essex International College during the most recent Academic Year, you will need to wait until the 30th of September before accessing the eNROL system.
You should choose all your optional modules before the start of the academic year.
If you have queries about what modules to choose, or any general queries about your modules or programme of study, contact or visit your departmental office .
If you have any queries about using eNROL or about any technical issue, please email enrol@essex.ac.uk .
Please provide your course title in full, your department and what year you are in.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/access-and-disability:
Getting support if you have a disability including Specific Learning Difference, autism, physical or sensory disabilities, long-term health conditions or mental health condition.
The Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service (SWIS) have a team of experienced specialists to support you in reaching
your academic potential.
If you have any of the conditions below, you can register with our service by emailing include@essex.ac.uk .
To register you'll need to provide supporting evidence.
You'll also need to give your consent to us sharing some information with the relevant
departments.
You can do this by completing our confidentiality agreement (.pdf) and sending it to us.
If you are a new student with complex needs, it is never too early to contact us for advice and information so that we can
prepare for your arrival.
Find out what academic and learning support you can access during your studies.
As an apprenticeship provider we are committed to supporting you in achieving the best results and enabling you to progress in your career.
Your Departmental Disability Liaison Officer can help make sure that the Disability Service know about any adjustments you need.
If you have a disability there is support available to help with taking exams or completing coursework.
Guidance on support and getting help if you are waiting for assessment.
Advice and support for students with Specific Learning Differences (SpLD) such as dyslexia and dyspraxia.
Find out about support if you have a physical, mobility, visual or hearing impairment.
Guidance on personal care and individual adaptations to accommodation.
You may be eligible to apply to your funding body for a Disabled Students' Allowances (DSA) grant.
If you have individual accommodation requirements you can discuss your needs with our team in more detail.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/student-communities/under-18:
We want students that are under 18 to feel included and welcome at the University.
We understand that you will also want to get involved in campus life and so we have a range
of activities open to you.
All questions you might have about university life will be answered by the Student Information Team in
your Student Services Hub .
From accommodation to funding, exam stress to student
support and wellbeing - any advice you might need, our expert teams are here to help.
Whilst we do expect you to take care of yourself and to live independently, the University does have an additional duty of
care to you and we want to ensure that you have all of the information you need to make your experience with us a happy and successful one.
Please note that it is the University's policy not to admit students that are under 16.
We’ll want to know who your UK based trusted contact is.
We’ll only contact this person if we really have to – such as if we’ve tried to contact you and you’ve not responded, if we have serious concerns about your health or welfare, or if you’ve been unable to register and you need help getting back home.
But we’ll never discuss details of your progress with your trusted contact unless you have given us permission to do so.
If you're an applicant and need to let us know about your trusted contact details please email ugsupport@essex.ac.uk .
If you're a current student and need to update your trusted contact details please email askthehub@essex.ac.uk .
You will be allocated a personal tutor when you start at University.
Your personal tutor will
be a member of staff from your department and is someone you can talk to if you have questions about your course or encounter any difficulties which
affect your studies.
If you aren’t sure who your personal tutor is, please ask your department.
You probably have questions about University life.
You can go straight to the source!
All undergraduate students automatically have a peer mentor , a fellow student from your department who can answer
your questions about university and share their experience.
We will try to make your transition to University life as smooth as possible.
We require you to live in University accommodation so
please make sure you apply by the deadline .
You can choose from a range of accommodation
options, including a single-gender flat if required.
At the University of Essex, we are committed to ensuring that all our students feel supported and have access to the right guidance during their time with us.
If you are under 18, you will be automatically allocated a Wellbeing and Accessibility Caseworker to provide you with tailored support and advice whenever you need it.
Starting university is a big transition, and we recognise that younger students may face unique challenges.
Allocating a Wellbeing and Accessibility Caseworker ensures that:
This service is designed to offer friendly and proactive support, ensuring you have everything you need to thrive at university.
If you have any questions, please contact include@essex.ac.uk
You have a lot of exciting opportunities to try something new and meet other students.
Our University and the Students’ Union have a wide range of social activities from Day 1.
Whether you’re into sports, films, music or a little bit of everything, we’ve got you covered.
One of the first things you get to do when you come here is to collect your heirloom (which you can learn more about here).
It’s a customisable charm that shows you’re a part of the SU Family.
You’ll get to sit down with a student advisor in the Heirloom House and they’ll chat to you about what you’re interested and suggest what clubs, societies and events you might like.
This will be one of your first steps towards easily meeting other students who are interested in the same things as you.
You can join a society or club at any time.
If you’re not sure what societies you want to join, they have taster events and come-and-try sessions where you can get a sneak peek of what the society is all about, before committing.
At Essex we run a rota of ‘Just Play’ sports throughout the year.
These are only £2 unless otherwise specified and you can attend ‘drop-in’ sessions, so even if you can’t commit to a team or weekly training sessions, you won’t miss out on the wide range of activities and sports available to everyone.
There’s also Blades sporting events where you’re welcome to watch and cheer on your team.
Cine10 is your own on-campus cinema that holds screenings of the latest blockbusters and the classics we love, without the High Street price tag.
Under 18s can use all bars on campus until 8pm.
We screen big sports games in the SU Bar and also have live music most Tuesdays in term-time 1pm – 2pm.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/arrivals/arriving-at-loughton:
Once you’ve completed your Essex IT account setup you need to complete Online Pre-Registration .
These are all essential in enabling us to get your Student Record setup, so we recommend you complete these as soon as possible after Online Pre-Registration opens.
Take a look at our information for new East 15 students to find out about everything else you need to know about getting started with us.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/international-students/arriving-from-overseas:
Joining our global Essex family?
Before you arrange to travel, please check the UK Government website for the latest information on entering the UK .
Your move-in date will be allocated in your accommodation offer letter.
Don't worry - we're here to help.
The immigration and travel information below will help in ensuring your transition to the UK, and to your campus, goes smoothly.
Before you travel, make sure you are prepared for your arrival and know what to expect.
You must have valid UK immigration permission in place and carry all required documents in your hand luggage.
The Home Office recommend that travel is only booked once you have been granted your visa.
CAS is an electronic document required to make a student visa application if you are applying from outside the UK and require sponsorship.
In order to be eligible for a CAS you must have:
CAS issue is not an automatic process.
We will aim to send you a CAS questionnaire to complete within 7 days from your offer becoming unconditional, or receiving a deposit payment (if this is required).
We will also request any other documents/information required.
Once this is received, we will review your responses to ensure that you meet Student Visa requirements.
We will get in touch if we have further questions and will only proceed to issue CAS once we are confident that your visa application will be successful.
If you have not heard from us after 4 weeks of submitting your CAS questionnaire, or after providing requested information, and you require an urgent response please email adintadv@essex.ac.uk
Find out more about Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Depending on method of payment it may take a few days for your payment to reach our account.
You can help us by making it as clear as possible where the payment is to be assigned.
If you receive a CAS questionnaire from us you can assume that your deposit payment has been received as we require payment of the deposit in order to send this.
If you do not receive receipt of payment or a CAS questionnaire within 7 days please send us proof of payment as we will ask our Income team to confirm the payment has been received.
If you are asked to pay a deposit to secure your place and scholarship, you should do so by the relevant deadline.
Further information on how to pay a deposit can be found on our tuition fee deposits webpage .
Please note that the East 15 Acting School course deposit terms and conditions are different.
You’ll need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) from the University in order to apply for a student visa if you require sponsorship to study.
The Admissions teams are issuing CAS as usual to applicants that they are confident meet all of the requirements, and they might ask you some additional questions as part of the process.
Once you have your CAS it is valid for 6 months, giving you plenty of time to make your student visa application, but you should let Admissions know if you do not think you will be arriving by the latest accept date on your CAS.
The type of visa you should apply for will depend on your circumstances including, what passport or travel document you hold, the length of your proposed study and where you are applying from.
The Admissions teams complete rigorous checks to ensure that CAS is only issued if we believe that your visa application will be successful.
Our visa refusal rate is extremely low.
However, in the rare instance that a visa is refused you should contact us to determine if other options such as online only teaching are possible.
European and Swiss students who travel to the UK on or after 1 January 2021 will need to apply for immigration permission to study, unless you already hold settled status.
Irish students will continue to have the right to live and study in the UK after the UK leaves the EU.
Read our immigration pages for further information about applying for your visa.
From 4 August 2022, students and any dependants who are 16 and over, from certain countries or territories, who are studying in the UK for more than six months are not required to register with the police.
Visit the government website to find out more about the change of requirement in relation to police registration .
As a new student, we are required to check your identity and that you have the right to study with us inside the UK.
Read our Registration page to find out what identity documents you will need to bring with you.
When you arrive in the UK, you’ll be able to arrange collection of your BRP (Biometric Residence Permit) from the place you’ve chosen, you must collect your BRP by the ‘valid to’ date on the entry clearance sticker or, within 10 days of your arrival in the UK, whichever is the latest date.
Find out more about collecting your BRP from the University .
During welcome week, at the start of the new academic year, we offer airport transfers from Heathrow and Gatwick Airports to our Colchester and Southend campuses.
For anyone arriving or visiting at other times, you will find all the information you need to find your way to our University of Essex campuses below.
You can find more information and view maps on the Transport for London website
You can view train times and book tickets via Trainline.com
Our Colchester Campus is not far from Stansted Airport.
The quickest way to travel is by National Express using the 250 service which runs directly from Stansted Airport to the centre of Colchester, from where you can catch a bus or taxi to the university campus.
Alternatively, The First Essex Bus Airlink service X20 runs From Colchester to Stansted Airport.
This is an hourly service, operating Monday to Sunday.
A single trip costs £3.
University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester Essex CO4 3SQ
MAP If you need assistance while on campus, or as you travel to the university, please contact the Security team :   01206 872125 (24 hrs a day)
If you have an emergency while you are travelling or outside the university please call the public emergency phone number 999 and ask for the Police, Ambulance or Fire Service.
You do not need credit on your phone in order to make this phone call.
We wish you a smooth journey!
Our Southend Campus is just 1.7 miles (2.8km) from London Southend Airport.
You can travel from the airport by bus or train
You can take an overground train all the way from Stansted Airport to Southend Victoria, changing trains at two stations on the way:
University of Essex Elmer Approach Southend-on-Sea, SS1 1LW United Kingdom
If you need assistance while on campus (or as you travel to the university) please contact University Square reception on 01702 328408 or 07920821678
If you have an emergency while you are travelling or outside the University please call the public emergency phone number 999 and ask for the Police, Ambulance or Fire Service.
Our Loughton (East 15 Acting School) campus is located within easy reach of London transport links through nearby Debden underground station, which is served by the Central line.
East 15 Acting School Hatfields, Rectory Lane Loughton, IG10 3RY United Kingdom
If you need assistance while on campus (or as you travel to the university) please contact Security on 01702 328208

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/students/study-resources/tutor.aspx:
Your personal tutor is there to help you feel connected to your department, school or centre and is someone you can talk to if you have questions about 
your course or encounter any difficulties which affect your studies.
Find out how your personal tutor can support you.
Find how you can contact and meet your personal tutor.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/students/study-resources/mentoring/default.aspx:
As part of your experience at Essex, we encourage you to be bold, question and acknowledge that there are some things you don’t know.
We also want you to benefit from the wisdom and experience of those students or alumni who have been down a similar path.
Once you've arrived at Essex, you can have a peer mentor – a fellow undergraduate student who can help you to settle into life here.
A Peer Mentor Coordinator is a staff member responsible for overseeing peer mentoring arrangements within your department, school or centre.
Find out about the role of being a peer mentor.
Discuss living and studying as a postgraduate at Essex with current, more experienced, postgraduate students.
The role of a mentor is ideal if you're looking to volunteer and get great experience to add to your CV.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/mentoring/ug-peer-mentoring:
Most new undergraduate students have questions about starting at university - and this is where peer mentoring can really help.
We understand that you might have lots of questions that you’d prefer to ask an experienced student rather
than a staff member.
That’s what a peer mentor can provide.
Most departments run their own peer mentoring scheme and so how they operate varies slightly between departments.
For example, some schemes
operate in pairs or groups.
A peer mentor is another student (normally from your department) with experience of the University who can:
You might be feeling confused about where to find things on campus, how to use the library, who's who in your department, or how to get to know other
students.
Or, you might just feel like having a chat with someone who's had experience of adjusting to university life and who can give you tips about
how to settle in.
This is where your peer mentor can help you!
All new undergraduate students are offered the opportunity to have a student peer mentor.
You may either be automatically assigned a peer mentor or
you can sign up for a peer mentor from your department or school.
If you’re not sure who your peer mentor is or if you’d like to request a peer mentor, please
contact your Departmental Peer Mentor Coordinator .
If you're in a department that runs a peer mentor scheme, then you will normally meet your peer
mentor in the first few weeks of term.
Please contact your
Departmental Peer Mentor Coordinator.
The Students’ Union co-ordinates a buddy scheme for specific groups of students including mature
students and LGBT students.
To join a peer mentor or buddy scheme contact your
Departmental Peer Mentor Coordinator.
East 15 Acting School only operates a buddy scheme.
It's important you understand that the mentoring relationship will remain confidential.
A peer mentor is in a
position of trust and is expected to treat student concerns and private matters with the utmost sensitivity.
However, they're not expected to keep secrets.
To handle information confidentially means that information isn't
shared beyond the scheme, and it will normally only be shared with your scheme co-ordinator or your Student Services Hub .
Details of the confidentiality to be offered within your scheme are available from your Peer Mentor Co-ordinator.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/students/course-admin/withdrawing.aspx:
You may experience doubts at some point during your studies.
If you're thinking about leaving Essex, we're here to support you and give you the advice you need to help you make an informed choice.
If you're thinking about leaving Essex, here are some practical things you need to consider.
Information and guidance to help you decide if withdrawing from the University is right for you
For former undergraduate and postgraduate taught students requesting permission to return to study at the University.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/students/experience/safety.aspx:
Our campuses are generally very safe environments.
We want to ensure that things stay this way.
The University works closely with local agencies including the police and borough councils to achieve this.
It's important you familiarise yourself with our emergency information in case you ever discover a fire or need first aid help, or need to contact our security staff in an emergency.
There is 24-hour security at our Colchester Campus .
Our helpful and friendly security team are based in the Security and Safety Centre on Square 3, or you can call them on 01206 872125.
Please also familiarise yourself with the safety advice below.
For those walking to and from campus, we would encourage you to join our ‘Walking Together’ email subscription where you can make contact with other University members walking on your route.
Membership of the subscription list is instant just follow these steps:
Free personal alarms are available for students and staff to collect from the Security and Safety Centre on Square 3.
Essex Police have produced personal safety information providing useful tips so that you can avoid becoming a victim of crime.
Students living off campus can be targeted by burglars who are aware that students are likely to have valuable electronic equipment such as laptops, mobile phones etc.
Please take care to keep your home secure and your belongings safe.
We recommend you take out insurance.
Although this is not a particular problem in the local area beware of drinks being interfered with or spiked.
Young people can be particularly vulnerable to these types of incident which can lead to such things as robbery and rape.
We ask you to be considerate and think of how your behaviour might affect other students or residents.
The University will not tolerate anti-social behaviour on campus or in the local community.
We urge you to report any incident of attack or assault to the police by dialling 101.
If you are off campus and in need of immediate emergency assistance dial 999.
If you are on campus then you can contact security for assistance or to report an incident or attack.
Alternatively, you can also report incidents to:
Please report incidents to your local police station or to your Student Services Hub .
You are urged to take extra care during the winter months when it is often dark and can be icy.
Be aware that drivers may not be able to see you if you are wearing dark clothing and make sure that you have plenty of time for crossing roads.
It is recommended that you do not listen to music so that you can hear and see the traffic.
International students need to be particularly aware as many of you will come from countries where traffic travels on the right.
Students based at the Colchester Campus are reminded of the danger of crossing the A133 dual carriageway between campus and the Greenstead Estate (Clinghoe Hill).
The road has poor visibility for drivers, especially after dark and traffic is very fast.
There have been serious accidents on this road that have lead to fatalities.
Please take care and only cross at the pedestrian crossings at the roundabout.
The Highway Code is not just for drivers, it applies to cyclists too.
Key points of the code for cyclists are:
We recommend that you buy at least one sturdy lock for your bike as we frequently have reports of bikes being stolen.
This is much less likely to happen if you have locked your bike with one or more D-locks.
If your bike is stolen report it to your local police station as soon as possible.
If it is stolen from the Colchester Campus also report it to the Patrol Staff at the Security and Safety Centre, Square 3.
All drivers in the UK must abide by The Highway Code .
If you do not have a UK driving licence and want to know if you can drive in the UK, the DVLA has all the relevant information.
We also recommend you read the UKCISA guidance for international students on driving in the UK .
In the UK, it is the law that children must use a child car seat until they are 12 years old or 135cm tall.
There are several taxi companies in the local area , you can also call ‘Infoline’ which operates overnight, 01206 87(4062).
The companies and their drivers should be able to quote you a price before you travel although some cabs work with a meter and some don’t.
All taxis and minicabs operating legally are licensed – don’t get into an unmarked car , even if the driver says they are from a taxi service.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/student-communities:
Find out about the specialist support, networks and information we have available for our student communities.
Find out how our University supports and promotes representation of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic students.
If you have lived in care and you are looking to study at Essex, or you are already studying with us, there is support available for you.
Lots of students every year choose to commute to Essex.
Find out how to get the best out of your time at Essex.
You may be studying without the support or approval of a family network - at Essex we're committed to supporting you.
Starting university is a thrilling and transformative experience, but it can also feel complex or daunting at points, especially for first-generation students.
The Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service recognises that students coming from the GTRSB communities may need additional support during their time at the university.
Find how you can get involved with events and activities for international students.
Find out what support, advice and information are available for LGBTQ+ students.
Information, support and resources for mature students currently studying at Essex.
Find out what help, advice and support are available for postgraduate students.
Information if you're a student who is caring for a partner, family member or friend who is elderly or has a disability.
If you are studying with us and you have a family with you, there is a wide range of information, support and advice available.
No matter how old you are when you start your studies, we want you to feel welcome and included.
As a University of Sanctuary student, you can get extra help during your studies.
The Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service can offer you a designated member of staff who can support and guide you through your time at Essex.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/travel-and-transport/airport-transfer:
We will be organising coach transfers from Gatwick and Heathrow Airports on Saturday 27 September and Sunday 28 September 2025.
Departure times are to be confirmed.
There will be a non-stop service to Colchester Campus and a separate non-stop service to Southend Campus (no other locations will be served).
Tickets will be available from Eventbrite shortly and a link added to this page.
If your flight arrives at Stansted Airport there is a convenient public bus service from the terminal to Colchester train station where you can pick up a taxi to campus.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/international-students/banking:
Banking and the way that people use money  may differ from what you're used to and when you move to the UK you’re going to need a bank account, to pay your living costs and rent, tuition fees, or receive money from home.
You may find it useful to open a UK bank account as it can be easier to manage your finances plus it gives you have a safe place to keep your money, provides financial evidence for your visa application, and allows a business to pay you your salary if you decide to get a job whilst studying.
As well as banking you may also need to take out an insurance policy; insurance gives you financial protection in case of  accidents or unforeseen problems when travelling.
We’ve put together some information to help you understand your options when it comes to your finances and insurance cover.
Banks in the UK are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and must operate in accordance with their requirements and those of the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group .
They also have their own policies and procedures to follow and will carry out relevant checks to decide what account you may be eligible to open.
The FCA have some useful information for consumers about opening a bank account in the UK.
UKCISA (UK Council for International Student Affairs) also produce helpful information for students about opening a bank account including a student blog addressing some common queries.
Some banks and app-based accounts may allow you to open a bank account before you arrive in the UK, whilst other banks will let you start the application online, but you will then need to complete the process in-person when you are in Essex.
It’s a good idea to check the website of each bank for information before you start applying.
Monito have an article detailing the differences and benefits of both traditional and non-traditional (online) bank accounts which we would encourage you to read.
Please be aware that some of these may not be available if you live outside the EU or EEA.
You will find some useful tips on opening a UK bank account for international students in this Save the Student article.
Some global banks offer international bank accounts including HSBC and Bank of China.
Please note that other banks are available, and the University of Essex does not recommend any particular bank account.
*Please note, if you were issued with entry clearance overseas and have a Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) to collect when you arrive, you’ll need to do so before you can open a bank account.
If you chose the University of Essex, Colchester Campus as your collection location our International Services team will email you to let you know when they have it and how you can collect it.
Read our immigration pages for more information.
You may not be able to open a UK bank account if your visa is valid for less than 6 months, unless you are going onto further study in the UK.
Most banks will also require a letter of introduction from our University (certificate of registration), which must be in exactly the same name as your passport and visa (if applicable).
Once you are registered , your certificate of registration will be available electronically for you to access at any time and share with third parties.
This document can be used to confirm that you are registered student, to register for council tax exemption or reduction, to open a bank account or to confirm your current status as a student.
In order to view your document, you will need to access your Gradintelligence account .
See information here on how to access your certificate of registration and accessing your Gradintelligence account.
If you are not able to open an account with your first choice of bank, we recommend you try elsewhere.
Unfortunately, our University does not have any influence over a bank’s decision.
Read the Financial Conduct Authority website for information about your rights including how to make a complaint.
If you’ve been refused due to your immigration status read the government guidance and leaflet .
If you believe that you have a valid visa/immigration status and you are a registered University of Essex student contact our International Service team for advice.
You should bring an easily accessible source of money for your day-to-day living expenses whilst your account is being opened.
A sum of £400 should be enough for the first couple of weeks.
Please do not bring sizeable amounts of cash as you won’t have anywhere to safely secure it until you can open a bank account.
Please note that some banks will not accept €500 notes.
If you bring a large amount of cash into the UK you may need to declare it at the border, see the UK Government website for more information.
If you plan on using your current debit or credit card once you arrive in the UK it is important to to notify your bank before your travel that that you will be using your card to make payments abroad.
This reduces the likelihood of your bank card being blocked which could delay your registration process.
If you are paying your own tuition fees, you should also ensure that you have sufficient funds to pay your first term's fees.
Please note that you will not be able to pay your tuition or accommodation fees by cash.
In addition, contactless payment methods are accepted across the whole campus and contactless is our preferred payment method.
All the major UK banks have branches located in the town centre of all our campuses.
There are two major types of credit cards widely accepted in the UK, Visa and Mastercard.
You may wish to check with your home bank if your current credit card can be used in the UK.
There are many different insurance providers in the UK who offer various types of policies.
Before taking out insurance make sure the company is regulated by checking the Financial Services Register.
Check the policy wording and make sure it offers you the cover you require.
We strongly recommend you arrange travel insurance before you leave your home country to cover you throughout your studies in the UK.
Make sure your insurance covers repatriation of you and any dependants to your home country, should it become necessary, this will not be covered by the UK’s National Health Service in any circumstances and is expensive.
Lots of students choose to visit other countries during University vacations or as part of their studies, make sure your travel insurance covers you for worldwide travel and for the things you want to do whilst you are there.
It is important that you take out insurance against the loss or theft of personal belongings including any cash funds.
If you will be living in University accommodation standard contents cover has been arranged for you with Endsleigh Insurance that will cover your belongings whilst they are in your room.
We recommend you check the policy details including what’s covered, you will be able to increase the cover if you would like to.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/international-students/feel-at-home:
Life in a new social and cultural environment is exciting but understandably there may be some home comforts you miss once you arrive at the University of Essex.
We want you to feel that Essex is your home away from home so to help you adjust, we have compiled a list of international shops and campus services you can access as well as useful tips to help you settle into your new home and make the most of your international experience.
Your current international phone is very likely to function perfectly in the UK, but you will need a UK sim card to avoid high charges.
You might feel that you do not need a UK phone number but keep in mind that you will need one when applying for jobs or internships (both on and off-campus), if you need to get a delivery from one of the local supermarkets and most importantly to keep in touch with your new friends at Essex.
The best thing to do is research the different mobile phone companies and the deals they offer.
At Essex, we are proud of our vibrant and diverse multicultural community and we recognise the importance that faith, belief and spirituality play in the lives of many people.
We run a mix of specifically religious events throughout the year and also provide spaces for worship, prayer, meditation and quiet reflection.
There are also SU faith societies ready to welcome you into a ready-made community.
Find out more about our religion, faith and worship facilities .
Located on Level 3 of the campus the Colchester Campus Faith Centre offers a calm, friendly and supportive atmosphere and a welcoming place for staff, students and the wider community to meet, interact and engage in a positive and peaceful manner.
Located in The Gateway Building the prayer room and Faith Centre at our Southend Campus is a welcoming place for staff and students to meet, interact and engage in a positive and peaceful manner.
There is a wide range of food on campus including halal, vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free foods.
There are also stalls on campus offering Afro-Caribbean and Asian food, you can check them out during the SU Thursday market on square 3 (during term time).
You can find a great range of international food in The Store (on square 4) and if you can’t find what you are looking for, you can request it through the in-store product request wall.
There are also many international food stores in and around Colchester.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/welcome/international-students/support-services:
Moving to a new country to study abroad can bring up all kinds of concerns and questions .
At Essex, we offer a range of services that provide all our students with the advice, support and information they need, no matter what the issue, from accommodation to graduation.
To help you prepare for your new life at Essex and in the UK we've highlighted our key services below so that you can get any questions you have answered.
Whilst studying at Essex you will have access to all University provided health and wellbeing services as well as a variety of NHS facilities and treatments (once registered with a doctor).
If you have prescription medicine, please check with your doctor before you travel to ensure you can access your medicine while you are abroad.
You may have to bring a prescription with you in order to access your medicine while in the UK.
Familiarise yourself with the UK Government’s guidance for travelling with medicine containing a controlled drug , and please ensure you carry a prescription in your name for any prescription medicine you travel with.
The British Council have an online course on Managing your well being while studying in the UK.
The course is designed to help you manage stress, adjust to UK culture and settle into your student life abroad.
Before departing for the UK we advise that you speak with your healthcare provider or doctor to discuss your medication needs and any potential alternatives available in the UK.
Different countries have different regulations and availability of medications, so it's important that you check that you can access the right medication whilst at university.
Your doctor can provide guidance on how to manage your medication during your move to the UK and help you explore options for accessing your prescriptions once you are here.
Our healthcare pages provide further information on collecting and paying for prescriptions once you arrive in the UK.
Once you have arrived at the University of Essex, it is essential that you register with a GP as soon as possible, further information on how to register with a local doctor in the UK can be found below.
After your arrival in the UK, you will need to register with a local doctor , also known as a GP (General Practitioner), who will provide you with your NHS number.
There are some services and treatments that are carried out at an NHS hospital that are exempt from charges and are free to everyone, including temporary visitors to the UK .
Read our healthcare web pages for more information about entitlement to free NHS care , this will depend on your arrival date and UK immigration status.
If you are not entitled to free treatment by the NHS, then you must take out your health insurance before you leave home.
We understand it can feel daunting to speak with someone about support for your mental health but whatever concerns you might have, we have professionals who provide support on issues concerning mental and emotional health, including assessment and referral for counselling or mentoring.
Find out more about our mental and emotional health services .
Our Colchester Campus has its own health centre offering appointments for a range of NHS services.
If you are living off-campus, this may not be your closest local doctor (known as a General Practitioner, or “GP”).
Find your nearest GP using the NHS website .
Find out more about our healthcare services .
All students should have their MMR jabs and be vaccinated against meningitis.
If you're not sure if you're vaccinated, check with your doctor now.
Getting to grips with English as a second language has never been easier because we offer a wide range of services and opportunities for you to work on your language, writing, grammar and speaking skills.
If your first language isn’t English, our Skills for Success team will invite you to register for Academic English Support classes.
You will receive an email with the details of modules available in the Autumn term and the link to the AES Registration survey where you can identify which modules you would like to be enrolled on to.
The Academic English Support classes aim to help you achieve higher marks through improving your English language skills.
Further information can be found on the Skills for Success webpages .
Surrounding yourself with native English speakers is a great way to improve your speaking skills and boost your confidence.
What better way to do this than by joining one of our Students' Union's 165 sports clubs and societies .
As every Essex student is automatically a member of the University of Essex Students’ Union you can join any of the societies on campus.
Our societies host regular events that promote language learning experiences.
You can also ask for 121 sessions with society exec members or group activities.
Our favourite tip for learning the conversational side of a language – watch movies!
Watching movies in English (a.k.a.
binge-watching Netflix) can be super helpful, it forces you to learn English and gain skills whilst doing something you actually enjoy.
If the big screen is more your thing then watch the latest blockbusters or timeless classics at our on-campus cinema, Cine10 .
Our campuses are generally very safe environments, we work closely with local agencies including the police and borough councils to achieve this.
Our student webpages contain helpful information on personal safety and emergency contact details , we encourage all students to read these before starting at Essex.
Our friendly Security team can be found in the Security and Safety Centre at our Colchester Campus where they provide 24-hour, face-to-face and phone support.
The team can help with a variety of issues including reporting emergencies as well as non-emergencies such as first aid and lost property.
In an emergency you should telephone the UK emergency services (Ambulance, Fire Service and Police) by dialling 999.
The emergency operator will ask for your name, address and the type of emergency.
Only use the 999 number to call the emergency services when, for example, a life is at risk, a crime is in progress or to report a fire.
The British Council has created a downloadable guide titled Creating Confidence (.pdf) to help international students prepare for their time in the UK.
The Careers team provides support and advice to help you develop your skills, find opportunities and gain experiences throughout your time at university and beyond.
If you have Student immigration permission, before seeking work you must check what you are allowed to do so that you do not breach your immigration conditions.
Further information on working or volunteering in the UK during your studies and student work conditions can be found on our Student Directory .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2023/04/20/moving-to-the-uk-to-study:
In this episode, our three Essex students, Ashley (International Relations and Language Studies), Ellie (Journalism and Politics), and Tao (Government) interview a student for their thoughts on feedback.
They invited fellow student Rita, who studies journalism, to share her opinions on the academic feedback she got from her department and her learning at the University of Essex.
This student-led podcast series has been supported by the University of Essex's Education Strategic Fund 2022-23 and is led by Dr Antonio Da Silva from the Department of Language and Linguistics.
Three University of Essex students are helping fellow students understand the importance of academic feedback.
Ashley (International Relations and Language Studies), Ellie (Journalism and Politics) and Tao (Government) will highlight different aspects of academic feedback.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/student/faith:
Our University is proud of its vibrant and diverse multicultural community and recognises the importance that faith, belief and spirituality play in the lives of many people.
You don’t have to be religious to find a warm welcome with us.
We run a mix of specifically religious events, and also provide space to help recharge your spiritual batteries.
You can find our events listed on the events calendar .
We have full- or part-time chaplains and advisors for many religions, and we can put you in touch with others.
We’re happy to meet one-to-one in person or online.
Find out how you can get support from the Faith Centre
Our Faith Centre offers pastoral care, a confidential listening ear and spiritual support to anyone in our University community,
We have a number of Chaplains and faith representatives who offer their time to the Faith Centre.
The Faith Centre at our Colchester Campus offers spaces for worship, prayer and quiet reflection.
We have a large range of student faith and cultural societies at the University.
All major faiths are represented in the local area and are within easy reach of the campus.
The Faith Centre at our Southend Campus is a welcoming place for staff and students to meet, interact and engage in a positive and peaceful manner.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/topics:
At Essex, our research spans a wide range of areas, topics and expertise.
Our interdisciplinary approach means that we tackle some of the world's biggest problems from different angles and from different perspectives.
From understanding societies and the global inequalities that shape them to ensuring the world can bounce back from a global crisis; our researchers are at the heart of change, influencing policy changes and shining a light upon a healthy forward-thinking future.
Below, you can follow some of the topics our researchers from across the University are studying.
Get to know our Research Groups and Centres and meet the academics at the heart of research projects looking to uncover more, or drive change.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/facilities:
Our excellent facilities and services support research excellence in social science, science and health, and the humanities.
We are proud to offer our facilities and services, plus quality venues and business consultancy, to organisations and businesses choosing to work with us.
Our School of Life Sciences has state-of-the-art facilities and equipment for conducting research in the life sciences and for training undergraduates and research students.
Over two-thirds of our research was rated as ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ (REF 2021) and our facilities are wide-ranging because we cover a wide range of sub-disciplines within the Life Sciences.
Our research groups also have a wide variety of facilities available to researchers.
Find our more about each of our groups or units below:
Our expertise is helping to drive business forward: we have an unequivocal commitment to creating jobs and growth in the East of England region.
Essex Business SchoolThe Knowledge Gateway is located adjacent to our Colchester Campus and strategically integrates the University of Essex to the city of Colchester and the region.
Explore our growing Knowledge Gateway
As well as offering MBAs and Executive programmes, Essex Business School offers a range of facilities for business.
Get to know the department in more detail to find out more.
Event Essex is our conferencing arm, offering modern and flexible conference and meeting spaces, comfortable accommodation and high quality catering at both our Colchester and Southend campuses.
Find out more
Our School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering is supported by excellent facilities.
We are served by a gigabit Ethernet LAN and we have our own gigabit backbone; standard network connectivity is 100Mbit/second.
Explore in more detail the research conducted by the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, including our research groups, centres and institutes.
It’s a purpose-built centre to house state-of-the-art equipment that allows staff to directly measure and modulate brain activity, as well as a range of equipment to measure eye movements and various indices of physiological response.
The centre also won a Sustainable Developments award in the 2008 Colchester 2020 and RIBA Architectural Awards, and is one of the most environmentally sustainable buildings at our Colchester Campus.
We also have a range of specialist labs and facilities such as our observation suit, visual perception lab, cognitive perception lab, two psychoacoustic hearing lab, and group testing suite.
Studying the development of perceptual and cognitive abilities in infants and children.
Explore more
Students, researchers, individuals and organisations, from across the globe conduct cutting edge research at ESSEXLab.
Our excellent facilities and expert laboratory staff are open and available to all, from the university community and beyond.
See how ESSEXLab can help you.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/essexlab:
To address global challenges, it is necessary to understand human behaviour, and for that you need a testing facility with capacity that is adaptive and agile.
Our Behavioural Science Lab is an essential testing facility providing state-of-the-art technology that transforms research and research-led education.
The Behavioural Science Lab is designed to give researchers the greatest degree of control over their study environment and measurement, so they can be confident of their results.
Our Behavioural Science Lab offers researchers, businesses and other external partners testing opportunities that are unmatched.
It has contributed to our reputation for excellence in research, helping researchers secure large grants from the British Academy, the Economic and Social Research Council, the Leverhulme Trust and Horizon 2020.
As well as Essex researchers, academics from around the world have benefitted from conducting their experiments in our Lab, including academics from the European University Institute, Gothenburg University and the University of California Davis.
Find out how to apply, check lab availability and read our guidelines to ensure you conduct an efficient and ethical study
Join our participant database, get rewarded for your time and take part in cutting-edge research
Learn more about the funding opportunities for postgraduate research students and academic staff

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/fellowships:
You might be a researcher already based at the University, or thinking about joining us.
Our research fellowships give you the opportunity to build and development your research career.
A fellowship is typically where funding is provided to you to support you with time spent researching and expenses required to carry your research out.
This is a investment in you and your career.
Essex specific and recruiting Fellowships can be found through our jobs pages .
However, we encourage speculative enquiries for fellowships from a range of different funding opportunities found below.
The first step to make an application is to review the different funding opportunities found below and assess whether applications can be made speculatively with us, or direct to the funder.
You should also review the research on our website and see whether we are a good fit for your area of expertise.
You can search by the keyword for your expertise to find the areas we specialise in.
Once you are happy, you should get in touch with the department in which you feel best suited.
They will be able to discuss next steps and options for you.
Essex International Visiting Fellowships are prestigious, competitive awards for high performing, established academics and researchers.
This flagship programme provides support for outstanding researchers to undertake a period of research at Essex that is of major importance in its field and of significant benefit to Essex's research.
The British Academy invite proposals from early career researchers in the humanities and social sciences for it's Postdoctoral Fellowship.
This is for researchers looking to start an independent project with the aim to publish a significant piece of research.
A range of different funding opportunities and fellowships are provided for researchers through Cancer Research UK.
Daphne Jackson Fellowships offer researchers who have taken a break from their career of two or more years to come back to a research career in a UK University or research establishment.
The European Research Council Grants and Fellowships are open to talented early-career scientists who have already produced excellent supervisory work, and are ready to work independently.
The Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships are intended to support those researchers just starting out in their academic career.
Support researchers’ careers and fostering excellence in research.
This Postdoctoral Fellowship targets researchers holding a PhD who wish to carry out their research activities abroad, acquiring new skills and developing their careers.
Find out more about Marie Skłodowska-Curie Postdoctoral Fellowships.
Medical Research Council's fellowships ensure individuals that show a talent in the scientific community are given the support to develop and build their career to strengthen UK research and respond to some of the biggest medical challenges the future may bring us.
Career Development Award
Senior Non-Clinical Fellowship
The NIHR provides a range of different fellowship opportunities designed to support individuals at various points of their career in becoming leading researchers, from initial pre-doctoral training to senior post-doctoral research.
Research Fellowships are offered each year by the Royal Academy of Engineering to those early-career researchers that show outstanding potential as future research leaders within their engineering field.
1851 Research Fellowships are intended to provide early career scientists or engineers who show exceptional promise in their field the chance to conduct a research project to help support a healthy and innovative national culture.
Royal Society University Research Fellowship
For outstanding scientists, in the early stages of their research career, who show the potential to become leaders and experts in their field.
Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship
This scheme provides the first step into an independent research career for postdoctoal scientists who are outstanding in their field but require a flexible working pattern owing to personal circumstances.
Royal Society Newton International Fellowships
For non-UK early-stage scientists wishing to conduct research in the UK.
Supporting early career researchers and innovators with outstanding potential in universities, UK registered businesses, and other research and user environments including research councils' institutes and laboratories.
This scheme intends to grow the strong supply of talented individuals needed to ensure that UK research and innovation continues to be world class.
These Fellowships support applicants from diverse career paths, including those returning from a career break or following time in other roles.
From time to time the UKRI offer a range of different fellowship funding opportunities for established and early career researchers.
Find out more about what is available and open to applications on the UKRI website.
Wellcome Early-Career Awards
Provides funding for early-career researchers from across all disciplines who looking to build and develop their research identity and seeking ways to improve human life, health and wellbeing.
Wellcome Career Development Awards
This scheme provides funding for researchers in the middle of their career across all disciplines and who have the potential  be recognised as international research leaders.
Wellcome Discovery Awards
A funding scheme for established researchers and teams across all disciplines looking to pursue bold and creative research ideas to deliver significant shifts in understanding to improve human life, health and wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/recognition:
The University of Essex is a centre of world-leading excellence in the social sciences with further research strengths across science, health, arts and the humanities according to the results of the Research Excellence Framework 2021 (REF2021).
At Essex, we are proud of our transformational research.
We are the centre of world-leading excellence for the social sciences with four social science subjects  in the UK top 10 for research quality (Grade Point Average, REF2021) and three  in the UK Top 10 for research power (Times Higher Education 2022).
We have further outstanding strengths in science and health, and arts and humanities.
With four Essex subjects in the UK top 10 for research quality -  sociology, economics and econometrics, politics and international studies, and modern languages and linguistics, And five Essex subjects in the UK top 10 for research power – sociology, law, economics and econometrics, politics and international studies, and computer science.
We have academics across the University, who are changing lives, changing behaviours and changing policies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/eastern-arc:
For more than 50 years they have been home to socially aware, radical and disruptive research and education, forged in communities built on equality, respect, and intellectual freedom.
The Eastern Arc universities have a shared history of radicalism and a willingness to engage with diverse cultures and outlooks.
With 50,000 students and £800m in income, the Eastern Arc universities are a significant force in UK higher education.
We can count six Nobel laureates among our former staff and students, and all three of our members are in the top ten universities that balance both world-leading research and inspiring teaching.
But our contribution goes beyond academia, and together we bring in almost £2.4bn of economic benefit to our region.
Find out more about our members .
Eastern Arc provides a platform for collaboration between the three universities.
This takes many forms.
For academic research, we’re structured around four areas of common strength.
To achieve this, Eastern Arc has three objectives :

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/gcrf:
The Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) was a £1.5 billion fund running from 2015 to 2021 with the overarching ambition to ensure the UK takes the lead in addressing the problems faced by developing countries whilst developing the UK’s cutting-edge research abilities.
The fund formed part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance (ODA), which promotes the long-term sustainable growth of developing countries.
Delivery partners including all UK research councils and other UK funding bodies developed a set of complementary research programmes with the aim to:
In 2018 the University of Essex successfully obtained three years of Global Challenge Research Funding from Research England to support our academic community to develop collaborations and capacity building  activities with research partners in ODA eligible countries.
From 2018-2021 an annual series of activities has provided funding for:
Explore our map to find our more details of funded collaborative research projects, collaborations, events and incoming visiting fellowships we have supported since 2018.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/research/global-academic-interdisciplinary-network:
Article 43 of the GCR provides that “a global academic network on refugee, other forced displacement, and statelessness issues will be established, involving universities, academic alliances, and research institutions, together with UNHCR and other relevant stakeholders”.
Regional working groups and global level events are also envisaged to take place highlighting the contributions from academic institutions in low-and middle-income contexts.
Anchored in a whole-of-society approach, GAIN seeks to ensure that academic contributions are shared in an accessible manner with policymakers and civil society actors; and to partner with forced displacement networks, alliances and consortiums on projects that advance implementation of the GCR.
The multi-faceted aspects of refugee protection and solutions necessitate contributions from experts in many different fields.
To advance burden and responsibility sharing, the GAIN Secretariat works with universities, academic alliances, research institutions and individual academics from a variety of disciplines.
The GAIN Secretariat is currently chaired by the University of Essex and supported by UNHCR:
GAIN Chair

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/blog/posts/2024/08/27/a-successful-first-year-for-the-open-access-fund:
Essex’s Open Access Fund has enjoyed an exciting first full year since launching in July 2023.
Success for the Open Access Team, part of Research Services of Essex’s Library and Cultural Services section, is helping Essex authors make their research as widely available as possible.
Through paying the processing charges many academic publishers levy for open access, the Open Access Fund removes the barrier of cost for readers all over the world.
Professor Chris Greer, Pro-Vice Chancellor Research and a supporter of open access and open research, reflected on a successful year for the Open Access Fund:
"We are committed to the view that research should be as open as possible, as closed as necessary.
We are now seeing the benefits of our institutional investment to realising that commitment."
"Publishing open access is fundamental to increasing the visibility of the fantastic work our researchers are producing.
With this new fund, we’re removing as many barriers as we can to ensure that research published by Essex authors reaches the widest possible audience."
We are delighted to have been able to support so many authors to publish their articles, chapters, monographs, or edited collections, and doubly delighted to be helping so many new open access projects to completion.
Since July 2023, the Open Access Fund has published:
Looking ahead to next year we are already committed to:
With the publication timelines for journal articles being much shorter, we don’t have information on these outputs as far in advance.
However, we can feel confident we’ll be supporting plenty more authors of open access articles next year too!
Dr Ana Minozzo from the Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies published Anxiety as Vibration: A Psychosocial Cartography (Palgrave, 2024) using the Open Access Fund in July 2024 and offered this wonderful feedback:
"The Open Access Team at Essex has been phenomenal in supporting our academic community to catch up with this more accessible way of divulging our work.
[…] Just knowing open access was a possibility and all the ways one could go about it from the start of my journey with the publishers made the whole difference."
You can read more about Dr Ana Minozzo’s open access publishing experience in this blog post .
Dr Rodrigo Nunes of Essex Business School published his new book Bolsonarismo y Extrema Derecha Global: Una Gramática de la Desintegración (Tinta Limón Ediciones, 2024) using the Open Access Fund in June 2024.
Bolsonarismo y Extrema Derecha Global: Una Gramática de la Desintegración has the distinction of being our first open access funded work in a language other than English.
Dr Nunes has this to say about open access publication: "open access is a way to do what we, as academics and public intellectuals, really want to do – which is to reach the largest possible number of people with our ideas, to see them engaged with and discussed, to be part of a broad social conversation."
You can read more about Dr Rodrigo Nunes’ open access publishing experience in this blog post .
Professor Carla Ferstman from Essex Law School published her work Conceptualising Arbitrary Detention: Power, Punishment and Control (Bristol University Press, 2024) using the Open Access Fund in May 2024.
She had this to say about open access publication: "Open access meant that the book – which covers scenarios in all parts of the world – can be read by, and provoke discussions and debates with, readers around the world.
The process worked very well.
I cannot see any downsides to publishing in this way."
You can read more about Professor Carla Ferstman’s open access publishing experience in this blog post .
Dr Peter Appleton of the School of Health and Social Care published his book What Matters and Who Matters to Young People Leaving Care: A New Approach to Planning (Bristol University Press, 2024) using the Open Access Fund in April 2024.
"Hearing that Essex would fully fund open access for this book transformed my sense of how the book might be received.
I am delighted that those care-experienced and cash-strapped young people who may want to read the book, can do just that, quite apart from professionals in nascent multi-agency transition-from-care services, whose services may also be financially constrained!"
You can read more about Dr Peter Appleton’s open access publishing experience in this blog post .
Dr Alexandros Antoniou from Essex Law School published the chapter Homosexuality, Defamatory Meaning, and Reputational Injury in English Law in Diverse Voices in Tort Law (Bristol University Press, 2024) using the Open Access Fund in March 2024.
"Embracing open access resonates with my commitment to democratising knowledge.
By making my chapter freely available, I can broaden its reach, engaging researchers, practitioners, and policy makers as well as individuals who may not have access to academic resources restricted by paywalls."
You can read more about Dr Alexandros Antoniou’s open access publishing experience in this blog post .
Dr Erin Pobjie of Essex Law School published her book Prohibited Force: The Meaning of 'Use of Force' in International Law (Cambridge University Press, 2024) using the Open Access Fund in February 2024.
"I chose to publish open access so that my book is accessible to everyone, in line with the principles of open science.
Publishing OA allows me to share my ideas more broadly so that my book can hopefully make a contribution to scholarship, policy and practice on this important topic."
Dr Rebecca Clift of the Department of Language and Linguistics contributed to a major new essay collection on Embodied Scepticism: Facial Expression and Response Relevance in New Perspectives on Goffman in Language and Interaction (Routledge, 2023) using the Open Access Fund in September 2023.
"Making my chapter open access will give it unparalleled transparency and reach."
You can read more about Dr Rebecca Clift’s open access publishing experience in this blog post .
The open Access Team is rarely happier than when talking open access, so if you want to discuss options for your work, or just want to learn more , please don’t hesitate to get in touch via email on oapublish@essex.ac.uk .
Or, if you have a project ready to go, complete one of the Open Access Fund application forms:
We also handle the UKRI-mandated open access publication of chapters, monographs, and collections and you can use this form to begin the process.
And finally, here’s to making even more great Essex research available to all in 2024-25!
Open Access Fund Co-ordinator,  Library and Cultural Services, University of Essex
Sean Andersson
23 October 2023
Categories: Library Services, Researcher development, Research
Dr Alexandros Antoniou, Sean Andersson
03 April 2024
Categories: Essex Daily, Essex Spirit, Library Services, Research
Dr Peter Appleton, Sean Andersson
10 May 2024
Categories: Library Services, Research, Essex Daily
Elisabeth Kelan, Sean Andersson
21 August 2024
Categories: Essex Daily, Library Services, Research
Dr Ana Minozzo, Sean Andersson
02 August 2024
Categories: Library Services, Essex Daily, Research
Hannah Pyman
12 October 2022
Categories: Researcher development
Hannah Crago, Library and Cultural Services
Categories: Library Services, Research, Promoting and supporting your work
29 January 2024
Categories: Library Services, Research
Carla Ferstman, Sean Andersson
Dr Rodrigo Nunes, Sean Andersson
02 July 2024

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/faculty-of-arts-and-humanities/research:
As well as understanding the complexities of what it is to be human, our mission is to put human dignity and human rights at the heart of how we study the humanities, as well as to ground our work in real-life problems.
Working across disciplines – new methods for a new world
Universities are typically organised according to subject boundaries and are assessed and peer-reviewed along these lines.
Yet the most pressing human problems of our time lie across and between such disciplinary areas.
Essex was founded on the principle of interdisciplinarity, and we maintain the flexibility of spirit and collaborative ethos to work across these areas as the situation demands.
Real people with real problems
Our common focus is on people in positions of vulnerability and marginality.
We use our research and education to engage with the most urgent challenges to human dignity, in the places where they are most severely felt.
Our academics cover a broad range of interests and expertise but are bound by a shared set of concerns and a common social agenda.
Writing for the Times Higher Education, Dr Alix Green from the Department of History has described how her co-designed approach to projects can improve research impact.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/faculty-of-arts-and-humanities/research/digital-cultural-and-creative-research-network:
The Digital Cultural Creative (DCC) Research Network brings together academics from a variety of disciplines across the humanities, social sciences and health sciences.
The DCC Research Network brings together academics from across the University with strategic external partners to share ideas and develop exciting, ambitious, interdisciplinary collaborations that align with major external funding schemes.
Academic staff members working in the DCC Research Network come from a range of disciplines.
The Digital Humanities, a subset of the DCC Research Network, is a creative community of researchers and teachers within the Faculty of Humanities who use technology to understand what it means to be human.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/faculty-of-arts-and-humanities:
Our schools and departments cover a huge range of disciplines and we are dedicated to encouraging interdisciplinary approaches, so our students see how subjects interconnect.
We have an excellent reputation for the quality of student experience and are committed to helping our students develop the skills they need for the future.
Our schools and departments also consistently achieve excellent results for student satisfaction in the National Student Survey.
We seek to build on our excellent reputation for the quality of student experience while helping our students develop the skills they need for their future careers.
We include the development of relevant employability skills in degree programmes and are keen to help students gain work experience in their area of interest through internships, voluntary activity, group projects and increased links with regional business and creative industries.
Our graduates go on to a huge range of roles including teaching, the media, journalism, tourism, publishing, local government, voluntary agencies and research.
We have seen our graduates go on to jobs at leading cultural institutions and organisations including the British Museum, the National Gallery, the Victoria and Albert Museum, Tate Modern, the Royal Academy and The National Trust.
Our academics are leading major research projects ranging from the art of Latin America through to the English Civil War and the issues surrounding mental capacity.
Our Faculty's outstanding reputation for research was confirmed by the 2021 Research Excellence Framework, with Essex ranked in the top 20 for research excellence in art history, law and philosophy (Grade Point Average, REF2021).
Follow University of Essex:
We are offering four fully-funded PhD research scholarships for students to participate in one of our Sustainable Transitions DTP projects.
Each project will be interdisciplinary in nature and supervised by expert academics drawn from two (and in certain instances three) of the following five disciplines at the university; Business, Government, Law, Life Sciences and Sociology.
In the Essex Law School, we teach the law that matters.
We are freer, more daring and more experimental than many traditional law schools and our Human Rights Centre is a recognised international leader.
This school is also home to the following Institute:
We have brought three fields of study together within our School of Philosophical, Historical, and Interdisciplinary Studies to open up exciting new possibilities for dialogue and collaboration while preserving the distinct identities of each discipline.
Our School offers research-led and innovative teaching in a friendly, interconnected environment.
This school is also home to the following Centres:
The Literature, Film and Theatre Studies department has expertise in journalism, drama, English literature, creative writing, film and screen media, and courses are taught by writers, film makers, journalists and leading academics.
As a interdisciplinary department, students have the opportunity to follow specialised pathways, but are also able to combine interests across subject areas.
This department is also home to the following centres.
East 15 equips the theatre professionals of the future by providing training and industry-enriched experiences that deliver outstanding outcomes for their students.
Their courses provide rigourous training for those seeking a career in stage, TV, film and radio.
The Edge Hotel School is the first UK hotel school of its kind.
It provides industry-led hospitality and events management degrees with hands-on experience in a real 4* hotel on campus.
Edge Hotel School have a diverse academic community where different levels of industry-relevant experience and academic expertise, are brought together by shared passions and interests.
Our Essex Pathways Department is a gateway to the University of Essex.
It helps students without standard entry requirements to grow in confidence, unlock their potential, and nurture their ambitions so they can progress in academic study.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/faculty-of-arts-and-humanities/research/digital-humanities:
With reference to the influence of new technologies on ways of being human, or via the methods that new technologies offer, our academics are exploring beyond what it means to be human, and beyond the things that help us to understand the world we live in.
Our work in the Digital Humanities at Essex coheres around three broad and interrelated themes: democracy and power; space and place; and new forms of knowledge, understanding and communication.
The Digital Humanities at Essex are underpinned by the same commitment to open-mindedness, radical critique and social justice that characterises all scholarship in the Humanities at this University.
Scholars concerned with democracy and power explore the relationship between posthumanism and autonomy; the effects of technologies on social disparities; and what new technologies might mean for concepts of rights and justice traditionally centred around the individual.
Those interested in space and place consider how digital technology shapes spectatorship, especially engagement with objects; the possibilities technology offers for reparation and healing in the face of disasters and trauma; how technology reshapes our sense of ‘locatedness’ in the present and past; and what authenticity means in a world where technology is reshaping ideas of place and the meaning of memory.
Those exploring new forms of knowledge, understanding and communication consider how databases uncover and create connections between people and places to create radical new possibilities for individuals to understand their place in the world; how digital ways of working can foster collective working methods that challenge conventional notions of authorship and ownership; and how technology offers new possibilities for representation beyond linear narratives, thus reflecting the entanglement of lives and histories in today’s world.
Academic staff members working in the Digital Humanities come from a range of disciplines.
Gender, health, the household, and the body; PI, Sloane Letters Project; Co-I, Early Modern Recipes Online Project; Founding Co-Editor, The Recipes Project.
Digital technologies with a focus on digital replicas of heritage, virtual museums, and immersive environments for heritage and museums.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/faculty-of-arts-and-humanities/research/environmental-arts-and-humanities:
Environmental arts and humanities at Essex is a group of researchers and educators that apply a range of disciplinary expertise to address the urgent global climate and ecological crisis.
We are committed to working across subject areas to find innovative solutions to immediate and longer-term problems.
Our members include world leaders in their fields of study and new generation thinkers.
The distinctive strengths of environmental arts and humanities at Essex are centred on an interdisciplinary approach that brings together theoretical research with applied scholarship and practice-as-research.
Projects include creative writing, film, theatre studies, and the curation of art exhibitions as well as historical environmental studies, environmental law, literary geographies and ecologies, and ecocriticism.
We look for difficult challenges that require innovative solutions and are committed to using our expertise to confront environmental crises at local, national and global levels.
Our research is impactful at its core, bringing change and transforming how societies around the world confront some of the most serious issues that they have ever faced.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/faculty-of-arts-and-humanities/research/health-and-medical-humanities:
Health and Medical humanities is an emerging interdisciplinary field that incorporates the arts and humanities and the social sciences, and their application to understandings of medicine, health and well-being.
The distinctive strengths of health and medical humanities at Essex are an emphasis on the politicised dimensions of power and agency in everyday life, especially the differentiation of experiences according to gender, ‘race’, sexuality and age, and belief in the importance of applied practice to change individual experiences and social awareness of health and illness.
Our work in health and medical humanities clusters around three main themes: autonomy and rights; representation and experience; and embodiment and emotion.
These core themes are pursued across disciplines including art history and history; drama, theatre and film studies; law and human rights; literature and creative writing; and philosophy.
Scholars interested in autonomy and rights make creative interventions to increase well-being in, and amplify the voices of, socially and politically marginalised groups; seek to clarify concepts such as ‘decision-making capacity’, ‘will’, ‘ableness’ and ‘empowerment’ with a view to improving healthcare policy and practice; and aim to understand the relationship between health and human rights in global context in order to foster new approaches to accountability at state level.
Those exploring representation and experience want to understand how texts, images and objects have shaped self-perception and social attitudes in societies past and present; to consider the different contexts and means of articulating knowledge about health and illness, with particular emphasis on whose experiences are privileged in public discourse, and why; and to create methods for narrativising experience that can bring the human into medical discourse in new and unexpected ways.
Those concerned with embodiment and emotion examine the effects of medical abuse and violence in diverse contexts, including courtrooms, birthing spaces and battlefields; seek to illuminate patient, practitioner and carer experiences such as powerlessness and anxiety in order to help people identify, understand and better cope with what is happening to them; and open out new techniques and spaces for empathy, healing and change.
Academic staff members working in health and medical humanities come from a range of disciplines.
Reader
Gender; embodiment; psychology; trauma; illness narratives.
Gender; reproduction; embodiment; early modern recipes.
History of Jewish people in Asia; social history of drugs; social history of modern China; history of diseases, environmental history
The First and Second World Wars; death, grief and commemoration; legacies of warfare; gender and war; cultural memory; emotional histories and 20th century Britain; public history.
Twentieth-century literature; modernism; speculative/science fiction; utopian studies
Fiction and documentary filmmaking
Senior Lecturer (Deputy Dean Postgraduate Research Training)
Women making theatre for social change; protesting through performance; British theatre and human rights discourse
Chinese and East Asian theatre; world and global theatres and literatures; post-war British theatres in Europe
Creative non-fiction; ecocriticism; travel writing and theory; the interface between colonial history and postcolonialism
Somatic, healing, catharsis, witnessing, interrelation.
Disease, narrativisation, clinicalisation, therapeutic, care.
Philosophy of psychiatry; phenomenology; autonomy and the regulation of care.
Charcot, Salpêtrière, Paul Richer, pathology, scientific artworks, hysteria.
Phenomenology; action theory; cognitive and social sciences
Theory, history and practice of autonomy; ethics; political philosophy
Social and political philosophy; Frankfurt School and contemporary critical theory; aesthetic and politics
Existentialism; phenomenology; ethics; moral psychology; social/political; aesthetics

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/about/faculty-of-social-sciences:
Social scientists at Essex are seeking to change the world by asking critical questions and challenging convention.
Our trusted academics use pioneering methodologies; they draw on their extensive global research networks to uncover inconvenient truths, test and refine dominant theories, develop new areas of knowledge, and produce robust evidence to support their work.
We are keen to work with like-minded partners across the globe.
We invite you to join us in further developing our work, teaching, infrastructure, research relationships, global networks and expertise; all of which contribute to a world-leading destination for social science research.
We encourage you to explore the Faculty and learn more about what makes us a vibrant hub of social science education and research.
Here you will find links to our highly-rated academic departments, pioneering research infrastructures, highlights from our cutting edge research and details of our dedicated Faculty team.
Shaping policy and improving lives
Discover our research Centres, learn more about our teaching and the dedicated research facilities of the Faculty.
We are one of only 17 prestigious institutions in the UK to be awarded Q-Step Centre Status.
Learn more about our key role holders and view the latest job opportunities in the Faculty.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law/research/business-law:
Our members work in areas including family law, medical law, trade law, EU law, competition law, property law, banking and insurance law, maritime and shipping law, financial crime and regulation, company and insolvency law, consumer protection, investment law, internet, broadcasting and digital regulation, contract law, and tort law.
As a group of scholars, we work with a commitment to improving the theory, practice, and development of private and business law locally, nationally, and internationally.
In our work, we strive to develop efficient trade mechanisms, as well as effective competition, corporate governance, and financial market regulation, among others.
Other aspects of our work seek to balance various business interests with protecting the environment and preserving human rights such as dignity, privacy, freedom of expression and association, judicial protection, access to services of general interests, consumer protection, and safe food.
In our research, teaching, and engagement with stakeholders, our philosophy is that private law and business law can only be understood and improved by rigorous analysis, learning from other countries and disciplines, and providing practical legal solutions.
What obligations does the Law place on companies, big and small?
Hosted by Essex Law School, an expert panel discusses the history in this area, the current models used to assess liability and whether reform is needed to keep pace with our evolving business landscape.
Cluster Coordinator
Are you interested in business law and how the legal system impacts consumer and commercial markets in the UK, EU and around the world?
As a lawyer, having sound knowledge of the complexities of the ever changing regulations in this area if law is essential.
At Essex, we have a number of related courses taught by leading academics, who will give you the skills and knowledge needed to prepare you for an exciting career in business law.
Explore some of the exciting courses below, or visit our subject areas to learn more about the degrees that Essex has to offer.
If you're not sure which subject is right for you, you can always search for a course .
If you're looking for research opportunities, or to find a supervisor, you can use our research finder by searching for your research interests.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law/research/human-rights:
Our research areas include issues relating to conflict and crisis, human rights and technology, transitional justice, international criminal law, gender and human rights, international refugee law, human rights and the environment, economic and social rights with a particular focus on the right to health, business and human rights, freedom of religion or belief, public law and human rights, regional human rights mechanisms, postcolonial approaches, and human rights theory, among others.
Members of our research cluster have extensive expertise in human rights law at the national, regional and international level, both in research and practice.
They hold positions as UN Special Rapporteurs; chairs and members of UN Committees; legal advisers to UK parliamentary Committees; and members of management and advisory boards of NGOs and charities.
Our research cluster also hosts several internationally renowned human rights theorists and scholars who are undertaking cutting-edge interdisciplinary research .
Our human rights research takes place in the environment of the Human Rights Centre.
Based in the Essex Law School, it is one of the oldest academic human rights centres in the world.
Human Rights Local recently published a report on poverty and social rights in Essex.
The report documents the state of social rights in and near Colchester, home of the University of Essex Human Rights Centre.
The research uses the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights as the normative and analytical framework, and focuses on access to housing, social security, food poverty and child poverty, and access to libraries.
The report is based on quantitative and qualitative desk research, as well as 13 in-depth interviews with representatives and local officials, local community groups, local charities and non-profit organisations and academics, as well as information provided in writing by Colchester Borough Council and Essex County Council.
A shorter version of this research will be submitted to the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights for their forthcoming review of the UK’s compliance with the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, a review that will take place between 2022 and 2024.
The report can be found on the project’s website.
Dr Antonio Coco’s book, The Defence of Mistake of Law in International Criminal Law: A Study on Ignorance and Blame, as recently published with Oxford University Press (in 2022).
A short summary of the book is provided below:
The adage 'ignorance of the law is no excuse' is significantly inaccurate.
Ignorance and mistake of law do, under certain circumstances, exclude responsibility both in national and international criminal law.
This monograph updates the existing reviews of law and practice on the topic, aiming to go a step further: it takes the analysis of mistake of law as a starting point for systematic observations about international criminal law in general.
First, the volume defines the contours of the defence of mistake of law in general theory of criminal law, distinguishing it from cognate defences and highlighting, most notably, its connection with superior orders.
Secondly, it gives an overview of the possible approaches to the defence, offering examples from national law as terms of reference for the subsequent analysis of international criminal law.
Thirdly, it surveys the relevant law and practice of international criminal tribunals, with a focus on the International Criminal Court, and it contemplates offences for which a defence of mistake of law may potentially succeed.
Finally, the author tries to interpret what the rules on mistake of law applicable before international criminal tribunals imply about the purpose of punishing individuals and to the legitimacy of such punishment.
Whilst the discourse on international criminal law is more and more concerned with global politics, The Defence of Mistake of Law in International Criminal Law brings back the focus on the appropriateness of imposing a guilty verdict on the individual defendant, a human being constituting the basic unit of each society.
Dr Andrew Fagan’s article entitled ‘Taking Class Seriously’ will be published in the Human Rights Quarterly in May 2023.
This work is based upon a presentation that was presented to the Human Rights Cluster in mid-2022.
Dr Koldo Casla will also have an article published in the same issue entitled The Right to Property Taking Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Seriously.
More about both papers can be found below:
Taking Class Seriously - This article critically analyses the human rights perspective on the rising poverty and inequality afflicting increasing numbers of people within high-income, liberal democratic societies.
I argue that the human rights community is largely failing to diagnose and respond effectively to this systemic injustice suffered by many.
Developing upon existing scholarship in this area, I account for our continuing failure by focusing on social class and argue that the human rights community is afflicted by a form of class blindness.
I then develop the basis for overcoming our continuing neglect of social class, en route to what I argue is urgently needed if human rights are to provide the kind of political and ethical leadership required for effectively engaging with poverty and inequality in affluent societies: the de-gentrification of human rights.
The Right to Property Taking Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Seriously - The right to property is part of International Human Rights Law (IHRL).
However, the right is conspicuously missing from some fundamental treaties, and there are important inconsistencies in its interpretation by regional and global human rights bodies.
In light of the indeterminacy and polysemy of IHRL in relation to property, this paper articulates a proposal to rethink this right taking Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights (ESCR) seriously: the property is a human right; it includes private property as one of its forms, but this is not the only one; property has a social function; and potential clashes between property and other rights, including ESCR, should be dealt with in accordance with the principles of proportionality and public interest.
Are you interested in human rights and are captivated by the impact our research has around the world?
Do you want to become part of the fight in defending human rights around the globe?
Our academics are pioneers in the field and at Essex, our research leads our teaching.
As an interdisciplinary subject, there are a number of exciting degrees in human rights at Essex.
If your interests span various topics, you can also find a number of joint honours degrees across our many subject areas .
Bringing together diverse voices from all over the world, the Human Rights Centre podcast, 'RightsCast' applies a human rights lens to better understand current events, to discuss key and emerging issues, and to explore how to achieve social change.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law/research/public-law:
As a group of scholars, we work individually and collectively on projects across public law.
Research interests include administrative justice and access to justice; constitutional law; European Union law; management and reform of the judiciary; judicial review; comparative approaches to public and constitutional law; the regulation of property relations; equality law and the rapidly developing fields of cybercrime, internet law and the use of new technologies.
Bringing together this range of interests, we take an expansive view of the most current developments in the application of law to public bodies, both domestically and internationally.
In particular, our research engages with the relationships between public power and the often competing demands of social justice and commercial enterprise.
We employ a wide range of methods including empirical and theoretical and more traditional doctrinal approaches.
Do you have an opinion on public law?
Or the relationship between the state and individuals?
The competing demands of social justice and public power?
In our modern-day society, we face many challenges which require the expertise of lawyers with knowledge in the sphere of public law.
At Essex, we have a range of related degrees and modules, and with our interdisciplinary approach to teaching, we are confident that we have the right course for you.
Explore some of the exciting courses below, or visit our subject areas to find out more about the degrees and modules that Essex has to offer.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law/research/criminal-justice:
The Criminal Justice research cluster focusses on bringing together University of Essex researchers for the purposes of widely disseminating research, developing collaborative projects, making joint external grant applications, and creating impact.
The cluster meets on a termly basis to discuss contemporary issues within the field of criminal justice.
Membership of the cluster is multi-disciplinary and includes academics from law, human rights, criminology, sociology, economics, media and cultural studies.
The scope of the cluster covers a wide range of subject areas including corporate criminal liability, police accountability, police and crime commissioners, the impact of forensic evidence on the criminal trial, criminal justice responses to organised crime and corruption, and the inter-connections between institutional and media justice.
The group offers its members the opportunity to consolidate and jointly pursue their research interests.
It contributes to staff development while promoting research and innovation in line with the Essex Law School's and the University's research strategies.
The cluster also organises events with scholars and practitioners from outside the University.
Are you interested in a career in the field of criminal justice, criminology or politics?
At Essex, we have a number of courses at undergraduate level taught by leading academics in the field.
Explore some of the exciting courses below, or visit our subject areas to learn more about the degrees and modules that Essex has to offer.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law/research/health-law:
This Health Law research cluster brings together academics from across the University.
Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.
We work on a number of health-focused topics, including mental capacity and disability, sexual and reproductive health, and legal and social determinants of health.
In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, members of the Health Law cluster, alongside colleagues from other clusters, are currently exploring, among other topics, triage ethics, implications for the right to health , the protection of most vulnerable groups in a care-based society, and positive human rights obligations of private health providers.
We are also pursuing opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration within the University's Health and Medical Humanities research network beyond the Essex Law School.
Essex is proud of its interdisciplinary approach to teaching, so if your interests span various topics, you can also find a number of exciting joint honours degrees  alongside our excellent single honours degrees.
To find the right course for you, explore our subject areas and learn more about the degrees and modules that Essex has to offer.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law/research/law-and-technology:
This cluster captures specialisms and common interests of staff and postgraduate research students in the sphere of law and technology broadly conceived.
Our research addresses contemporary legal issues in the areas of Information Technology, Online Media and Social Media Platforms, Media Regulation, Data Protection and ePrivacy, Intellectual Property, Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Speech.
Our experts meet through seminars and workshops which aim to support staff career development, enrich the postgraduate student experience and give early-career as well as more experienced academics the opportunity to explore cutting-edge areas of research.
The TechLaw cluster is also committed to fostering collaboration on larger research projects not only between multiple academic departments but also with other institutions, industry stakeholders and funding agencies.
As our world continues to develop new technologies, so does our need for lawyers specialising in media law, cybercrime, media regulation, data protection and other areas of law such as intellectual property and artificial intelligence.
Intrigued by digital and technology law?
With interdisciplinary, research-led teaching at our core, we're confident that the right degree for you exists at Essex.
Below are two courses which might interest you, but you may wish to browse our subject areas for other exciting single and joint honours options.
If you're looking to complete a PhD, you can search for supervision opportunities in your chosen field of study.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law/research/socio-legal-studies:
We have a range of interdisciplinary, empirical and theoretical perspectives on socio-legal research represented, all broadly taking a 'law in the real world' approach.
Research within the cluster spans topics including environmental/planning, administrative justice, legal history, health law, criminal justice, mediation theory and practice, disability rights, procedural justice and beyond.
Socio-legal studies represents a cross-cutting theme and our meetings provide an opportunity for scholars to discuss a broad range of areas from a socio-legal perspective.
Socio-legal studies Cluster Coordinator
Are you interested in 'Law in the real world' and all that this encompasses?
Are you ready to find a degree that helps turn your passion into a career?
Essex has an enormous variety of related degrees waiting for you to consider.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/law/research/law-business-and-technology-id-hub:
We are proud to launch a new Law, Business and Technology Interdisciplinary Hub (LBTIDH), which aims to be the centre of excellence for interdisciplinary research on legal regulation of business (especially of technology within the business marketplace); and on how this regulation shapes and is shaped by other disciplines other than law.
It  brings together legal scholars and those from other disciplines, to work together on articles and books, and to engage in impact and knowledge transfer work, and to carry out funded research.
Our aims include building on our world-class research in business law and other disciplines to work together on articles and books, to engage in impact and KT work, and to apply for funding.
It reflects the key University commitment to prioritising interdisciplinary research.
Our vision of interdisciplinarity is a flexible and constructive one.
This includes ongoing support from colleagues from one discipline, such as offering relevant advice on a project being completed by colleagues in a different discipline, to much larger collaboration on projects.
Legal regulation of business and business related technology affects how businesses of every conceivable type are constructed; the design, production and distribution of digital and other products and services; and the interface of business with the rest of society e.g.
government, employees, customers, the environment, regulators and the courts!.
This Hub is founded partly on the conviction that we can only truly understand such legal regulation, it's challenges and how to shape its future development, by working with other disciplines.
This improves our (legal) understanding of e.g.
the nature and goals  of the business organisations being regulated; the economic, political, social and health consequences of different forms of regulation; the psychology of business organisations and those that interact with them; the technology that is being regulated and how technology can even play a part in regulation; the underpinning philosophies, political values and international relations challenges that underpin legal choices.
The Hub is also founded on the belief that we as lawyers have much to offer to these other disciplines: that these multiple other disciplines are surely enriched by understanding the legal framework and how it affects what is and is not possible and desirable.
Research on legal regulation of business and of technology within the business marketplace, is a hugely significant part of the research in the Law School.
In particular this takes place within the Business Law Cluster and the Law and Technology Cluster .
The work covers areas such as: national and transnational contracts; international and national sales; national and international trade law; EU trade law and UK trade relations post Brexit; professional and business liability for ‘negligence’; commercial property; company law and corporate governance; corporate social responsibility and human rights; insolvency; finance, insurance and banking; tenancies, mortgages and housing rights; new technology (e.g.
internet law, cybercrime, 3D Pprinting, AI, machine learning, blockchain, fintech); consumer law (e.g.
advertising, utilities, product and food safety and quality, standard contracts, pressure selling); intellectual property law (including .
copyright; trade marks; confidentiality etc); privacy and data protection issues; regulation of the healthcare market;  settling disputes involving businesses in different countries; arbitration and other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
Examples of some of our interdisciplinary work.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/literature-film-and-theatre-studies/research/ecocriticism-green-writing-and-literary-geographies:
Our department has particular strengths in ecocriticism, non-fiction and creative environmental writing, as well as literary geographies.
At PhD level, we offer research supervision in both practice-as-research (PaR) and towards assessment via thesis and viva voce examination.
Please contact our academics directly to discuss research supervision opportunities, or explore our research degrees and what to expect from a degree in the Department of Literature, Film, and Theatre Studies.
You can also find out how to apply for postgraduate research at Essex, or use research finder if you are interested in searching for further research opportunities at Essex.
The research carried out by our members informs education, and shapes courses and modules within the Department of Literature, Film and Theatre Studies .
The Department of Literature Film and Theatre Studies taught masters courses in English and comparative literature, include MA Wild Writing: Literature and the Environment.
This is a unique research-led and interdisciplinary programme that combines literary criticism, creative writing, biological sciences and field work.
University of Essex/ESRC (2016-2018)
Professor Maria Fumagalli
Dr Chris Bundock
Below are various publications from our members.
To explore our member’s other publications, please visit their staff profiles .
Dr James Canton
Professor Susan Oliver:
Professor Maria Christina Fumagalli:
Dr Chris Bundock:
Public talks
Online interviews
Podcasts and broadcast media
Professor Maria Fumagalli - Impact Project: Reframing border relations between Haiti and the Dominican Republic in the wake of the denationalization crisis: implications for society, policy, and culture

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/literature-film-and-theatre-studies/research/american-literatures-and-cultures:
This research cluster reflects the Department of Literature, Film, and Theatre Studies longstanding strengths in teaching and research in the literatures, film, and cultures of the Americas, particularly the US South, the Caribbean, and issues of US expansionism both within and beyond 'continental' geographies.
Moving away from the study of the United States as an exceptional, territorially bound space, our research approaches ‘America’ in the context of a hemispheric and global nexus of power relations and cultural production, paying particular attention to the phenomena of transculturation and diaspora.
Our approach also actively promotes the study of the Anglophone Caribbean in relation to the Francophone and Hispanophone literary, film, and artistic tradition, reframes American borders and boundaries by interrogating imperialist legacies both at home and abroad, and broadens the study of American literatures through comparison to other arts and media.
American literatures and cultures are studied in their pan-Caribbean, transatlantic and hemispheric dimension, and from an interdisciplinary perspective which includes multiple genres including novels, biographical narratives, memoirs, plays, poems, travel writing, journalism and geo-political-historical accounts.
Our research branches into the visual arts, film, theatre, performance and ekphrasis.
Members of this research cluster have produced ground-breaking works in dialogue with recent developments in cultural geography, the productive mobilization of literature/culture in human rights advocacy, and the study of gender and ethnicity.
We have strong ties with the British Association for American Studies and the Society for Caribbean Studies and members of this cluster are also members of Caribbean Studies Associations , Dominican Studies Association , the Pacific History Association , and the Society for Cinema and Media Studies .
There are a number of strands to our research within this cluster.
Research in these areas is central to many major externally funded international research projects .
We offer research supervision in a broad geographical range of literatures and cinemas, and related arts and media.
Recently completed and ongoing projects by our doctoral students include:
Can defending and celebrating cultural links help bridge the divide between Haiti and the Dominican Republic?
In the first book to explore the literary and cultural history of the two nations, Professor Maria Cristina Fumagalli identifies strong links between the nations, which has led her to challenge the notion that hostilities are so deeply embedded, they can’t be overcome.
The research carried out by our members informs education, and shapes courses and modules both in the Department of Literature, Film and Theatre Studies and the Interdisciplinary Studies Centre , within which American (US) Studies , Latin American Studies and Global Studies are based.
Recent research projects funded by the British Academy , the Leverhulme Trust , and ESRC/University of Essex Impact Acceleration Fund include:
Maria Cristina Fumagalli’s book On the Edge: Writing the Border between Haiti and the Dominican Republic (2015) was reissued as a paperback by Liverpool University Press in 2018.
Maria Cristina Fumagalli’s article entitled Morning, Paramin Derek Walcott, Peter Doig, and an Ekphrasis of Relation was published in the New West Indian Guide in 2018.
Jeffrey Geiger’s article “‘ Exquisite Wonder’: Colour Film, Realism, and the Yankee Voyage, 1936-38 ” is out now in Journal of New Zealand and Pacific Studies 8.1 (2020).
Jeffrey Geiger’s article ‘ Intimate Media: New Queer Documentary and the Sensory Turn ’ has appeared online in Studies in Documentary Film .
Jak Peake's book Between the Bocas: A Literary Geography of Western Trinidad (Liverpool University Press, 2017) was part of the “American Tropics” research project based at Essex and funded by the UK Arts and Humanities Research Council.
Jak Peake’s article ‘ Watching the Waters ’: Tropic flows in the Harlem Renaissance, Black Internationalism and other currents’ has appeared in Radical Americas in 2018
Sean Seeger's book Nonlinear Temporality in Joyce and Walcott: History Repeating Itself with a Difference , published by Routledge in 2017, is the first dedicated comparative study of James Joyce and Derek Walcott.
Owen Robinson’s book chapter ‘Don't anyone tell me that New Orleans is a filthy swamp-hole": Fate, Fever, and the City as Nexus in Baron Ludwig von Reizenstein's The Mysteries of New Orleans was published in: New Orleans and the Global South: Caribbean, Creolization, Carnival in 2017.
Owen Robinson’s book chapter “Proffered for Your Perusal in Ring by Concentric Ring” was published in The Oxford Handbook of the Literature of the U.
S.
South in 2016.
Jordan Savage’s article “ True Grit: Dirt, Subjectivity and the Female Body in Contemporary Westerns ” was published in 2020 in Zeitschrift fur Anglistik und Americanistik .
Jordan Savage’s article 'There Was a Veil Upon You, Pocahontas": The Pocahontas Story as a Myth of American Heterogeneity in the Liberal Western’ was published in 2018 in Papers on Language and Literature .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/literature-film-and-theatre-studies/research/comparative-literature-and-translation:
This research cluster brings together academics from Literature, Film, and Theatre Studies.
The study of literatures in a transnational and transcultural series of contexts is at the core of our research activity.
Our researchers work in the key original areas of British, Irish, United States, Caribbean, Latin American and also in Hispanic, Francophone, Italian, German, Polish, Yugoslav, Russian and Chinese literatures.
Our approach to literature is genuinely interdisciplinary and actively promotes the comparison of literature to other arts and media.
Members of this research cluster have driven innovation in world cinema, global theatre, interarts studies, comparative media, travel writing and postcolonial theory, and pursue translation both as theory and practice.
We have strong ties with the British Comparative Literature Association and have hosted many international conferences at Essex, including the BCLA’s Triennial International Conference on Migration in 2013, and Revolution & Evolution in 2014.
Examples of recently completed and ongoing projects by our doctoral students include:
Recent research projects include:
‘Exquisite Wonder’: Colour Film, Realism, and the Yankee Voyage, 1936-38
Journal of a Soul in Crisis: Writing on Mourning Rites of Sophie Brzeska
Immersive Embodiment: Theatres of Mislocalized Sensation
Translation and the Histories and Geographies of the Book
Intercultural and Cross-cultural Encounters during the quatercentenary of Tang Xianzu and Shakespeare
Beowulf.
A New Translation
The Pervasive and the Digital: Immersive Worlds in Four Interactive Artworks
Between the Bocas: A Literary Geography of Western Trinidad Translation, Conflict and the Politics of Memory: Jan Karski’s Story of a Secret State
Nonlinear Temporality in Joyce and Walcott: History Repeating Itself with a Difference
The Penguin Book of Oulipo
Shakespeare and the Politics Between Media

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/literature-film-and-theatre-studies/research/creative-writing-and-scriptwriting:
Researchers in this cluster work in a range of media to produce work in film, memoir, poetry, drama, performance, the novel, radio, and genre-defying work that innovates between and across forms.
Work in this cluster includes poetry and drama that engages in themes of gender and identity; and applied theatre and film that brings creative insights to the subjects of testimony, human rights and PTSD.
Translation is a strong theme within this group.
Folklore, memories of place, eco-crisis and environmental writing is strongly present in our members writing across the genres of creative non-fiction, drama and poetry.
All members in this research cluster are open to postgraduate research supervision and are currently involved in the supervision of creative doctoral dissertations across film, drama and creative writing.
There are a number of strands to our research within this cluster:
To explore our members other publications, please visit their staff profiles .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/literature-film-and-theatre-studies/research/human-rights-and-the-humanities:
Working on topics such as conflict communication, testimony, freedom of expression, statelessness and the performance of protest, a focus on lived practices is central to our approach.
We also bring the critical methodologies of the humanities to bear upon the aesthetics and ethics of human rights representations.
Our research is outward-facing and seeks to engage with different cultural institutions and civil society groups on human rights and social justice issues.
Our partnerships have included Amnesty International , iceandfire theatre company , Performing Conflict Network, Mercury Theatre, Ariadne women’s theatre collective , Ubumuntu Arts Festival , The Mosaic Rooms , Dah Teatar , Observatorio Migrantes del Caribe , Article 19 – MENA, and the National Syndicate for Tunisian Journalists .
There are four major strands to our research within this cluster.
The research carried out by our members informs education, and shapes courses and modules both in the Department of Literature, Film and Theatre Studies and East 15 Acting School.
Theatre & Human Rights
La Frontera domínico haitiana: pasado y presente
In October 2017, on the 80th anniversary of the 1937 massacre of Haitian and Haitian-Dominicans in the Dominican borderland, Maria Cristina Fumagalli and Bridget Wooding, supported by ESRC/UoE and OBMICA, travelled to the border crossing of Elías Piña (DR)/Belladère (Haiti) where they organized a series of commemorative activities aimed at celebrating and promoting solidarity and harmony among the two peoples sharing the island of Hispaniola, at foregrounding the vibrant local/border culture, and at providing the opportunity to look at and rethink the future by reassessing the past.
This video recounts what happened on that day.
Recent research projects funded by the British Academy , the Leverhulme Trust , AHRC Global Challenges Fund , and ESRC/University of Essex Impact Acceleration Fund include:
Annecy Lax’s article, ‘ To be creative is to exist’: rejecting resilience, enacting Sumud in the cultural resistance of ASHTAR theatre ' was published in Research in Drama Education: The Journal of Applied Theatre And Performance in 2021.
Sanja Bahun, ‘Beyond good and evil?
Popular songs, mathemes and bus rides (art and transition in the region of the former Yugoslavia)’ , Media, War & Conflict Vol.
13, no.
1 (2020): 70–87.
Fatima El Issawi and Francesco Cavatorta (Eds.).
The Arab Spring: Micro Dynamics of Revolt between Change and Continuity .
London: Gingko, 2020.
Fatima El Issawi and Jonathan Hill are editing a special issue on ‘ Media, Accountability and Dissent in the Middle East and North Africa ’ for The International Journal of Press Politics, expected in June 2021.
Fatima El Issawi, ‘Alternative Public Spaces in Hybrid Media Environments: Dissent in High Uncertainty’ , Journalism and Mass Communication Quarterly, 2021 (published online).
Shohini Chaudhuri’s chapter, ‘“Telegenically dead Palestinians”: Cinema, News Media and Perception Management of the Gaza Conflicts’ appears in Global Humanitarianism and Media Culture, edited by Michael Lawrence and Rachel Tavernor, published by Manchester University Press in 2019.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/literature-film-and-theatre-studies/research/speculative-humanities:
Our research analyses how speculative literatures inform decision-making from government policy to corporate futures, and the mutual influence between technology, scientific discovery and cultural forms and representations.
How science fiction appeals to rational sources for its imaginative productions, and how this has made it culturally persuasive in science and technology.
Our aim is to foster greater collaboration between the arts and humanities, the social sciences, STEM and beyond.
In summer 2020, members of the group created speculative narratives for a sandbox event that brought together multiple academics and community stakeholders to consider the social and future impact of the COVID-19 crisis.
This cluster focuses on 6 strands of research:
Our members are actively carrying out research that explores these themes.
We welcome enquiries about postgraduate research.
If you are interested in an MA by Research or in studying for a PhD, please browse our members staff profiles to find someone whose research interests fit your proposal, and get in touch via email.
You may also be interested in learning more about postgraduate study at Essex and how to apply .
As part of the University’s commitment to a transformational, research-led education the cluster develops teaching that engages students with cutting-edge thinking in the speculative humanities.
In addition to providing supervision opportunities for postgraduate students, our research directly informs existing undergraduate modules and we intend to develop new modules that correspond to the interdisciplinary nature of the cluster.
These modules include:
Below are highlights of current research activity from our members.
To explore more of our members research, please visit their staff profiles .
Professor Karin Littau in interested in media history and technology studies (Kittler, McLuhan, De Landa); dead and future media; interspecies communication; eco-materialism and extinction studies.
She has published articles on media and materialism; the robot historian and machine translation; animal/plant/mineral languages and eco-translation; and on science fiction, including the Alien film quadrilogy, and Cronenberg’s cybernetic update of The Fly.
Professor Katharine Cockin is interested in reviving the study and performance of Karel Capek’s RUR.
Rossum’s Artificial Robots.
The play is a landmark in representations of artificial life, influenced by the technological shock of the First World War.
Her research also focuses on Ellen Terry, the nineteenth-century actor and her daughter Edith Craig who was an influential theatre director and activist in the women’s suffrage movement.
Reading Robots project (2022-)
With Dr Dan O’Brien and Dr Sean Seeger, Professor Katharine Cockin launched the Reading Robots project.
Third-year undergraduate student, Anuthi Kodithuwakku Arachchige was the Frontrunner assistant on the project.
The reading group was organised using a Moodle and a film screening with audience discussion was led by Dr Dan O’Brien and Dr Sean Seeger.
Matthew De Abaitua has collaborated with the UK government's Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL) on the application of speculative literatures to future threat planning.
Professor John Preston researches the racial and classed contexts of preparedness campaigns for disasters and emergencies.
His latest book 'Grenfell Tower: Preparedness, Race and Disaster Capitalism' (2019) uses Marxist value critique and Critical Race Theory to argue that disaster preparedness increasingly works against working-class and racialised populations.
Dr Sean Seeger is engaged in interdisciplinary collaboration with a sociologist in a paper for SAGE journal Thesis Eleven, concerning the benefit of reading dystopian literature to sociology research.
Andrew Burton is a PhD student reconciling agency and dramatic structure in climate narratives.
Dr Elizabeth Kuti, professor, and playwright, for theatre and radio, created a sequence of playlets for Encounters with the Past as writer-in-residence at Hampton Court Palace.
Dr Kuti worked with an outstanding creative team including directors and actors drawn from the UK’s leading theatre companies.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/centres-and-institutes/human-rights/research-and-practice/consultancy-and-litigation:
Some of the prominent human rights-related positions held by our members include: Chairperson of the UN Human Rights Committee, UN Special Rapporteur on Torture, UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Health, UN Special Rapporteur on Iran, UN Special Rapporteur on the Freedom of Religion or Belief,  member of the Commission of Inquiry on Burundi, member of UN’s Group of Eminent Experts on Yemen, Legal Advisor to the UK House of Lords Select Committee on the Constitution, Rapporteur to the International Law Association’s Committee on the Use of Force, Law Commissioner in Jersey, and Swiss Chair of International Humanitarian Law.
Our members are also involved in the work of various NGOs and international organisations including Amnesty International , the International Committee of the Red Cross , Oxfam , REDRESS , the Euro-Med Human Rights Network , Child Soldiers International, the Sri Lanka Campaign for Peace and Justice , and the AIRE Centre .
Essex is also one of only four universities with a memorandum of understanding with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) , a development that recognises the breadth of education that Essex provides in relation to the protection of refugees.
If you're interested in finding out more about utilising our Consultancy and Litigation services, please contact us on hrccoreteam@essex.ac.uk .
Our members are also extensively involved in litigation, particularly before the European Court of Human Rights and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, and actively engage with the major UN human rights institutions.
Past activities undertaken by our members include litigating the case of Garcia Lucero and others v Chile before the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, submitting comments to the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in relation to the draft general comment on Article 12 of the Covenant, and submitting an amicus curae brief to the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Hassan v United Kingdom and Georgia v Russia cases.
As the leading centre for the interdisciplinary study of human rights, we have extensive experience providing advice and consultancy services to national and international governmental agencies including:
We have also provided similar consultancy services to numerous non-governmental organisations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross , Amnesty International , Human Rights Watch , Article 19 , Minority Rights Group , the Consortium for Street Children , and Interights .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/centres-and-institutes/human-rights:
Part of Essex Law School
We influence and set human rights agendas.
We make concrete differences around the globe, and we are a dominant voice for change.
Through our research, impact and educational activities, at Essex, not only do we lead the way in identifying, enduring and responding to human rights challenges, it's the way we apply this which defines us.
Follow us on social media
Our projects work on a wide range of major enduring and cutting edge issues in times of peace, instability, and in conflict and post-conflict settings, and at all geographical levels.
We are committed to producing the next generations of human rights practitioners, scholars and activists.
The Human Rights Centre Clinic runs exciting projects which students can get involved in, working in partnership with civil society organisations, international organisations, governments and national human rights institutions.
Professor Kevin Boyle was the longest serving director of the Human Rights Centre.
He led the Centre from 1990 to 2003 and again in 2006 to 2007.
Throughout his time at Essex, Kevin played a pivotal role in developing the Centre into the multidisciplinary powerhouse it is today.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/centres-and-institutes/human-rights/research-and-practice/health-human-rights-and-social-justice:
The Health, Human Rights and Social Justice Research Cluster brings together our leading team of academic experts who are members of the Human Rights Centre from Schools of Health and Social Care; Law; Philosophy and Art History; and Sociology.
Approaching health from the perspective of human rights and social justice, our interdisciplinary research and practice embrace themes including health data and technology; COVID-19; global health and human rights governance; health inequalities and intersectionality; gender-based violence; social determinants of health; privatisation in the health sector; mental health; sexual and reproductive health; drug policy; non-communicable diseases; and medical ethics.
Our members are national and international leaders in their field, regularly called on to advise international organisations including the World Health Organisation and other UN agencies; governments; local authorities; healthcare institutions; national human rights institutions; and civil society organisations and activists.
Through our research and public engagements, we work with a commitment to improving human rights in public health governance internationally, nationally and locally.
If you're interested in postgraduate research surrounding health, human rights, and social justice, there are supervision opportunities within the Human Rights Centre .
The Cluster brings together colleagues including those working on several health-related Human Rights Centre projects.
See below for more information on these projects.
Our members also work closely with the Human Rights Centre Clinic , which conducts key research to protect human rights globally, and runs projects that enable students to apply their human rights knowledge to practical situations and further develop their professional skills.
The Essex Autonomy Project is a research and knowledge-exchange initiative funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC).
The ESRC-funded ‘Human Rights, Big Data and Technology’ project maps and analyses the challenges and opportunities presented by the use of information and communications technology (ICT) and big data from a human rights perspective.
Established in 2009, the International Centre on Human Rights and Drug Policy is dedicated to developing and promoting innovative and high quality legal and human rights research and teaching on issues related to drug laws, policy and enforcement.
This research project enhances civil society engagement and the research capacity of the UN Special Rapporteur on the right to health.
There are a number of ways to look for research degree opportunities.
Do you have a commitment to public health, human rights and social justice?
Visit our subject areas to find out more about the degrees and modules that Essex has to offer.
If you're not sure which subject is right for you, or there's a particular course you're interested, you can always search for a course .

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/philosophical-historical-and-interdisciplinary-studies/research/race-gender-and-identity:
We use race and gender alongside other key analytical categories, such as class, sexuality, age, ethnicity and nationality, in order to understand how these various overlapping systems of power shaped (and continue to shape) people’s lives, opportunities and identities.
We are also interested in how the categories of ‘race’ and ‘gender’ have been historically constructed and when and how they are contested and transformed.
Interdisciplinary in approach, our scholarship draws on a range of sources (from the manuscript records of early modern witch-trials to oral history interviews with women in 20th-century Britain), affording rich and textured evidence on the contested meanings of identity in history.
There are three major strands to our research within this cluster.
Our expert staff are happy to supervise postgraduate research in all of these areas.
Please contact them directly for more information about supervision, or explore our research degrees and what to expect from a degree in the School of Philosophical, Historical, and Interdisciplinary Studies.
Body, Self, and Family is a major research project funded by the Wellcome Trust which examines how wider social changes affected women’s experiences of self, body and emotion from c.
1960-1990.
This research project traces the emergence of ‘Contemporary Capoeira’ through interviews conducted with surviving capoeira masters who were responsible for the development and expansion of the new, modernised style of capoeira between 1948 and 1982.
This project investigates the question of identity in pre-colonial Africa and the Diaspora by focusing on ethnonyms.
This project is home to an international group of scholars and enthusiasts who are committed to improving free online access to historical archives and quality contextual information.
Are you looking to study a history degree at undergraduate, masters or PhD level?
In the School of Philosophical, Historical, and Interdisciplinary Studies , we have a variety of courses to choose from which cover a broad range of subjects.
These include; modern history, art history, criminology, economics, literature, human rights, international relations, politics, film, and culture and society.
A degree in history is essential in helping to shape our future.
Explore our courses , or visit our subject area to find out more about the degrees and modules that Essex has to offer.
Use our research finder to explore research supervision opportunities, and learn more about the exciting research projects, groups and centres our academics and students are actively involved in at the University of Essex.
You can also search for publications
and seek out further opportunities for research collaboration.
Simply search for your area of interest.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/philosophical-historical-and-interdisciplinary-studies/research/political-cultures-class-and-citizenship:
We focus on the construction and representation of political ideas within institutions and throughout popular culture in various formats (the media, film, visual symbolism).
We also explore the impact of those ideas on the lived experience of individuals and social groups in different communities and states.
We research citizenship as a historically contingent concept which defines the relationships that exist between individuals and states, and look at how ideas about citizenship can change over time and be used by states as tools of political exclusion or appropriated by citizens to justify political resistance.
We are also interested in class formation, class conflict, and the ways in which class intersects with other key aspects of identity formation.
Researchers in this cluster pay particular attention not just to the material circumstances and institutional frameworks that shape political experience and opportunity, but also to the languages and ideologies of politics and class.
This project is funded by the Leverhulme-Trust, and aims to fill a gap in our historical knowledge regarding the effect the National Service had on young men serving in the navy, RAF or army.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/philosophical-historical-and-interdisciplinary-studies/research/war-conflict-and-memory:
We focus on war and other instances of historical conflict and trauma, exploring how they affect not just combatants but society, culture and politics more widely.
We explore how a range of factors (age, gender, class, sexuality) shapes involvement in war and conflict, and the impact of war, conflict and trauma on people, communities and states in a variety of different historical settings.
We are also interested in how people involved in or affected by war and conflict make sense of their experiences, in letters, diaries, memoirs, and interviews; in how individuals, communities and states 'remember' and commemorate wars and traumatic experiences in texts, monuments, and events; and in how and why these commemorative practices can be politicised and mobilised by subsequent generations for various different purposes.
There are five major strands to our research within this cluster.
Our School also maintains a long-standing commitment to remembering the Holocaust.
Related activities include participating in the University's Holocaust Memorial Week , organising the school's outreach project, the Dora Love Prize with local East Anglian schools, and producing the journal The Holocaust in History and Memory.
In this exciting Channel 4 documentary, Professor Lucy Noakes from the Department of History, helped actor Helena Bonham Carter uncover the experiences of her grandparent, Violet Bonham Carter, when she was working as an air raid warden during the Blitz.
This research project was funded by the European Union between 2014 and 2018, and compared two important and hitherto under-researched Chinese health-care campaigns, which were undertaken under Mao Zedong.
Gateways to the First World War was a centre for public engagement with the Great War Centenary, funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC).
Funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), over the course of three years (2017 – 2020), this project sets out to both evaluate the extent to which the range of commemorative activities undertaken since 2014 has engaged with, challenged, or changed the cultural memory of the war.
The War Memoryscapes in Asia Partnership, led by the University of Essex and funded by the UK’s Leverhulme Trust, brings together scholars from Europe, Asia and Australia to help trace the trends and developments of World War Two remembrance that is emerging across Asia.

New sentences found on https://essex.ac.uk/departments/philosophical-historical-and-interdisciplinary-studies/research/medical-humanities:
This research cluster continues to shape fast-moving interdisciplinary research in the medical humanities, both locally and internationally.
Our contributions include high-impact interventions on debates around autonomy, disability and mental health; insight, objectivity and the management of risk; and experiences of powerlessness in contexts of chronic illness, end-of-life care, addiction and moral distress.
Through this cluster, we have forged multiple partnerships across disciplines, including Law , Sociology , and Health and Social Care ; and with non-academic stakeholders, from local hospices to the UK Ministry of Justice , the Judicial College and the Council of Europe .
Our work in the medical humanities contributes to the wider Faculty of Arts and Humanities research in Health and Medical Humanities .
Learn more about our members research and interests through their staff profiles.
You can also contact members of staff for information on research supervision opportunities.
The Ethics of Powerlessness is an interdisciplinary research project of philosophers at the University of Essex.
The project started in July 2015.
Are you looking to study a philosophy degree at undergraduate, masters or PhD level?