# Site: https://www.exeter.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 495
# --------

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk:
Study
Undergraduate
Masters
PhD
Teacher training
Degree Apprenticeships
Our world-leading research
Our research is changing the world - making it greener, healthier and fairer.
PhDs and research degrees
We are committed to nurturing talent and encouraging new ideas, making Exeter a great place to pursue Postgraduate Research.
Exeter Innovation
Exeter Innovation is a partner for transformative innovation.
We harness the world leading research and education of the University of Exeter to create real and lasting impact, by working with organisations of all types and sizes on their innovation journey.
About the University
Contact us
Business and partnerships
Campuses and visitors
University of Exeter, Cornwall
News
Popular links
Students
Staff
Find your place at a top global university.
Applications now open.
Find out more
Find out more about studying here
University Open Days
Request a prospectus
Clearing 2025
The University of Exeter has placed =155th globally in the latest QS World University Rankings,  a 14-place rise in the prestigious rankings.
AMR is a pressing global health and socioeconomic crisis that poses a significant threat to human and animal health, food production and the environment.
Our 'One Health' approach to tackling AMR is key and unites disciplines to combat AMR worldwide.
Explore how our research and partnerships tackle pressing global challenges.
Find your next collaborator among our experts.
We're combining legal expertise with insight and methods from social sciences to identify and understand sources of injustice and inform evidence-based practice and policy.
We're ranked in the global top 50 for nine of the UN Sustainable Development Goals 3
1 Joint 155th in the QS World University Rankings 2026 and 172nd in the THE World Rankings 2025, 2 The Graduate Market in 2024 report by High Fliers Research, 3 Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2025: Joint 2nd in the world for Responsible Consumption and Production; joint 17th for Climate Action
The University is amongst an elite group of Higher Education institutions to be recognised as consistently providing outstanding teaching, learning and student outcomes to secure the ‘Gold Overall’ standard in the TEF assessment.
"I'm a member of the Asian Society, African Caribbean Society, and Muay Thai, as well as part of the committee of BIPOC Society and the Law Society.
I've had jobs on and off campus, as a barista and as a Student Ambassador; these have helped me become familiar with Exeter and make new connections in a place that feels like a home away from home."
Nicole, studying LLB Law at our Streatham Campus.
"Sport at Exeter has been an integral part of my university experience.
It is the reason why I met the majority of my friends, and the reason why I have enjoyed my time here so much.
The university support for all sports clubs means that you are given the opportunity to excel, regardless of whether you are a beginner or have been playing for 10 years."
Will, studying Politics, Philosophy and Economics at our Streatham Campus.
"Being older, you do wonder how much you'll grow as a person compared to younger students, but I'm completely different to who I was in first year, and that's thanks to the friends I've made, of all ages and from all backgrounds.
Also, the staff, the societies, the community.
I think I'm a better person for it."
Zac, studying Zoology at our Penryn Campus.
"I had great mentors in the department who shared resources and good practice with me.
I had full freedom to experiment with activities, I built professional relationships with colleagues and students alike.
I thoroughly enjoyed my placement and it was truly saddening to leave.
I was so grateful to have met amazing teachers who supported me in so many different ways."
Yasmin, studying PGCE Secondary Spanish at our St Luke's Campus.
Connect with us
Information for:
Quick links
Campuses
Streatham Campus
St Luke's Campus
Penryn Campus
Truro Campus

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study:
Undergraduate »
Postgraduate taught »
Postgraduate research »
Also see:
Why choose Exeter?
Our campuses
International students
Careers
Help decide if we're the right university for you - Subscribe to our email list and receive early invitations to Open Days, tips on applying, reminders of key dates and insights into student life.
Subscribe to our email list »
Life in Exeter
Life in Penryn, Cornwall
Accommodation
Ask a current student
Meet our students
Students' blog
Students' unions
Clubs and societies
Sport
Support and wellbeing
"Exeter has world class facilities, which are attracting more researchers from top institutions.
Plus, studying at Exeter gives the opportunity to live in one of the most beautiful places in the country- that’s worth a lot as an undergraduate.
Working in a huge company like GSK has given me great exposure to many different aspects of pharmaceuticals.
Alongside having a great name to put on my CV, I have gained skills in and out of the lab."
"Exeter always stood out with its highly reputable name for both academics and sport, but my choice to come specifically to Exeter and study law was solidified when I came to visit the University in person.
The positive and active vibe of campus attracted me instantly.
The variety of clubs and societies was endless, and every student I spoke to seemed to be part of at least 3 societies.
Being surrounded by active and like-minded students was a key factor in choosing what university to attend, and at Exeter it was apparent that this was definitely the case."
"As an international student, I love the inclusivity and the welcoming atmosphere.
The St Luke’s Campus exudes a note of antiquity from the outside, yet has state-of-the-art research facilities on the inside.
The labs are bright, clean, well-equipped, and great to work in.
The lab technicians have been really helpful in equipment familiarization and booking slots for testing."
"I’ve had a lot of support; I’m a bit blown away by it.
The mature student provision has been amazing, signposting me to services like AccessAbility which has been really helpful.
Every lecturer I’ve spoken to has been crazily happy to help.
They’ve suggested mitigation, or just been there to chat virtually about things like essay structure that are really alien to me."
"I had a personal relationship with my lecturers, which meant I wasn’t put off asking them for tips on how to improve my work, in fact they encouraged it!
Intimate lecture and seminar groups mean lecturers have the time and capacity to offer tailored advice.
The community feeling at Penryn helps foster academic and career advice, and I left the university a more rounded individual than when I arrived because of it."
"Throughout my degree, Exeter has really tried to mitigate the barriers that OCD has presented between me and my studies, allowing me to give my course my very best go!
Exeter students are also fundamental in creating a caring ethos through brilliant societies such as ‘Nightline’, ‘Mind Your Head’ and various peer support groups."

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/chooseexeter:
Choose Exeter
155th in the QS World University Rankings 2026 and 172nd in the THE World Rankings 2025
Top 15 in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 and the Complete University Guide 2026
Exeter graduates in the UK’s top 10 for most targeted by leading employers 1
A Russell Group university, committed to the very best research, and rated triple Gold for outstanding teaching and learning 2
1 The Graduate Market in 2024 report by High Fliers Research.
2 The Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
The Graduate Market in 2024 report by High Fliers Research
Depending on your choice of degree, you may be based at our Streatham Campus or St Luke’s Campus in Exeter, or at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
Each campus mixes new and historical buildings in grounds that are repeatedly acknowledged as some of the most beautiful and botanically interesting of any UK university.
You'll find modern facilities including libraries, teaching spaces and labs along with sports centres, shops, bars and food outlets.
Streatham Campus, Exeter
View a campus tour of Streatham Campus »
St Luke's Campus, Exeter
View a campus tour of the St Luke's Campus »
Penryn Campus, Cornwall
View a campus tour of the Penryn Campus »
The majority of students are based at our Streatham Campus.
The campus is one of the most beautiful in the country and offers a unique environment in which to study, with lakes, parkland, woodland and gardens as well as modern and historical buildings.
Located on the eastern edge of the city centre, St Luke’s is home to Sport and Health Sciences, the Medical School, the Academy of Nursing, the Department of Allied Health Professions, and PGCE students.
Our Penryn Campus is consistently ranked highly for satisfaction: students report having a highly personal experience that is intellectually stretching but great fun, providing plenty of opportunities to quickly get to know everyone.
Visiting our campuses for an Open Day , so you can talk to our students and staff and see our facilities and grounds for yourself, is one of the best ways to understand if the University of Exeter is for you.
Undergraduate Open Days » Postgraduate Open Days »
Our campuses are close to the city centre (Exeter) and town centre (Falmouth), and give amazing access to the beautiful beaches and national parks of Devon and Cornwall.
Legendary Pizzas at Exeter's On the Waterfront restaurant
Freshers Week is the perfect time to sign-up for something new!
You can enjoy our beautiful campuses all year round
Beerwolf Books in Falmouth sells books, coffee and beer!
Experience Dartmoor, famous for its rugged landscape and wild ponies
Walk, cycle or canoe to the Double Locks pub just outside Exeter
Falmouth bay, one of the many stunning sea views in the South West
Why not try kayaking or paddleboarding on the River Exe?
Enjoy paddleboarding off the coasts around Devon and Cornwall
Exmouth’s lovely sandy beach is just a short train ride out of Exeter
Discover Streatham’s beautiful ponds and green gardens between lectures
Enjoy the River Exe at Exeter’s historic quay and beyond
Grab a coffee at one of Exeter’s independent coffee shops
Streatham’s green campus is just a short walk to Exeter city centre
Enjoy the variety of independent shops on Fore Street, Exeter
It’s just a short stroll from halls to lectures on our scenic Penryn campus
Swanpool beach in Cornwall is a great place for a day out with friends
Dartmoor offers limitless opportunities for hiking and outdoor pursuits
You can eat out at many restaurants in Exeter, some have rooftop bars!
The modern Princesshay shopping centre has Exeter’s iconic cathedral as a backdrop
One of many festivals that take place at Falmouth harbour
Gandy Street in Exeter, rumoured to be the inspiration for Diagon Alley in the Harry Potter books
The University of Exeter Women's Rugby Club celebrate a win
Climbing the steep steps of Stepcote Hill in a historic quarter of Exeter
Relaxing on the beautiful Cathedral Green in the centre of Exeter
The Forum is a bustling hive of activity on Streatham Campus
This festival in Falmouth is one of many that take place throughout the region
Ask a current student »
Find your course

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/our-campuses:
The University of Exeter is spread over three campuses, two in Exeter, Devon one in Penryn, Cornwall .
Both locations offer green campuses in some of the most beautiful parts of the country and are home to 22,000 students from over 130 countries, plus thousands of academic, research, and support staff.
Research and education as part of the Medical School takes place at the Knowledge Spa in Truro, as well as the RILD Building at RD&E Wonford in Exeter.
On these pages you can find campus maps, directions and information about public transport options.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/student-life:
Student Life
We have some of the most satisfied students in the UK - their opinions about the quality of their student experience here have consistently rated us highly for overall student satisfaction in the National Student Survey.
The University of Exeter has three campuses across the South West; two in Exeter and one in Penryn, Cornwall.
Our unique location means we offer world-class education in one of the UK's most beautiful locations, with modern towns, beautiful beaches and stunning countryside right on our doorstep.
Streatham and St Luke’s campuses are in the historic city of Exeter, with plenty of shopping, nightlife and a rich cultural scene.
Exeter has good transport links to the rest of the UK and our students love how safe it feels.
Penryn Campus is located near to the seaside town of Falmouth in Cornwall, with a close-knit student community and a laid-back vibe.
Its stunning beaches offer opportunities for sports and outdoor activities.
At the University of Exeter, you’ll get lots of opportunities to try new things, develop an existing hobby or skill, or do more of what you love.
From joining a society to playing national competitions with a sports team, your university life can be anything you’d like it to be.
Sport and exercise
Going to university is great fun and will be full of opportunities, however depending on your personal circumstances, we understand that things may not always seem so easy.
We want you to be able to complete your degree despite any challenges you might face.
Your wellbeing whilst at university is really important to us and we have advisors on hand to help support you in areas such as:
Careers and your future
Funding and scholarships
Want to know more about what it's like to study at the University of Exeter?
Speak to one of our current students now through our online chat and messaging system to find out.
See what our current students have been up to on social media.
Current student bloggers »
“If I had to give any advice to new students, I’d say – don’t be afraid to get involved straight away, even if it feels a bit intimidating.
Say yes to things, even if you’re not sure – that’s how you meet people and find what you enjoy.
Facility-wise, I honestly don’t think you can beat it.
The gym is really impressive, especially the Athlete Development Centre which is specifically for performance athletes.”
“I fell in love with the Streatham Campus because of how green it was and the fact that it is so close to the beach - it is definitely in a great location.
My course, BSc Marketing and Management, shares a lot of modules in its first year with students doing other Business School courses, which has been great for meeting loads of different people from all walks of life."
“Applying to Exeter was a no-brainer because of its global reputation in ecology, and the quality of research published.
Conservation is essential all over the world which is why I love the international approach taken by my course, whether it be learning about the work of the academic staff or going on field courses.”
"I have been exposed to a wealth of exciting job roles and academic possibilities both during and after the course.
The facilities and environment provided at the University of Exeter couldn't have been more conducive to allowing me to successfully navigate my journey back into higher education and provide a wonderful backdrop to the course."
“I’m originally from Ukraine, so the education system in England has been completely new to me.
One of the things I really enjoy about my course is how it’s structured.
We have a lot of interactive lessons like seminars and workshops instead of just lectures every day
The professors are very approachable and always ready to help with questions or learning support.
I’ve also found the 1:1 meetings with my academic tutor incredibly helpful for reflecting on my progress and planning my next steps."

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/careers:
As well as studying a subject you are passionate about, one of the main reasons for going to university is to get a great job after graduating.
Here are just some of the reasons why we are the university of choice for many career-minded students:
1 - The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 and the Complete University Guide 2026 2 - The Graduate Market in 2024 report by High Fliers Research
Our graduates go one to work in a variety of sectors all around the world.
Top employers of University of Exeter graduates include Ernst & Young, Deloitte, KPMG, NHS, Sky, Morgan Stanley and HSBC, to name but a few.
Employers recruit graduates who can show evidence of team work, leadership or who have spent time travelling and experiencing new situations and cultures.
Everything you do socially, academically and in the workplace can make you more employable.
We will help you to identify and articulate these skills to prospective employers:
Member of the Career Development Institute
Top 5 Best Careers Service’ according to Student Crowd
Career Support »
The 'Career Zones' at our Streatham and Penryn campuses offer help at all stages of your career planning, whether you are still deciding what to do, planning for your future, or competing for jobs.
Enhance your CV »
There are a whole range of CV boosting opportunities that you can get involved with whilst studying; from learning a language or studying abroad to volunteering in the local community.
Real work experience »
Even if your degree doesn’t include a placement as a core element of the course, we offer excellent opportunities to gain real business experience.
After graduation »
As a graduate from the University of Exeter, you are not only entitled to all of the fantastic resources that our Alumni Office can offer, you also have access to the Career Zone for three years after you graduate.
How do you land your dream job after university?
Recent graduates share their tips and hints to give you the best chance of getting the job you want on graduation.
At a special event in London, we caught up with MSc Engineering and Management alumna Apurva.
Hear her talk about her career since graduation and what she enjoyed about studying at the University of Exeter.
During a special event in China, we had the chance to meet with Kevin, an alumnus of the MSc Financial Analysis and Fund Management programme.
Hear him talk about why he chose to study in the UK and how his degree helped him advance his career.
Alumni Lisa from Canada talks about her experience of studying for a LLB Graduate Law at Exeter, and her career to date.
Emma talks about studying for an MA Curation and a PhD in Art History & Visual Culture by Practice at the University of Exeter.
Alex talks about his experience of studying for a PGCE at Exeter, and his career as a Maths teacher at Purbeck School in Wareham, Dorset.
Esmie Jikiemi-Pearson is the Sunday Times Bestselling author of The Order of Legends trilogy.
Inaugural winner of the Future Worlds Prize in 2020, her debut novel, The Principle of Moments, was published in January 2024 , by Gollancz.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/funding:
Funding and scholarships for students
Tuition fees and student loans are always in the news and can change with government policy.
Whatever happens, we are committed to attracting and supporting the brightest students, no matter your background.
Because we’re determined not to let financial worries put anyone off studying, we offer bursaries to complement government loans for low household income families, scholarships for exceptional students, sportspeople and those meeting other criteria as well as expert funding advice and guidance.
Search our Funding Database >>
Postgraduate Taught
Postgraduate Research
Be the first to hear about scholarships and funding opportunities by subscribing to our email list
Sign-up now

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/international:
We are top 150 in the world 1 .
We are a member of the prestigious Russell Group of UK universities.
Our Business School is 'triple crown' accredited (EQUIS, AACSB, AMBA).
We are joint 155th in the QS World University Rankings 2026.
Bachelors Study
Masters Study
Apply for 2025
Follow our channels for international students:
We offer a range of top ranked subjects at Undergraduate Degree and Masters Degree level: Business, Accounting, Finance, Engineering, Computer Science, Data Science, Analytics, Renewable Energy, Marketing, Law and Entrepreneurship to name just a few.
The University of Exeter International Study Centre offers a range of courses for international students who do not meet the academic and/or English language requirements for direct entry to the University, including:
View all University of Exeter International Study Centre programmes
We are a Top 15 UK university 2 .
Located in south west of England (2.5 hours by train from London).
Beautiful, green campuses with fantastic facilities, in one of the safest parts of England 3 .
30,000 students, including 7,000 international students from 150 countries.
Top 5 in the British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) league for the last six years.
Over 400 clubs and societies , from Harry Potter (JK Rowling attended Exeter) to football, surfing, drama and dance.
Our outstanding teaching and learning was rated Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
Exeter graduates are in the top 10 for most targeted by leading UK employers 4 .
BA Management with Marketing
"The years spent studying in Exeter have been the best years of my life.
I was able to make friends that turned into family and become more independent.
Studying with students from all around the world means you get to learn about different cultures and how they think about the same topic differently.
Through this experience, I have been able to develop my communication skills a lot more and have learnt to be more confident about the choices I make and the actions I take."
MSc Environment and Human Health
"I was attracted to the course as the programme was taught by experts and researchers from diverse fields (including Public Health, Environmental Epidemiology, Psychology, and Economics) at the European Centre for Environment and Human Health, thereby making the course robust and unique.
My biggest highlight was when I received a report that my MSc thesis was graded as a Distinction (83%)."
BSc Psychology
"The University of Exeter has always been one of my top choices since high school, and the modules here are interesting.
The facilities and campus are also extremely nice, while the students here are very helpful.
I was always very interested in Psychology, especially about how the brain works, the different mental illnesses that people have and why.
Based on these interests, I thought that studying Psychology would be appropriate for me."
BSc Business Economics
"One of the main skills I’ve gained is learning to really prioritise the things that are meaningful to me.
Before university, my parents would help me manage my time or would choose my priorities for me, but when I am here I have the freedom to choose.
It’s definitely made me more disciplined."
MA in International Relations
"Exeter has contributed to fulfilling my dream as it provides a Career Zone to help students seek job opportunities in the UK and oversees.
There is a wonderful campus environment and great atmosphere that is suitable for studying a Masters degree."
BSc Medical Sciences (Pharmacology & Therapeutics)
"The Medical Sciences degree was challenging, but I thoroughly enjoyed learning so much about science and human health.
I’ve made wonderful friends along the way and done a myriad of fun things with them from Christmas Balls and End of [Sport] Season Dinners to Exmouth beach trips and Varsity rugby matches.
I am extremely sad that my time in Exeter has come to an end, but I am wholeheartedly looking forward to using acquired knowledge and skills in the new chapter of my life!
#bleedgreen #exeteruni #exeterforever"
"The University is famous for its excellence in teaching.
There are lots of senior and experienced lecturers.
I like it as it is a campus based University, which means that many resources and buildings are easily accessible.
It is also very quiet, yet an exciting city with passionate students and teachers.
I believe that this can provide me with a relaxing university experience that I will never forget.
Exeter may be small, but there is always good food everywhere.
Not only local cuisine, but Chinese, Japanese and Thai cuisine."
MEd Tesol
"I decided to come to the University of Exeter because it was the only university that offered me such a great variety of optional modules so I could study what I am really passionate about.
Having the Colfuturo-Ayudar scholarship means I do not have worry about having a part-time job or paying for accommodation, food, etc.
It means I can focus on my studies, extracurricular activities and travelling."
Life as an international postgraduate student at the University of Exeter
Raishal, an MSc Business Analytics student from India, shares her experience of Exeter and her top tips for making the most of university life.
> Hear more stories from our students by visiting the Students' blog
International Student  Experience Strategy
Our International Student Experience Strategy follows the five themes, developed from the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) #WeAreInternational Student Charter, a framework for a world-class international student experience, from pre-arrival to post-graduation.
1.
127th in the U.S.
News & World Report Best Global Universities 2025-2026 2.
13th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 and 11th in the Complete University Guide 2026 3.
Devon and Cornwall ranked top 5 for safety, with lowest crime rate in England and Wales (Office for National Statistics 24/10/24) 4.
The Graduate Market in 2024 report by High Fliers Research.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/ask-a-student:
All of our online ambassadors are current students from our Exeter and Cornwall campuses, and are studying a range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
They are all available now to answer your questions, and will reply as quickly as they can.
You can search by level, area of study and country if you have a specific question.
Otherwise, all our student ambassadors will be very happy to answer general questions about student life or living in the South West of England.
Please read our community guidelines
Speaking with our current students is a great way of getting a more detailed insight into what being a student at the University of Exeter is like.
To ensure that everyone gets the most out of the experience, all users must meet our Community Guidelines, details of which can be found below.
Everyone is welcome.
Debates and different opinions are fine, but not if they make others feel unsafe or threatened.
Treat others in the community how you would expect to be treated yourself.
Bullying of any kind is never acceptable.
Personal attacks, inflammatory remarks, profanity, or degrading comments about things such as race, religion, culture, sexual orientation, gender, or identity will not be tolerated.
Speaking freely makes interactions in communities fun and interesting, however please be mindful of others.
We are unable to monitor conversations in private groups or direct messages so mutual trust and respect is expected.
We also ask you not to spam or post irrelevant links or promotions.
We understand that you enjoy connecting on other social networks, but we advise against giving out your personal details such as telephone number, usernames, full name or location.
The University of Exeter can moderate Unibuddy Community, but we do not have the ability to act in any other platforms you use to make connections.
If you are upset by something someone has posted, be sure to report it using the moderation instructions.
We can then act and remove the comment.
We can also remove the user from the platform if appropriate.
You can also personally block other users, so they won’t be able to contact you again.
Of course, we want you to be yourselves, but we also want to ensure that every member of our university community feel safe and welcome.
The University of Exeter is an inclusive community, where everyone has the right to be treated with respect, and we expect all staff and students, including applicants, to ensure this.
For more information, please look at our Support and Report webpages .
Unibuddy will give you the option to upload a photo and some information about you in your profile.
This is not something you have to do, if you don’t want to.
It is not a requirement and you'll still be able to use the platform if you choose not to.
Other Community users will be able to see your profile and messages, so please only share information and comments that you feel comfortable with others reading.
By logging on to the community and joining the chat, you agree with the rules outlined above.
If you break one of these rules, you may be removed from the Unibuddy Community platform.
Messages posted in public groups are read and moderated frequently by university staff, who may delete messages if deemed inappropriate or offensive.
This is done to protect you and other users.
If you feel a message is not appropriate, please report it following the steps below.
All users can block or report inappropriate users within Unibuddy Community.
When you block a user, the admins (within Student Recruitment Operations) are alerted to this and able to take appropriate next steps.
This can include completing the block so that user is unable to login or contribute further to Exeter’s Community.
All users can be reported and moderated, including University staff.
Scroll down to meet our current ambassadors *.
* If you are you looking for scholarships or bursaries to help finance your study, we advise searching our funding database to see what you might be eligible for.
A limited number of Global Excellence Scholarships are awarded to those of outstanding academic quality**.
Information about our academic and IELTS English Language requirements can be found on the relevant programme page .
Details of other language tests we can accept and the scores required can be found on the English language requirements page .
We welcome applications with interim transcripts and/or prior to sitting an English test.
If you are still unclear about the admissions process or entry requirements, please contact our Admissions Team through their online form .
**Not available in all disciplines.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Undergraduate Study
View all courses
Open Days & visits Get a prospectus
Help decide if we're the right university for you by signing up to our email list »
Explore your options through Clearing at the University of Exeter – opening 5 July.
Find your place through Clearing 2025
Why Exeter?
Outstanding facilities, teaching and research - find out why we think you'll love it here.
Student life
Find out about student life at Exeter and the huge range of sports, clubs and societies on offer.
With green campuses in Devon and Cornwall, our students live in the most beautiful part of the UK.
We warmly welcome international students and work hard to help you make the most of your time here.
We'll help you get the skills and experience you'll need to compete in today's competitive job market.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses:
Click on a subject heading below to view the courses available, or view all › or see an All courses A-Z listing .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/open-days:
Open Days
University open days give you the chance to experience a university first-hand, finding out more about your course, campus, and student life.
Our open days are the perfect way to explore studying at the University of Exeter; you will meet world-class academics, talk to current students, and take part in subject-specific sessions.
Know the subject your interested in?
Be sure to register for events on the campus where your course is taught.
Our three campuses are situated across Devon and Cornwall, in the beautiful South West of England.
We offer world-class education and research with outstanding student satisfaction, committed to working with our students to make the world greener, healthier, and fairer.
With beautiful, green campuses in Devon and Cornwall, we offer a unique opportunity to study in one of the most stunning parts of the UK.
As a member of the Russell Group , we are committed to maintaining the very best internationally recognised research, and translating our research into an outstanding teaching and learning experience.
Our excellence is recognised by organisations worldwide, with Exeter graduates in the UK's top 10 for most targeted by leading employers * .
* The Graduate Market in 2024 report by High Fliers Research
What happens at a University Open Day?
Open Days are a great way to discover all about the University of Exeter - our degree programmes, support services and student life.
They’re designed to help you with those first steps of seeing whether our university and programmes are right for you.
Undergraduate Open Days typically run from 09:00 until 16:00.
Alongside bookable subject sessions, you will have the opportunity to attend a variety of general talks (student life, applying to the University etc) and information/academic stands, as well as taking tours of the campus.
Our friendly and welcoming Student Ambassadors are also always on hand to answer any questions you may have about studying and living in Exeter.
When are you supposed to go to Open Days?
You probably want to research your university options at the beginning of the year, the year before you are planning to start your course.
It is then a good idea to check the Open Day dates of the universities you are interested in and attend Open Days for your short-listed University choices, usually between Jan-Sept the year before you enrol.
At the University of Exeter, we usually hold our Open Days across a selection of dates in May and October.
February-March are when we normally hold our Offer-Holder Visit Days ; these days are specifically for applicants who are holding an offer with us and are designed to help you make a decision on whether Exeter is the right choice for you.
If you can’t wait for an Open Day and are keen to visit our campuses, you can book onto one of our Campus Tours .
Why should I attend an Open Day?
Open Days are designed to provide an opportunity to consider whether the universities on your shortlist (probably your top 5) could be right for you.
If you are about to spend at least 3 years of your life there, you want it to be a good choice!
What to consider?
Look at the course, location, university reputation and any other factors that might be important to you.
If you want to visit one of our campuses sooner, then you can book onto one of our 60-90 minute campus tours or take part in one of our virtual tours .
The schedule of tour dates is published on the booking page about 1 month in advance, so look out for these.
Does attending an Open Day give me priority for my application?
Attendance at Open Days will not affect your application to the University of Exeter; we do not prioritise applicants who attend Open Days, so they are certainly not compulsory to attend.
Universities may use attendance data to reflect on general engagement of the Open Days to help make future events better.
However, attending an Open Day and perhaps having the opportunity to find out more about the course you are interested in, may help give you inspiration for points to include in your application, such as why you have applied for a particular course.
Attending an Open Day can also enable the university to know that you are interested in a specific course and they may follow up with further details about the course you’re interested in, or general information about applying to their university.
Can I just turn up to an Open Day?
Our Open Days can be very popular!
Therefore, rather than just turning up, we ask visitors to complete a booking form for open days in advance, so we do not exceed visitor number capacity.
This also enables us to provide a better experience for you, including all the relevant information you need to plan ahead for the day.
If an Open Day is fully booked, you can find other available dates on our Undergraduate , Postgraduate , and PGCE Open Days webpages.
You can sign up to receive notification of when future booking dates may be available via our expression of interest form .
What if I can't attend an Open Day?
We know how busy life can be, which is why we offer a range of other options for applicants who can’t make the Open Day dates.
You can join us for a Campus Tour , run by our fantastic Student Ambassadors, or learn more about studying with us through our Undergraduate and Postgraduate Open Day portals
If you have an offer from us, you’ll be invited to join an Offer-Holder Visit Day on the relevant campus.
These run from February to April, and we’ll email you with dates and times.
Don’t worry if you can’t attend an Open Day – it won’t impact your application.
Is there a difference between autumn and summer Open Days?
Personal choice!
The Open Days run much the same, so it is up to you whether you would prefer to visit in Autumn or Summer.
We usually offer dates through the year, so that you have a greater range of dates to choose from and fit in around any personal commitments you already have.
Where can I park for an Open Day?
We know that making travel plans is an important part of being able to attend an Open Day.
We’d encourage you to consider sustainable travel options to visit our campuses .
Dependent on which event or campus you’re visiting there may be different parking options available, and we’d encourage you to check your booking for further information about the options.
If you have a Blue Badge there are a range of accessible parking spaces available across our campuses.
On the Streatham campus in Exeter, the majority of accessible spaces are available in car park C (also called "Visitor Car Park" on some signage).
Is there accommodation available on campus for Open Days?
During most of the year, our on-campus accommodation is in use by our current students, meaning it’s not possible to stay on campus for an Open Day.
We do have useful information about places to stay nearby, please see the following links to find out more about hotel and restaurant offers for our Open Day guests:
Are there any bursaries for Open Days?
We want our university to be accessible to as many students as possible.
If you are a care leaver or taking part in widening participation programmes such as University of Exeter Scholars and Realising Opportunities , you may be eligible for bursaries to support with travel to Open Days, plus other benefits.
The University of Exeter offers other support to widening participation students for those who may face additional challenges in both accessing Higher Education and throughout their studies.
Is it okay if I go to an Open Day by myself?
It is absolutely fine to attend an Open Day on your own!
A number of students do attend alone, and many prefer to do this.
Going on your own has the advantage of you being able to set your own agenda and take in the Open Day at your own pace.
On the other hand, it can be nice to look around with a parent or friend and have someone to discuss the university with and bounce ideas off.
Can I bring guests or pets with me?
Yes, we do welcome guests – furry, four legged ones included!
Guests are welcome to attend the Open Day event with you and they do not require an individual ticket.
However, please be aware that we may need to limit pre-booked subject talks to prospective students only.
If spaces are available in the sessions, guests are welcome to join prospective students.
There is no guarantee that your guests will be able to join those sessions; but this can be a perfect opportunity for your guests to sample one of our many coffee outlets or eateries!
Guests of booked attendees are welcome to join the central activities (such as campus and accommodation tours, general presentations, information fair etc.).
In general, dogs are allowed on campus but only service dogs can enter buildings; other dogs should stay outside buildings, but are most welcome on the grounds.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/prospectus:
Our prospectus is your essential guide to discovering what the University of Exeter has to offer.
Discover our commitment to academic excellence, explore student life across our stunning Exeter and Cornwall campuses, and get a real feel for living and learning in the beautiful South West.
With insights into our accommodation options, sports and societies, financial and student support, and how to apply, this guide contains everything you need to start you on your journey to studying with us.
For detailed information on our different undergraduate degrees, please visit our course pages .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/clearing:
Apply now (UK students)
Apply now (international students)
Clearing is now open at the University of Exeter.
Apply now and secure your place for this September.
Whether you’re applying late or rethinking your choices, secure your place at a Top Russell Group university.
Unlock new opportunities and become a part of our vibrant community at Exeter.
We welcome diverse qualifications and students from all backgrounds.
We have a limited number of places remaining on programmes across our campuses in Exeter and Cornwall.
To find an up-to-date list of remaining vacancies:
See remaining vacancies for UK/Home students See remaining vacancies for International students
Set in beautiful safe, green campuses in the South West of England , there are plenty of reasons to Choose Exeter .
But don’t just take our word for it.
Read our Students’ Blog and check out our student-led Instagram account @exeterunilife to find out what they love about studying at the University of Exeter.
If you already have an offer from us
If you are already holding a conditional offer at Exeter, please check your status in UCAS Hub from 08:00 on Thursday 14 August.
If you have already received your results, please make sure these are sent to the Admissions Office at ug-ad@exeter.ac.uk .
Please note that no changes will be visible in UCAS Hub from 14:00 on Friday 8 August until the UCAS embargo is lifted at 08:00 on Thursday 14 August (UK time).
During this embargo period we cannot discuss applicants' results or offer status.
If you receive your results prior to 14 August, we regret we cannot discuss your suitability for a place until 14 August and appreciate your patience.
Clearing is just another way to apply to university.
There are various reasons why you might go through Clearing - you might be applying after the UCAS deadline, or if you didn’t meet the conditions of your offers, or if you’ve declined your firm place.
If you receive an offer through Clearing you will also be invited to join us for our clearing visits on 15th and 16th August, details of how to book will be in your offer email.
From information on how to apply through Clearing, to top tips and FAQs – find out more about preparing for Clearing .
Clearing for UK students
Clearing for international students
The latest Graduate Outcomes Survey shows our graduates are going on to amazing things in graduate level work and further study.
And with our Careers Service ranked 3rd** in the UK in the 2025 StudentCrowd Best University Careers Service Awards, you’ll have the support you need to succeed and build the future you want.
*Relative rank calculation takes the number of full-time, first degree home student graduates, who get a graduate-level  job or go on to further study.
This is divided by the total number of graduates with known destinations.
The score is shown as a percentage.
**HESA/JISC Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024, destinations of the 2022/23 cohort, 15 months after graduating.
Our friendly staff are here to support you throughout your application journey and help you feel confident throughout Clearing.
You can also contact us for specific questions.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Or view all courses
View courses that start in January 2026 »
Attend an Open Day Get a prospectus
Apply for a Masters
Learn more about applying for Postgraduate study.
Tuition fees and funding
Find out more about fees and funding for your Masters.
More than 7,500 students from 150 countries contribute to our thriving student community.
Immigration and visas
The International Student Support Office offers advice on immigration and visa matters.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/online:
Online study
Our online programmes enable all our students to learn from academics who are leaders in their fields and passionate about bringing their latest research into their teaching.
Our programmes will challenge you to explore new ideas, ask questions and solve problems.
By studying an online programme at the University of Exeter, you’ll discover how to direct your own learning and take an active part in creating knowledge, ensuring you learn how to think and not simply what to think.
The latest digital learning technologies and careful course design enables us at the University of Exeter to foster a collaborative online study experience for all our students.
You’ll get to work with other students taking part in discussions and group activities.
You’ll receive feedback from academics to help you develop your understandings that will make an impact in both your professional and personal life.
Whether you would like to advance your career, enhance your existing skillset or are interested in a change of direction in your professional life, there’s never been a better time to complete one of our online courses.
Online Masters
Online PGCerts
Short courses
We are a Top 15 UK university 1 .
Flexible programmes to help you fit in study around your life.
Top 200 in the QS World University Rankings 2025 2 .
The MSc Psychology (Conversion) programme is really fascinating.
I’m diving into topics that I’ve been interested in before, but now I’m getting a chance to discover more about them in greater detail.
I’ve also loved the friendships I’ve made.
We’ve started a WhatsApp group and are sharing the highs and lows of studying online.
It’s replaced the time you’d usually spend in the coffee shop after a lecture if you were on campus.
Read more from Carys
Carys
MSc Psychology (Conversion) Online student
1 13th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 and 14th in the Complete University Guide University League Tables 2025 2 169th in the QS World University Rankings 2025

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/prospectus:
Discover our commitment to academic excellence, our thriving research community, finance and scholarship advice, how we support your career, and how to apply.
This guide contains everything you need to start your journey towards postgraduate study with us.
For detailed information on our different postgraduate degrees, please visit our course pages .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/pg-research:
Postgraduate Study - PhD and Research Degrees
Find out more about Postgraduate Research at the University of Exeter by signing up to our email list
Join our community of experts and search for your PhD supervisor.
How to apply
Learn more about applying for a Postgraduate Research degree
Fees and funding
Find out how much your research degree will cost and funding options
Outstanding facilities, teaching and research - find out more

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/pg-research/degrees:
Research
Types of degrees
Funding your degree

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/pg-research/funding:
Money is the single biggest barrier to people undertaking postgraduate study, and securing funding for your PhD is vital to realising your ambitions.
These pages will help you estimate how much studying for a postgraduate degree will cost, explain how to search for scholarships, studentships, bursaries and other awards you might be eligible for, and introduce a number of alternative ideas that can help you fund your postgraduate studies.
Specific fees are listed in every programme entry under the 'Finance' tab.
You can find out more about our fee structure and your fee status on our fees page .
As a member of the Russell Group, we attract funding to support postgraduate study and research from all major research councils through a number of high profile Funded centres , and via a multitude of philanthropic sources, as well as investing heavily ourselves.
You can find out more on our specific PhD funding page.
Our Alternative funding page offers more ideas for how to help fund your postgraduate research degree, at any level of study.
You can also search for funding via our funding database - which contains details of every single PhD studentship we offer, as well as numerous bursaries and non-academic scholarships.
How much will it cost
Whether you're studying for a Masters or researching for a PhD, your tuition fee is only one part of the cost of doing a postgraduate degree: you also have to consider accommodation and living costs.
Tuition fees vary for Home/EU students and International students.
Our general research degrees fees page will help you determine which apply to you.
Research degree tuition fees vary across different disciplines, so please refer to Finance tabs on the relevant degree page to confirm exact costs.
Accommodation costs will vary depending on whether you live in private or University-owned accommodation.
More details regarding accommodation, including costs, are available on our accommodation page .
The National Union of Students estimates student living costs, including accommodation, to be approximately £12,000 per year outside London.
Living costs are, to some extent, up to you.
You will need to make choices about how you live and what your priorities are, but make sure you factor in:
You might find the Which Student Budget Calculator useful in planning your budget.
International students may incur additional costs - please see our visa webpage for more details.
Student finance is different for everyone, and can be complicated.
If you have any questions, please contact our Student Information Desk (SID) .
Funding hints and tips
There are several things to consider when you're starting to look for funding for your postgraduate degree.
If you have an inkling that you might want to do a postgraduate degree, then you can start planning and saving right from the off.
Wages from weekend or summer jobs, siphoning off small chunks of your undergraduate student loan, and any other small bits of long-term saving you can do will really help, especially if you put this money somewhere sensible where it will grow and where you can’t give in to temptation and spend it on a whim.
Many PhD students can also take advantage of studying on a part-time basis in order to work alongside your research.
See our degree durations page for more information.
If you're applying to do a PhD, it's worthwhile talking to your potential supervisor about funding early on.
Many academics have access to funds from multiple sources that can be diverted to provide a bespoke studentship for the right candidate.
These types of opportunities are rarely promoted as they're not standard studentships from research councils.
Academics may also know about other potential routes to funding only promoted via specific academic networks.
When applying for funding remember that awards are competitive, and sell yourself accordingly; tell the funding body or institution why you deserve this money more than the next applicant and what you plan to do with your postgraduate qualification when they’ve helped you pay for it.
Don’t just look for big, eye-catching scholarships; everyone else will be chasing these too, and you can normally only hold one scholarship from a university or Research Council, which is where most large awards come from.
There are hundreds of small, often very local charities that specialise in providing small grants – maybe £500 – for educational purposes, and you can hold as many of these as you can apply for and successfully be awarded.
Receiving a handful of small awards like this can quickly take a sizeable chunk off your tuition fees.
There are more ideas about how to pay for your postgraduate degree on our alternative funding page .
Making your money go further
Undergraduate students can only borrow 15 items from the University library system, but PhD students and other postgraduate researchers can borrow 40, meaning you can avoid buying every text book and piece of further reading.
eBooks can help further still.
Selling your old textbooks if you don’t need them anymore can also make you a surprising amount of money, especially if they’re in good condition and still current editions.
A more mature approach to shared living can really help a postgraduate student house save money; planning food shops together and batch cooking so you can freeze meals in advance is much more economical.
Taking a packed lunch to campus might make you feel like you're at school again, but will save you money.
Universities usually offer plenty of flexible and part-time work that can fit itself around postgraduate study, especially if you’re studying part-time.
This might be teaching undergraduates if you’re working towards a PhD, or it could be working in a customer service or admin role, for instance as a student ambassador.
If you have to travel to campus then minimise the amount of journeys you make by coordinating campus-based activities to be on the same day.
Or think about getting a bicycle if it’s not too far.
Don’t forget student discount; many retailers offer this, and you’re still eligible as a postgraduate.
Self-funded
Self-funded projects where applicants will need to pay their own fees and living costs or have access to suitable third party funding.
Funded
Projects where scholarships, studentships, bursaries and other awards are available to help you fund your postgraduate studies.
Funding your PhD
Funding postgraduate research degrees

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/pg-research/apply:
The full process for applying for a postgraduate research degree is outlined below step-by-step:
Applying for a PhD
Before you apply
Please ensure that you meet the entry criteria for your programme of interest and have read through the information about the application process on this page.
PhD and research programme application process
The following guidelines are designed to help you submit a successful PhD research degree application to Exeter.
The information below applies to self-funded PhD, MPhil and Masters by Research applicants, but if you are applying for a funded PhD studentship, please follow the instructions as part of that application.
As part of your application you will need to construct a research proposal.
This will need to be detailed enough to show that you’ve selected a well-defined research question.
You will only be able to pursue a research degree with us if we can offer appropriate supervision.
Your supervisors will provide the necessary support and guidance and so need to have expertise in your chosen research field.
You may join a research team or work with specific members of staff.
You can identify if we offer your PhD research area by:
Browsing or Using our search
These can be found on the research topics and degrees pages of our postgraduate research website.
In addition to references you will also need to supply a research proposal with your application (see supporting documents required for further details).
The research proposal should demonstrate to your potential supervisors that you have identified a piece of research which is well thought out and achievable.
Every research proposal will be different depending on your chosen topic, subject area and type of research degree, but there are some common guidelines.
The perfect research proposal:
Further information on how to write a successful research proposal can be found in our Research proposal guidance brochure .
We strongly recommend that you informally approach your potential (s) with your research proposal before submitting a formal application to study.
This will enable you to find out if you feel they would be able to supervise you and whether they believe your research proposal needs further refinement.
Business School
All applications for PhD subjects within the Business School must include a letter from a member of faculty stating they are willing to supervise you.
Application deadlines
Most subject areas do not have specific deadlines for applications, though the majority of students start in September .
If you are applying for a PhD in the Business School, please note they operate a gathered field approach with applications being considered at three points during a year.
The deadlines for Business School PhD applications are:
Within two working days of receipt.
For research programmes all applications are referred to Academic Departments for a decision.
The Department aims to make a decision promptly depending on supporting documentation required, however, during peak/teaching/vacation periods this may take longer.
We aim to make decisions within 20 working days form receipt of a complete application with all required supporting documents .
The decision will be communicated to you by email.
Where your application is deemed to be incomplete or additional information is required we will contact you.
Please note that if you do not reply, following our third request we will determine that you no longer wish to continue with your application and we will withdraw it.
In order to ensure you submit a complete application please see details in the supporting documents webpage, this will avoid delays in us dealing with your application.
For information about accommodation and deadlines please visit the Accommodation website.
If you have any questions regarding accommodation, please contact the Accommodation Office .
You must hold a firmly accepted offer before you can apply for accommodation.
We recommend that you meet any outstanding conditions by the end of August for programmes beginning September or 4 weeks before the official start date for all other programmes.
However, we know that this is not always possible.
If you cannot meet the conditions by the start of your programme please get in touch with the admissions team, who will advise of your options to either defer your entry, or if permissible, facilitate an adjusted start date.
Supporting documents
Visit our Supporting documents page for information on what to include in your application.
Academic requirements
For all research degrees you will normally be required to have obtained or expect to obtain a first degree equivalent to at least a UK 2:1 Honours degree.
You will need at least a 2:1 or its equivalent in order to be considered by any of the main funding bodies.
For some programmes we also consider evidence of relevant personal, professional and educational experience.
Where an applicant has taken or is taking, more than one academic qualification that meets our entry requirements, the University reserves the right to make an offer on the most recent academic qualification.
Entry requirements for research programmes vary and are dependent on your previous academic qualifications, experience and personal qualities.
Please see individual research topic pages and also contact your Faculty of interest to discuss your suitability.
For information on the equivalence of international qualifications, please see the International Students website .
You can also download a pdf of EU PGT Qualifications Equivalency Guide .
Our decision
We will acknowledge receipt of your application via email within 24 hours.
If you do not receive this email within the stated timeframe please contact us at pgrapplicants@exeter.ac.uk .
We would strongly recommend that you check your email settings before applying to ensure @exeter.ac.uk email addresses are not blocked or sent to your spam or junk mail folders.
If you have not sent all the required supporting documents we need to make a decision, we will email you to provide you with information on the documentation we require.
Please send this information to us as soon as possible so we can make a decision on whether to offer you a place.
Please see supporting documents webpage for information on the minimum documentation we need to make an initial decision.
You should ensure you quote your Exeter Reference Number in all correspondence with us.
If you have not yet completed your academic or English language qualifications, if your academic profile meets our requirements, we will normally be able to make you an offer which is conditional on completing these qualifications and supplying any required references.
You will need to provide evidence that you have met these conditions before your offer can be considered unconditional .
For further information see once you have an offer.
For postgraduate research applications, we aim to make a decision within 20 working days , as your application will need to be reviewed by potential supervisors, depending on the additional information we require (for example, further details of your research proposal).
You will receive either a conditional or unconditional offer from us, or we will inform you that we are unable to offer you a place.
We will notify you of our decision by email (or by letter if you have not provided an email address).
If we are able to make you an offer, your offer letter will be sent via email.
If your application has been unsuccessful you can appeal the decision by emailing the Admissions team .
This must be done within a maximum of three months of receiving your decision.
You need to include details of the programme for which you applied, your Exeter Reference Number, and your grounds for appeal.
You can only appeal against a decision once.
Interviews
The majority of programmes do not require an interview as part of the selection process.
If an interview is required, the purpose and format will be communicated to you clearly in advance so you know what to expect and what role this plays in the overall selection process.
Where programmes include interviews or tests as part of their selection criteria we will make this explicit to you, provide details on how the interviews will be conducted as well as the criteria used to select successful candidates.
Find out more about our interview policy.
We do not normally require additional written work to supplement an application, although in individual cases we may request this and will explain the reasons for such a request.
Can't apply online?
If you are unable to apply online, you can complete a paper application form (pdf) .
You will also need to complete an equal opportunities monitoring form (pdf) and enclose a cover sheet with your supporting documents.
Can I change programmes?
It is possible to change programmes.
If the programme you wish to change to is within the same faculty you will need to provide a new personal statement clearly outlining your reasons.
If the programme is not within the same faculty you will be required to reapply, via the normal route.
Please note if you are a Tier 4 Visa holder there may be other implications.
If you have any queries, please email pre-enrolement@exeter.ac.uk .
Can I change the status of my application to part-time (or full-time)?
You must check with the faculty if they will allow you to change.
If they are happy with this they will contact the Admissions Office, and a new offer letter will be sent to you.
Please be aware that if you are an International student, due to visa regulations, you will not be permitted to study part-time.
Applying for more than one programme
It is possible to apply for more than one programme, however, we would ask you to consider your choices carefully and ensure your personal statement is relevant to your choice(s).
You can hold more than one offer, but you can only accept one.
Apply now
You can apply online using our application portal , where you will be able to submit your research proposal , academic CV and other supporting documents.
Research proposal
Advice and guidance on how to prepare and write your Postgraduate Research Proposal.
Cecilia talks about mermaids as androgynous figures in Victorian art and literature.
Fiona talks about writing a novel and researching cultural diversity in English folklore.
Jamie talks about juggling parenthood with research into politics and circular business
Qinglan Liu talks about applying digital technologies to the circular economy.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/teachertraining:
Teacher Training
Apply PGCE Open Days
Becoming a teacher will lead to an exciting and rewarding career.
Quality teachers are highly sought after, and choosing the right teacher training programme is an important step in ensuring a successful career.
Delivering excellent training
As one of the UK's most respected PGCE providers, find out more about our world-class training provision.
Making a difference
Explore how endlessly rewarding teaching can be - both for you and for generations to come.
How we support you
Find out more about the outstanding support we offer trainees both in academia and in day-to-day life.
Placements
Our links across the South West allow us to offer a wide variety of school-based work placements.
Meet our tutors and learn more about our PGCE programmes.
Applying
Find out more about applying for one of our teacher training courses.
I had two amazing placements and I found being in school allowed me to test all the pedagogy I was taught during my time in university.
For me, being on placement was where I felt most at home.
Being able to build relationships with students and colleagues was so important in helping me start developing into the teacher I aspire to be.
This also gave me so much confidence entering my first ECT year and I was lucky enough to secure a job at one of my placement schools!
Read more from Emma,
Emma,
PGCE Secondary Biology
Primary PGCE
Find out more about PGCE Primary courses on offer
Secondary PGCE
Find out more about PGCE Secondary courses on offer
Explore articles that answer key questions about starting a career in teaching, from course length to choosing an age group.
How Long Does a PGCE Take?
What Age Group Should I Teach?
Becoming A Teacher in Later Life

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/teachertraining/primarypgce:
Our Primary PGCE with QTS programmes offer you the opportunity to train to be a generalist primary teacher focussing either on the Primary 5-11 or Primary 3-7 age range.
Both programmes, which includes significant time in a school setting,  are designed to equip you w ith the knowledge, skills and understanding you need to become a successful primary teacher.
Our 5-11 programme also gives you the opportunity to focus on a particular curriculum area that interests you (see the leadership development section below).
Apply today Open Days
You can select to train to each either the 5-11 or 3-7 age range.
The course is part campus-based and part school-based with most of the campus-based provision in term 1.
See below for training location and course structure by term:
Modules are designed to give you experience of all the curriculum subjects you will be expected to teach for your specified age range (e.g.
english, mathematics, science, art, computing, design & technology, humanities (history, geography & RE), modern languages and PE), as well as providing you with the opportunity to explore wider issues in education.
All our tutors on the primary PGCE are experts in the field, passionate teachers and passionate about teaching.
Our modules have been co-designed by teachers from schools in our partnership.
Our Primary (5-11) programmes also enable you to select a particular curriculum area to focus on during the year to support your development as a future curriculum leader.
You will attend 7 sessions across the autumn term and curriculum areas vary year on year depending on demand but are likely to include Art, English, Humanities, Maths, Science, Inclusion – EAL, and Inclusion – SEND.
Our Primary (3-7) programme includes a leadership development module which focusses on becoming an early years curriculum leader.
I would recommend the Exeter PGCE because you work with well-informed lecturers, especially when you choose a specialism.
They know what they’re talking about and when they have a passion for the subject they pass it onto you easily.
Chilufya
PGCE Primary English graduate

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/teachertraining/secondarypgce:
At the University of Exeter, we offer exceptional teacher training and where trainees get the best of both worlds.
You will have tutors who are experienced teachers and specialists in your chosen subject who are also involved in the cutting edge of national educational research.
“The rich programme of lectures and practical seminars ensures that trainees are well prepared for the realities of becoming an early career teacher, including in managing their workload.”
Ofsted Report 2023
We provide you with a carefully scaffolded programme, so you are ready to teach from your first lesson.
The course is designed to provide engaging and varied opportunities for you to develop the necessary knowledge, understanding and skills.
The course provides you with a master’s level academic qualification (PGCE) and Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) at secondary (11-16) level.
We also offer additional experience of post-16 teaching.
“Trainees are inspired by the exceptionally strong subject knowledge of university staff.
This, along with the long-standing tradition of academic rigour and educational research at Exeter, enables trainees to deepen their knowledge in their subjects very well.”
During the year you will have both an in-school subject specialist mentor and a university based, subject specialist mentor.
Both mentors will work with you as you develop your practice and be available to support you through the year.
You will also have a personal tutor to provide pastoral support.
Our PGCE programme offers you the opportunity to develop your understanding of the opportunities and demands of leadership roles within schools and consider planning your career path.
You will also have the opportunity to reflect on your own leadership in the classroom and how these skills can support pupil learning.
In addition to lecture and optional seminar input, you may elect to undertake a school-based leadership task in your final placement.
During term 1 the campus-based delivery uses in-person and blended approaches which means you attend the St Luke’s campus for two* days each week with independent, directed and scheduled online study for the rest of the week.
During this term you will also have a 4-week school placement, where you will be in school 5 days per week.
* Biology with PE trainees will attend the St Luke's campus for three days each week due to the extra PE input they receive.
Term 2 is predominantly school-based where you return to the same placement school.
You will also return to the St Luke’s campus for 3 individual days of university input.
Towards the end of this term you will change schools to your second placement school.
Term 3 is predominantly school-based in your second placement school with a further 3 days of university input back on campus.
Throughout the year, your school-based and campus-based experience will include 20 days of Intensive Training and Practice (ITAP).
ITAP is delivered via 4 main themes and weaves together a mixture of theory and school-based experiences, designed to strengthen the links between classroom pedagogy, theory and practice.
Centre-based staff use an array of thoughtfully designed tools and assessment systems to connect trainees’ centre-based learning with their practice in schools.
They support mentors to use these to best effect.
Ofsted 2023
If you’re thinking about choosing to study Teacher Training at Exeter then find out from our past trainees what it’s like to live and study here.
They have even provided examples of a typical week on placement so that you can see how they manage social and family commitments around their teaching and studying schedules and get an idea of what a typical week as a trainee teacher might look like for you.
Sophie
Secondary with Modern Foreign Language
My time at university in term one really helped me feel confident coming into school in January.
The tutors are all experts in their fields and having had the opportunity to talk ideas through with them was very valuable indeed.
The classes in term one also gave me lots of ideas for activities and strategies I could use in school and I definitely felt more prepared in January because of this.
I have really enjoyed seeing how the theory and practice link together, and my reflections on my teaching have been stronger as a result.
Even though I have had to move for my placement, which did at first seem daunting, I am not the only one; there is a network of trainees in each county and we catch up regularly.
The Partnership Office were very helpful when it came to finding accommodation.
When placement lists are released, they publish an accommodation list, often with families or people renting a spare room.
Below is an example of what a typical week on placement looked like for me:
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
08:00
Meeting
09:00
Teaching
Meeting with tutor
10:00
Planning for next week
11:00
12:00
Planning
Lunch with friends
13:00
14:00
Meeting with ITEC
15:00
Leave school
Walk with friends
16:00
17:00
18:00
Gym
19:00
Choir
Catch up with friends
20:00
Steve
Secondary with Mathematics
Every day on placement is different and exciting in a special way and I love the practical side of actually teaching.
I embrace the challenge of working with different groups of students all with different abilities and temperaments and bringing out the best in them.
I have worked with an amazing group of teachers who have given me the freedom to trial different teaching strategies, from running practical mathematical activities with the students to developing their skills with respect to mathematical proofs and offering constructive feedback on my teaching.
My second placement has involved me travelling from Exeter to Newton Abbot by train.
The 25-minute commute along the scenic Devon coastline offers me some invaluable time to quickly run through my teaching plan for the day and on the way home some personal time to unwind.
I would definitely recommend studying a PGCE at University of Exeter.
The Exeter Model provides extensive training on campus in Term 1 and before you are thrown in the deep-end of teaching, you get some tasters in schools whilst your confidence is built up.
By the time we are being sent into schools, there is a feeling of: I am ready to do this!
Below is an example of a typical week for me whilst on placement combining teaching, study and time with my family:
8:00 – Prep/meetings
8:00 – Prep/assembly
Family breakfast
Observation of other teachers
Preparing teaching resources
Year 8Y Teaching
Year 9X Teaching
Year 8X Teaching
Year 7Y Teaching
A-Level tutorials
Dads and Toddler’s event
Attending Sunday Service
11:00 – Break
11:00 - Break
11:30 – Year 9X Teaching
11:30 – Year 8X Teaching
11:30 – Year 8Y Teaching
Family time + outings
Rest
12:30 – Year 7Y Teaching
13:30 – Lunch Break
Weekly Development Meeting (WDM)
Reflections and preparation
15:30 – Teaching Staff CPD Session
Commuting
Preparation for week’s
Drinks with friends
Family time
Family time + dinner
Watching a movie
Reflections on day
Reflections on week
Matt
My time on campus in the Autumn term allowed me to go into placement with the confidence that I had the knowledge about teaching to succeed.
A huge benefit of having the first term on campus was that I developed strong friendships with the other trainees which created a strong support network that has allowed us to help each other throughout our placements.
My first placement school was in Teignmouth, a 30-minute drive away and the commute was straightforward.
My second placement school was in Exeter and so I have been able to walk in every day.
Finding accommodation was not difficult as I was happy to live with other students over the year and there are always rooms available to rent in the short term.
If you are considering teaching, training will be tough however, the Exeter PGCE prepares you and supports you in a way that you will always be on the right track.
It is the most rewarding job and developing relationships with students, seeing them progress and knowing you have made a difference is the best feeling in the world.
Below is an example of a typical week during my placement:
Commute
Have a lie-in!
Free period – complete any paperwork, print resources for the day
Teach Year 10
Teach year 8
Free period – complete any paperwork, print resources
Teach year 7
Watch some TV
Year 11 intervention group
Free period
Teach year 10
Break
Winter - Play Hockey
Socialise with friends
Free period – paperwork and planning
Post-match lunch
Summer – go to Dartmoor, the beach or the Quay in Exeter
Lunch
Free period – plan for tomorrow
Go home and relax
Faculty meeting
Professional development session
Camille
Secondary with English
For someone who was rather unfamiliar with the specifics of the national curriculum, the development of literacy and more generally with wider issues in education, Term 1 was the perfect way to help me build that knowledge and understanding of learning processes before going on placement.
The course leaders are extremely supportive and care about the wellbeing of trainees; and the level of expertise of the teaching staff involved in teaching the first term is excellent.
By Term 2 I was excited to finally start putting all of it into practice.
Being on placement is about exploring teaching strategies, forming relationships with pupils and staff, and learning from highly qualified practitioners.
Being on placement is about becoming the teacher you want to be, and this is an exciting adventure!
07:30
Morning OFF
Afternoon:
Paperwork/Evaluations
University tasks
PPA
08:40
Staff briefing
Coffee w/ colleagues
08:50
Tutor/Assembly
Tutor
09:10
Planning, Preparation and Assessment (PPA)
10:10
11:20
BREAK
11:30
Professional Studies
12:30
13:30
LUNCH
14:15
Meeting with Mentor
15:15
PPA/Meeting
16:15
Commute home
House meal + Planning
Evening OFF
Jack
I felt that the first term based at Exeter was a great way to develop a strong foundation of pedagogic knowledge before getting into the classroom.
Schools are fast moving and demanding places, so this gave me the confidence to make decisions and take risks knowing that my work was informed by a good grasp of the literature.
Furthermore, the first term at university gives you the chance to create a support network with other PGCE students for when you need it.
What I have enjoyed most about being on placement it the freedom to observe a variety of teachers and the time to implement change in to your own teaching practice.
Each school I was placed in was very supportive of me and staff were always available to discuss ideas or answer your questions.
For me, the most rewarding part of being a teacher comes in two moments.
In the short term, it is those magical times when a classroom is lit up with “light bulb” moments and you know that you are responsible.
In the longer term, you really value the trust and belief that pupils put in you to teach them, they can become surprisingly clingy!
In this profession you will never know it all and you will always be developing and refining your practice, which keeps it interesting!
Below is an example of how a typical week on placement looked for me:
Whole School Meeting
Tutor Group
Tutor Meeting
Maths Meeting
Weekly Development Meeting with PST
Shopping/Chores
Golf
Personal Time
Visit the beach: e.g.
Kitesurfing at Saunton Sands
Visit other trainees/friends
Preparing / filing Exeter Tools
After School Maths Meeting
Photocopying
Gym/Exercise
Visit Friends
Prep for the week ahead
Dinner
Becky
PGCE Secondary with Modern Foreign Languages
I feel that at Exeter, the time spent at university in Term 1 gave me a lot of ideas to test out when it came to entering schools.
A lot of trainees struggle with coming up with ideas for activities, but we had so many that we were desperate to try out in a real classroom scenario.
The peer teaching and theoretical knowledge that you acquire before entering a placement, allows you to build confidence and have some idea of what you are doing before you are let loose in schools!
The subject tutors are experienced and knowledgeable and will do everything possible to help you at every stage of your training.
The links that the University have with its partner schools are brilliant and it will allow you to have such a range of experiences throughout your training year.
All in all, the course will set you up very well for your future career.
Below is an example of my typical week during placement:
Set up lessons for the morning/ Morning briefing/ Tutor time
Set up lessons for the morning/ House meeting/Assembly
Set up lessons for the morning/Morning briefing/ Tutor time
Set up lessons for the morning/Faculty meeting/Tutor time
Set up lessons for the morning/ Faculty meeting/ Tutor time
Sleep!!
Period 1
Household chores
Period 2
break time
11-11.20- break time
Coffee/ lunch/ Food shopping
Roast dinner and a catch up with family
Period 3
12:20
Period 4
13:20
Period 5
Watch football with fiancé.
Sometimes bus duty/ detention duty faculty meetings
Y11 revision session
Period 6 with A-Level
Plan lessons for Monday
Plan lessons for next day
Marking if necessary
BBQ (weather dependent!)
Prepare for the week ahead
Home
Chill
I really enjoyed the taught part of the course at the university.
It was great to be a student again, to meet lots of other lovely people who shared my love of teaching and to enjoy a university social life after being in a full-time job for so long!
The subject and pedagogy sessions at the university were fun and interesting, although I kept having to remind myself that I wasn’t just there to enjoy being taught by great teachers, but also to reflect on how we were being taught so that we could try out some of the techniques and activities for ourselves once we were in our school placements.
Read more from Joseph
Joseph

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships:
Degree Partnerships
Our Degree Apprenticeships are built upon a strong foundation of partnership, with the employer and University working seamlessly together to ensure a future-ready, motivated workforce.
Flexibility is a key aspect of this partnership, as we offer a range of options from existing ‘open’ Degree Apprenticeship programmes to customised pathways that precisely meet specific needs of employers.
With a reputation for unwavering excellence and reliability, the University of Exeter has a remarkable track record in the successful delivery of Degree Apprenticeships.
Moreover, we are proud to offer the largest Russell Group apprenticeship portfolio.
We work with both UK-based and global organisations to address skill deficits, ensuring that our curriculum aligns with current and future demands of the workforce.
Discover how by partnering with us, you can create a future-ready workforce equipped to shape a dynamic future, transforming your organisation and diversifying your workforce.
Contact us View programmes
We’re redefining Degree Apprenticeships by bringing top-tier academia and organisations together so all learners can emerge future-ready.
Download our brochure
See how we can help you invest in upskilling your people and attract new talent via progression routes.
Discover why a Degree Apprenticeship is right for you.
Level 4, 5 & 6 (Undergraduate) and Level 7 (Postgraduate) Degree Apprenticeships available.
Information about Degree Apprenticeships to help guide you on the best route for your aspiring apprentice.
Our Degree Apprenticeships are built upon a strong foundation of partnership, with organisations and the University working together to effectively address skill deficits, and by ensuring that the curriculum aligns with the current demands of the workforce.
We offer both existing open degree apprenticeship programmes and develop bespoke pathways tailored to specific organisational needs.
By involving learners in the process, their personal and professional development is fostered, making the entire journey a collaborative, transformative experience for all.
Our solutions are future oriented.
Contact us now to find out how we can work together to integrate academic excellence with real-world experiences, so your employees not only excel in theory but thrive in practice.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/programmes:
If you are interested in an apprenticeship standard which is not listed here, please visit our new programmes in development page and get in touch.
Find out more about programmes currently in development
For me, university was always something I wished I could do but as a military wife raising our two daughters, it was never an option.
Having worked in healthcare for over ten years, the apprenticeship gave me access to a route that meant I could balance my home life with work and study.
Rachel
Diagnostic Radiographer Degree Apprenticeship

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/employers:
Degree apprenticeships offer an innovative and cost-effective way of attracting, training and retaining high-calibre employees and graduates to your business.
They give you opportunities to diversify your workforce and improve social mobility by offering a different route into, and progression through, your organisation.
Since 2016, we’ve been working in collaboration with over 400 employers to deliver industry approved programmes that meet specific business needs and fill skills gaps within their sector.
We will be with you every step of the way providing ongoing support and unique opportunities to shape the development of your next-generation employees as well as up-skill your current staff.
We are a Disability Confident organisation and are keen to work with employers who share our values to offer advice for employing apprentices with disabilities and on inclusive practices for recruitment and selection to our programmes.
Download our employer brochure »
Get in touch »
Discover degree apprenticeships
About degree apprenticeships
Find out more about what a degree apprenticeship is.
Benefits of a Degree Apprenticeship
Discover how a degree apprenticeship will benefit your organisation.
Government Levy and funding
Find out how to maximise your apprenticeship levy into cost-effective training.
Our programmes
Combining Russell Group teaching with practical, on-the-job learning our programmes provide maximum relevance for your employees.
Apprentices in action
Want to know what it’s really like studying with us?
Our apprentices share their experiences.
Our partners
Read case studies from some of the 200+ businesses that we are partnered with.
More information
Useful links to websites and videos that might help answer any questions or concerns.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/apprentices:
A degree apprenticeship is a fantastic way of receiving a qualification from the University of Exeter without paying tuition fees and having earned a salary for the duration of your studies.
At the University of Exeter, we offer apprenticeships at Undergraduate and Postgraduate level (levels 6 and 7).
All apprentices must be employed; you must either be applying to a role with an apprenticeship agreed, or must persuade your current employer to support you for the apprenticeship duration.
You are eligible for an apprenticeship if you’re starting your first professional-level job after leaving education, looking for a career change, or looking to upskill in your chosen career path.
Take a look at the pages below for more information about studying on a degree apprenticeship with the University of Exeter and how to apply.
Degree Apprenticeships at the University of Exeter
Benefits of a degree apprenticeship
Discover the benefits of a degree apprenticeship.
What to expect
Find out what a degree apprenticeship is really like.
Find out what degree apprenticeship programmes we offer.
Current vacancies
Find out what current vaccancies are available now.
Discover what it’s really like studying a degree apprenticeship with us.
Information on how to apply for our degree apprenticeships.
More information and useful links
Find the answers to our most frequently asked questions.
About Functional Skills
Functional Skills FAQ

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/research:
Research and Innovation
Research and Innovation at Exeter
As a Russell Group University, we are at the forefront of ground-breaking research that's making a difference across the world.
By breaking down barriers between disciplines, we are tackling the most pressing challenges of our time, from both human and physical perspectives.
Through collaborations with global institutions, policymakers, businesses and organisations, we are harnessing the power of our research to create a sustainable, healthy and socially just future.
Join us.
Connect with our global community of experts to explore exciting new possibilities for joint research, education projects, and transformative business solutions.
REF 2021 is the national assessment of the strength of UK research.
We have increased the proportion of our research which is world-leading by more than 60% and increased the size of our research community by 70%.
Top 30 in the world for our progress towards delivering the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
14 subjects in the global top 100 in the QS World University Rankings 2025
100% of applicable lab spaces have achieved LEAF Green Lab Certification
Exeter Research Institutes
Our Institutes are at the heart of our research, spanning our academic faculties to bring researchers together from across the university to help solve the world's greatest challenges.
Exeter Research Networks
The Exeter Research Networks are interdisciplinary, virtual research groupings.
They bring together University of Exeter researchers and external partners to tackle pressing societal challenges.
Exeter Research Centres
The Exeter Research Centres are interdisciplinary groupings of our researchers who are working with private or public sector organisations to solve global issues.
Research in our Faculties
Our faculties support a broad range of academic activities including elements of all three University strategic goals‌ (environment and sustainability, health and social justice) and act as the champion for one of these.
Our research facilities
Our world class facilities provide our researchers across science and humanities the tools they need to continue their work to solve the world’s major problems around climate, health and social justice.
Interested in working with us?
We power transformative change for businesses by translating our research and education power into real world impact.
Get in touch and work with us to deliver a greener, healthier and fairer future.
Find out more »
Our faculties support a broad range of academic activities, including elements of all three University strategic goals‌ (environment and sustainability, health and social justice) and act as the champion for one of these.
Greener
The climate emergency and ecological crisis is one of the most pressing challenges of our time.
At Exeter, we are home to the UK’s top five most influential climate scientists (Reuters Hot List) within a team of over 1,500 researchers and professionals working across climate change and the environment.
This expertise underpins our research across a range of areas, including green futures, healthier oceans and positive tipping points.
Explore our research and join us in working towards a greener future.
Find out more »
Healthier
Our research is at the cutting-edge of innovation to transform human health and wellbeing.
We partner with healthcare providers, industry and the public to ensure we can quickly translate our research into accessible treatments and care.
Our research covers a range of critical areas, including antimicrobial resistance, child mental health, dementia and diabetes.
Explore our research and join us in creating a healthier future.
Fairer
We're driving change towards a fairer, more socially just and inclusive society.
We're home to world-leading experts in Business, Economics, Law and Social Sciences who are dedicated to understanding and addressing societal challenges.
Our research areas include the circular economy, evidence-based justice, social inequalities and sustainable food systems.
Explore our research and join us in building a fairer future.
At the University of Exeter, we are committed to supporting each other to thrive, be fulfilled and reach our potential.
Our research excellence is underpinned and enhanced by an open, ethical and supportive research culture and environment.
Open Research Exeter
We support the principle of open access to research outputs and, where legally, commercially and ethically appropriate, to the research data of our research community.
Open Research Exeter (ORE) is the University of Exeter’s online repository for storing and providing access to research outputs.
Search ORE now »
Working with business

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/global:
Global Exeter
At the University of Exeter we are a diverse, inclusive, global community with over 25,000 students from 130 countries and 195,000 alumni in 183 countries, providing a world-class student and staff experience.
Our students have opportunities to participate in international experiences and graduate with globally transferable career-ready skills, preparing them to succeed in the rapidly-evolving world
Our strategic vision is to be a truly global institution by extending our presence, reach and impact around the world, with a reputation as an internationally recognised leader in human health and wellbeing, sustainability, and social justice.
We partner with leading universities across the globe aligned with our mission to tackle global challenges and deliver transformative impact - leading the way to a greener, healthier and fairer future.
Global Partnerships
We partner with leading universities with shared values, combining our research expertise to tackle global challenges and creating new educational opportunities.
Worldwide Alumni community
Our alumni and friends and have helped Exeter become one of the very best universities in the world.
Study with us
We provide a world-leading student experience and together we are challenging and inspiring the next generation of global citizens with the skills they will need for the future.
We offer world-class education and research with outstanding student satisfaction in one of the most beautiful locations in the UK.
We’re committed to working with our students to make the world greener, healthier, and fairer.
Contact our International Student Recruitment team »
Our dynamic and innovative research fosters new discoveries, inspires creativity and brings people together to solve the challenges of today and tomorrow, making the world greener, healthier and fairer.
We are home to the UK’s top five most influential climate scientists (Reuters Hot List) within a team of over 1,500 researchers and professionals working across climate change and the environment.
My research focuses on threats to marine ecosystems and species and on finding the means to protect them.
My team provided the scientific underpinning for the world’s first network of high seas protected areas in the north Atlantic, and for a new ocean protection target – 30% by 2030 – adopted as a global goal in 2022.
I lead the Convex Seascape Survey, a multinational effort to understand and sustain the carbon capturing capacity of the world’s coastal seas.
I was chief scientific advisor for the BBC’s Blue Planet II and advise Blue Marine Foundation and the Maldives Coral Institute.
Profile page
Fiona Charnley is Professor of Circular Innovation in the Business School at the University of Exeter.
She is Co-Director of the UKRI National Interdisciplinary Circular Economy Hub, with the aim to develop interdisciplinary capability and accelerate the transition towards a UK circular economy.
She leads multiple government and industry-funded research projects covering topics such as the use of digital technology to inform decisions surrounding the implementation of circular economy strategies and the development and application of self-healing materials to enable product life extension.
Fiona has an extensive publication track record across the areas of design, manufacture and business modelling for a Circular Economy.
Additionally, she is editor of the ‘Handbook of the Circular Economy’ published last year.
She has extensive experience of working with organisations from across sectors to identify new approaches to design, innovation, manufacture and business modelling to transform resource use and value creation.
Professor William Gaze is a Professor of Microbiology at The European Centre for Environment and Human Health, part of the University of Exeter Medical School.
He leads a large research group focusing on the environmental dimension of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) with recent and current funding of £4M with over 20 group members.
His group researches the evolution of resistance in complex microbial communities found in human, animal and environmental microbiomes.
They also study the dissemination of AMR at a landscape scale and human exposure and transmission in aquatic environments.
Professor Gaze’s expertise is recognised globally, as evidenced by his numerous invited presentations across Europe, North America, South America, Asia, and Africa over the past few years.
He gives particular focus to interactions with stakeholders from government, regulators, and industry through two NERC Knowledge Exchange Fellowships awarded to him in 2019 and 2021.
He advises the United Nations, World Health Organisation, UK, and overseas governments on AMR.
Professor Gaze also plays a significant role in academic leadership.
He is a member of the University Senate, departmental leadership team, and the GW4 AMR Alliance Steering Committee.
He is a co-lead of the Exeter Microbes & Society network of over 300 researchers across all three faculties.
Helen is an expert in children's mental health and focuses on better understanding why mental health problems develop.
She is particularly interested in the development of anxiety in children and has conducted longitudinal research exploring how factors present in the child and in their environment early in life might affect their risk for anxiety problems into middle childhood and beyond.
Helen's most recent work focuses on the role of adventurous play in preventing mental health problems in children.
This research is funded by a prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship and brings together the fields of psychology, public health and education.
Stefano Pascucci is a social scientist interested in sustainability and circular economy as a context to develop evidence-based theories and impacts for societal change.
He is particularly focused on understanding the role of businesses, communities and other forms of organizing to ensure transitions into a more fair and sustainable society.
His research includes food community organising, agribusiness management, and regenerative agriculture.
He has published in various academic journals, amongst others, in the Organization Studies, Academy of Management Perspectives, Journal of Business Venturing, Supply Chain Management, and Journal of Business Ethics.
Rebecca Helm is Professor of Law and Empirical Legal Studies, and a UK Research and Innovation Fellow.
She is recognised as one of the leading experts in the UK and internationally in applying behavioural science to the legal system, most notably in the area of guilty plea decision-making.
She founded and directs the Evidence-Based Justice Lab, whose miscarriages of justice registry has been utilised by hundreds of thousands of visitors from around the world since its formation in 2021.
Her research has been published in leading outlets in both law and psychology, and has been widely cited internationally by academics and courts, and she has recently published a monograph, How Juries Work, with Oxford University Press.
She is currently working on a UKRI-funded project examining testimony evaluation, as well as collaborative projects focused on examining the Post Office Scandal (with Richard Moorhead, Karen Nokes, and Sally Day), developing more effective models of evidence synthesis and evaluation (with Jon Williamson and Trish Greenhalgh), and utilising compulational modelling techniques to examine guilty plea decision-making (with Tina Zottoli, Vanessa Edkins, and Mike Bixter).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/departments:
Our departments
Faculty of Environment, Science and Economy
Faculty of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences
Faculty of Health and Life Sciences
Visit the Professional Services website.
Digital Capability
Education and Academic Services
External Engagement and Global
Finance, Infrastructure and Commercial Services
Please note that Financial Operations and Procurement is now part of PS Connect.
Human Resources, Culture and Assurance
A full list of all our services can be found on our employment webpages .
Please note that Payroll, Employee Services and Immigration and Recruitment (perm & temporary) (Talent Management) is now part of PS Connect.
IT Services
Please note that IT Service Desk is now part of PS Connect.
Office of Senior Vice-President and Registrar & Secretary
PS Connect
Research Division

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about:
At the University of Exeter we combine teaching excellence and high levels of student satisfaction with world class research at our campuses in Exeter and Cornwall.
We are a member of the Russell Group of leading research-intensive universities.
Our success is built on a strong partnership with our students and a clear focus on high performance.
» Read more about the University of Exeter
Ranked 169th the QS World University Rankings 2025
Our world-leading research is creating solutions for a Green Future
Find out more about the University including our history, key facts and figures, awards and league table success, Honorary graduates and more.
Meet our Senior Management Team and learn how the University is governed and makes decisions.
Our Strategy establishes how we will work towards achieving our vision over the next decade and lays the foundation for our future success which will take us to our 100th anniversary in 2055.
The University of Exeter is home to the UK’s top five most influential climate scientists - the only UK climate scientists to secure places in the global top 21 - according to the prestigious new Reuters Hot List.
Find out about the economic impact generated by the University in the 2020/21 academic and financial year (the latest year for which data was available) across a number of geographic regions.
Using our site | Accessibility | Freedom of Information | Data Protection | Copyright & disclaimer | Privacy & cookies | Cookie settings
Copyright University of Exeter .
All rights reserved.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/governance:
On this site you can find details about the University's governance structure and decision-making processes.
Council is the University’s governing body and Senate its senior academic forum.
Responsibility for the management of the University and the delivery of its corporate strategy rests with the University Executive Board , chaired by the Vice-Chancellor, and its delegated committees .
How the University is managed »
How the University is governed »

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/vision/about:
Our purpose is to use the power of our education and research to create a sustainable, healthy and socially just future.
» Visit the Strategy 2030 website to find out more .
A number of strategies underpin and support Strategy 2030.
These supporting strategies outline how we will build on our strong interdisciplinary culture to:
Our sovereign strategies lead and direct our core activities to achieve our vision for the University.
The Education Strategy details how we will deliver an internationally exceptional educational experience for our students and enable them to make a positive difference in the world.
We will deliver this through the provision of research-inspired learning, the development of employability, empowering and engaging learners, and multi-disciplinary learning.
The Success for All programme plays an important role in delivering key elements of the strategy to build an inclusive educational environment.
Global Exeter 2030: Our Place in the World delivers the global ambitions of Strategy 2030.
It lays out Exeter’s vision to be a truly global institution by extending our presence, reach and impact around the world.
It seeks to realise Exeter’s ambitions to be an internationally recognised leader in human health and wellbeing, sustainability, and social justice.
It articulates our aim to grow and strengthen mutually beneficial partnerships aligned with our mission to make the world greener, healthier and fairer; our ambition to diversify our international student community; and our commitment to providing a collaborative, inclusive and world-class staff and student experience.
Our research advances knowledge, discoveries and solutions to respond to local, national and global social, economic and environmental challenges.
Entering the new decade, our Research and Impact Strategy‌ ‌, will bring together people to provide sustainable solutions to todays and tomorrow’s challenges.
This will be underpinned and enhanced by our research culture which is open, inclusive, inspiring and ethical.
Our enabling strategies focus on creating the capability, scale, organisational excellence, facilities, resources and reputation that are critical for success.
The Arts and Culture Strategy aims to: raise the profile of creative activity at the University of Exeter; strengthen creative networks and practice; and bring more people into a shared and open creative community.
We support staff and students across the four campuses, as well as build partnerships and broker new collaborations with regional cultural practitioners and organisations.
Our work directly supports the aims of the University’s sovereign strategies and champions the importance of interdisciplinarity in innovation and creativity.
To find out more about our programmes and resources, go to www.artsandcultureexeter.co.uk .
The University seeks to build exceptional partnerships through our Business Engagement Strategy.
We work collaboratively with industry on research and development, enable organisations to recruit and train talented staff, and drive a thriving innovation eco-system in the South West.
We will be the most accessible and connected university destination for any user.
Find out more .
Through our International Student Experience strategy we are working to promote an inclusive and welcoming community for our international students, which respects their unique backgrounds, perspectives and needs.
By working in partnership with our students, we aim to create and environment where students can grown and thrive, supported by excellent services.
Our People Strategy seeks to support the University by attracting, developing and retaining a talented and diverse workforce from around the globe.
In light of Strategy 2030, our People Strategy is being refreshed to ensure it supports the strategic priorities over the coming years.
The Regional Skills Strategy is being produced in recognition of the important role that the University plays in the local economies of Devon and Cornwall.
The strategy will include the University’s approach to widening participation in the region, degree apprenticeships to support strategically important sectors, graduate employability opportunities in the region, student entrepreneurship and continuing professional development.
Sustainability means meeting our own needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
In addition to taking care of our natural resources, we also need to embrace environmental and biodiversity considerations at the heart of our strategy.
Further to the Environment and Climate Emergency Declaration in 2019; the University has a dedicated team to address the agenda and a range of policies in place and a programmed plan of action to deliver environmental net gain and carbon net zero.
Our Environment and Climate Emergency Policy Statement outlines the University’s environmental objectives, and we are committed to aligning our agenda to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and transparently benchmarking our progress towards our goals through our Sustainability agenda.
Our Technical Strategy aims to provide expertise, equipment, facilities and spaces that optimise the power of our education and research, through adaptable and sustainable technical capability and capacity.
We will do this through leading on managing and developing innovative technical environments which are adaptive to digital and technical growth, through future proofed solutions for growth and maintenance of sustainable facilities and equipment that deliver for research and education and by nurturing our communities of experts to thrive through teaching and skills development.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/community/uni:
Rory Cunningham is the Community Liaison Manager for the University, promoting positive relationships between student residents and permanent residents living in communities surrounding the Streatham and St Luke’s campuses.
This role evolved from ongoing partnership work of the University, Exeter City Council, Devon and Cornwall Police and Exeter's Students' Guild.
Tel 01392 723721
To raise queries with our Community Engagement Team (non emergency) Phone 01392 723721 Email communityengagement@ exeter.ac.uk
The University's Estate Patrol provides a 24 hour service on campus.
They deal with matters of security and safety and can be called to report or discuss off-campus incidents involving students.
Estate Patrol can be contacted at any time on 01392 263999.
You can find out more information on the Security webpages .
Community Engagement Officers
We understand that social differences between student residents and local residents can sometimes cause tension.
We believe that such tensions can be resolved when there are more opportunities for communication and meaningful engagement.
The University's Community Liaison Manager works to enhance relationships with local communities.
This section of the website describes some of the ways our Community Engagement Team support students to integrate positively when living in private accommodation.
We work in close partnership with the City Council, the Police, Resident Associations and other community groups, to promote positive engagement.
We also invest in a series of projects and campaigns, like the glass-caddy scheme and the end-of-year waste collection scheme 'Students on the Move', as well as a range of ongoing initiatives like community gardening, litter-picking and 'meet your neighbour' events.
If you have any questions about the work we do or would like to raise a concern that we can explore, please contact the team at any time, please call or email communityengagement@exeter.ac.uk
It's an exciting time to be moving into the community and we would like to remind you to be mindful of noise levels, as you may have neighbours with young families, early morning work commitments or exams.
If arranging a gathering, it is important to socialise safely and considerately by consulting the noise section of the Community Guide (pages 26-29) .
Noise in the street can carry and have a big impact on all our community.
Consider those who need to sleep, particularly during the week.
Rubbish bags left outside can attract vermin who will attack bags and spread waste across the streets, particularly if there is food waste inside.
Exeter City Council will be rolling out food bins for all households this year with information on how to dispose your food waste.
For further info on waste disposal see Community Issues or Exeter City Council's page.
You can check the Exeter City Council website for collection dates for your address and download the bin calendar.
Talk to our team about how to keep you and your belongings safe and get your valuables registered to deter theft.
This is a great way to ensure that your items can be tracked and found more easily, should they ever be stolen.
This service is suitable for small valuables (e.g.
mobile phones, laptops) and bicycles.
Dates we'll be in the Forum:
Looking for a property to live in next year?
Finding somewhere to live in the city can be tricky.
You can find lots of information and resources through the University's Move Smart Campaign and our other pages here: Community- Students' Information , Accommodation Team , Student's Guild .
There are lots of support teams ready to help you find accommodation.
For those interested in volunteering there are loads of options both on campus and in the city that you can join: Community issues .
For more information on pop-up volunteering opportunities or community events, contact communityengagement@exeter.ac.uk
The Community Engagement Team encourage the integration of students as active citizens and facilitate the work of the Community Liaison Officer.
Community Engagement Officers work closely with the Students’ Guild, local Police and City Council to support fellow students living off-campus.
There are three Community Engagement Officer teams.
The Exeter East, West and Central Teams provide a supportive presence to students living across the wards of St James, St David's, Pennsylvania, Newtown and Polsloe.
Community Engagement Officers conduct 'walkabouts' in their area, signpost students with community queries, attend community meetings and develop termly community projects.
They also facilitate ongoing campaigns and initiatives, including the end of term 3, Students On The Move refuse removal scheme.
They can help to security-mark your valuables, stencil your property number onto your bin and they also run a glass caddying scheme at the end of each term to help collect and recycle your glass.
Community Engagement Officers have access to the Community fund, financing projects that bring students and permanent residents together.
Local Community Engagement Officers wear branded Community Engagement Officer jackets, hoodies and polo shirts and are always happy to chat.
To contact directly please email communityengagement@exeter.ac.uk .
The Community Engagement scheme has been developed and supported by the University, Exeter Community Safety Partnership, and Devon and Cornwall Constabulary.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/term-dates:
Term dates
View our official term dates for current and upcoming academic years at the University of Exeter, including start and end dates for each term.
Note: The dates given below are for standard University terms: however, for some programmes the dates of required attendance may vary.
Term dates for alternative programmes are listed underneath.
Please note that no teaching takes place on bank holidays.
New students should also be aware that Welcome Week (otherwise known as Freshers' Week) is usually the week immediately before the start of term.
Full details can be found on the New Students website .
2024-25
Monday 23 September - Friday 13 December
Monday 6 January - Friday 28 March
Monday 28 April - Friday 13 June
2025-26
Monday 22 September – Friday 12 December
Monday 5 January – Friday 27 March
Monday 27 April – Friday 12 June
2026-27
Monday 21 September – Friday 11 December
Monday 4 January – Friday 26 March
Monday 26 April – Friday 11 June
Term dates for January start programmes
Term dates for Online study
Term dates for PGCE courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/alumnisupporters:
Welcome to your alumni community!
Help support our work with a donation
Read alumni study abroad memories and add your own
Read the latest alumni magazine
Watch our video to see how we help the brightest sporting stars own the spotlight
Help us create a greener, healthier, and fairer world by making a donation to our research or student support.
» Learn more about how you can help
Browse through written and video profiles to learn from alumni expertise and discover more about career paths and industries.
» View the profiles
Receive newsletters and event invites direct to your inbox.
» Update your details

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/prospective:
It’s a very supportive place where you’ll receive any training you need.
Emma - Education Support Administrator
My favourite thing about the Uni has to be the variety of work available.
Harrison - Communications and Marketing Assistant
It’s a great place to work.
I feel very proud to be a part of the Exeter team.
Jack, Education Support Assistant
I’ve worked at the University for a long time, with some brilliant people.
The team make coming to work every day really enjoyable.
Pam - Programme Administrator
Our Professional Services teams ensure our students have the best experience possible and enable our academics to carry out research that makes a difference to the world.
We've launched our Strategy 2030 , it is a really exciting time of change and opportunity at the University.
Why not join us on our journey?
make the University of Exeter an inspiring and fulfilling place to work.
Why join our team?
Hear from current members of staff on why they love working here at the University of Exeter.
Together, let’s create the possible.
Live and work in the most beautiful part of the UK.
» Find out more about living in the South West
The University offers a wide range of excellent facilities and benefits to staff.
» Read more

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/contact:
Please call the main switchboard on +44 (0) 1392 661000
If you specifically require the Penryn Campus, the main reception number is +44 (0) 1326 370400.
You can contact an academic faculty, department or professional service by e-mail or phone.
Contact details are available on their individual sites.
If you have complaints about email which is being sent to you from a University of Exeter email account you should contact our abuse address .
*Calling us on an 0300 number will cost you the same as a call to a standard landline number starting with 01 and 02.
If you have an inclusive call package for calling landline numbers on your mobile or landline telephone the call would simply be reduced from your available talk minutes.
Otherwise your call will be charged at the same rate as calling a standard national rate number.
The University's reception handles general enquiries and visitors to the University.
The address for the reception is:
University of Exeter Reception Stocker Road Exeter EX4 4PY
Telephone: +44 (0) 1392 661000
Access information for the main reception is available on the AccessAble website .
General mail for the University should be addressed to:
The University of Exeter Mail Room, The Old Library Prince of Wales Road Exeter, Devon UK EX4 4SB
Phone: 0300 555 0444 (UK callers) +44 1392 722524 (EU/International callers) Email: exeterao@exeter.ac.uk Visit the Accommodation website
Cornwall Accommodation Office Phone: +44 (0) 1326 253639 Email: accommodation@fxplus.ac.uk Visit the Penryn Campus Accommodation website
Phone: 01392 72 5050 Web: www.exeter.ac.uk/itservicedesk
Tel: 01326 213822 Email: servicedesk@fxplus.ac.uk Web: https://fxplus.ac.uk/it-services/service-information
Phone +44 (0) 1392 722062 / 262307 / 722405 Email pressoffice@exeter.ac.uk
Phone +44 (0) 1392 724493 Email: careers@exeter.ac.uk
Phone +44 (0) 300 555 0214 Fax +44 (0) 1392 723512 Email: eventexeter@exeter.ac.uk Web: www.exeter.ac.uk/eventexeter
Phone +44 (0) 1392 723141 Fax +44 (0) 1392 723187 Email: alumni@exeter.ac.uk
We welcome questions or comments on any matter regarding our website.
These comments should be sent to the Web Editor .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/socialmedia:
Welcome to the University of Exeter’s social media hub.
This is where you can explore and connect with our official social media accounts and see a curated selection of content from across our accounts.
You’ll also find our social media house rules, policies and how to connect with the social media team.
The University of Exeter has an official Facebook page, plus an official students' Facebook page.
Many of our departments, services and student societies maintain Facebook pages too where you can 'Like' the page and find out news and updates, give feedback and talk to others.
This page does not list individual student or staff accounts.
The University of Exeter maintains an Instagram feed of photography taken around our campuses.
Visit the University of Exeter on Instagram in Exeter and Cornwall .
We have a student-run account that shows what life is like at the University of Exeter .
We also have a student account which is run by the University of Exeter for our current students .
You can see the work of our amazing Grounds Team too.
You can keep up-to-date with news from the University via our news account.
The University of Exeter has an official TikTok page which provides an insight into life at university and the city.
Watch all our videos on the University of Exeter YouTube channel .
Follow us on Threads and Bluesky for news, information and updates.
Connect with the University of Exeter on Chinese social media.
Scan the QR code to follow us or search for “ExeterUni” in public accounts.
Scan the QR code to follow us on Weibo (埃克塞特大学官博)
Scan the QR code to follow us on Rednote (小红书)
We love hearing from you and our social media channels offer an opportunity for us to inform you of anything that is going on, and help you with any queries.
We will try to join the conversation wherever possible, but we can't reply to all comments and queries on social media.
Please contact us via our website www.exeter.ac.uk/enquiry if you have any urgent queries.
We cannot accept responsibility for the content of any comments on our channels.
We won't remove or hide your comment just because we don't like it, but we do have a few simple rules that we'll apply out of respect for others visiting our social media channels, or who might be mentioned on our channels.
Full details of the University's social media policy can be found at www.exeter.ac.uk/staff/employment/hrpoliciesatoz/socialmedia/
If you need any help or support with social media, please contact the team via socialmedia@exeter.ac.uk .
We’re launching a new resources hub for staff at Exeter who manage social media accounts as part of their role.
You’ll find best practice guides, training videos, social media articles and more when the new hub launches.
Keep an eye on the weekly staff newsletter for further information.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/regionalengagement:
Regional Engagement
Progress happens when we work together.
We put progress at the heart of everything we do - it’s the driving force that connects every relationship we have as a university.
In focus
The University of Exeter is in the process of establishing three Civic University Agreements in Exeter, Cornwall and Devon & Torbay.
Find out more about what we will be doing with our regional partners.
Our work in the region covers many themes and topics.
Find out a little more about how we are engaging with our region to help drive innovation and tackle societies intractable problems.
Find out how we work with enterprises of all size in the region and discover who at the University YOUR organisation or enterprise needs to speak to.
Latest news
Business in your region
The University of Exeter can develop solutions for businesses and organisations of all shapes and sizes from start-ups and SMEs to multi-national organisations.
Our Business Engagement Brochure
This brochure highlights the opportunities available to organisations who want to engage and collaborate with the University of Exeter.
When you partner with us, your organisation becomes equipped with the knowledge, skills, talent, and insight to drive transformative innovation in your organisation.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/departments/campusservices/eatandshop:
Clothing, accessories & gifts available to order online
We have made some great achievements so far!
Order vouchers to spend in our outlets
iSCA Eats!
Eat in or take out....
Check out the recipes from our wonderful culinary team
We're proud to have achieved a Fairtrade Universities and Colleges Award
‌
‌ ‌Tag us to win food, drinks and vouchers #eatshopexeter
Share your thoughts via our feedback page or csmarketing@exeter.ac.uk.
Sign up to our newsletter to hear about the tempting Eat & Shop special offers and deals on campus.
You can unsubscribe at any time - read our Eat & Shop Privacy Policy for more details.
As the University Catering and Retail Services Team, we take our sustainability responsibilities very seriously.
Find out more about our environmental commitments .
Read the University Food Allergy Disclaimer here.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/cornwall:
Cornwall campuses
At the University of Exeter, Cornwall you will be part of a vibrant community where environmental consciousness and sustainability are woven into every aspect of our courses and culture.
Only minutes from UNESCO World Heritage countryside and some of Cornwall’s most idyllic beaches, our Penryn campus is renowned not only for satisfaction in student rankings, but also for its vibrant cultural scene.
From live music to festivals, our community thrives on activities that enrich student life, all bolstered by dedicated student services to help you succeed.
Transferrable skills, immersive fieldwork experiences, and opportunities for industry collaboration are just some of the ways we equip you for future-focused career paths.
But your academic journey is not simply about gaining expertise.
It’s about becoming a global citizen; an agent of change who is equipped to address issues such as the climate emergency, and social injustice and inequalities.
Our small size means we are able to create an environment where you will have ample opportunity to contribute, ask questions and get to know your tutors.
Our students cherish deeply personal experiences that are not only intellectually challenging but also great fun.
Cornwall is a place where friendships and connections blossom that last well beyond graduation.
Learn more about studying here.
Top 30 in the world for our progress towards delivering the UN SDGs in the 2025 THE Impact Rankings
The University of Exeter has been recognised for our progress towards delivering Clean Water and Sanitation, Responsible Consumption and Production, Zero Hunger, Climate Action, and Life Below Water.
Read more about our work.
"It's amazing what you can do in just 20 years!"
The University of Exeter, Cornwall is celebrating its 20th anniversary in 2024.
Since 2004 we've been empowering talented students to reach their potential; conducting world-leading research; and collaborating with businesses to enhance environmental and social sustainability locally, nationally and globally.
Information for current students
Information for current staff

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/events:
Events
From research conferences and lectures to alumni reunions and film viewings, our constantly evolving events schedule has something for everybody.
Please see the following pages for further information on events within the University community.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/departments/inclusion:
Welcome to the equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) website for staff and students at the University of Exeter.
Here you can find information about race , gender , faith and worldview , sexual orientation and disability inclusion, and other EDI initiatives.
Report an incident
EDI priorities
2024-25 EDI calendar
Dignity and Respect

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/students:
ASK ME
Contact the Student Information Desk for enquiries relating to University support and services
HUB & INFO POINTS
Your Hub/Info Point for questions about academic study
SafeZone is a free app that provides help while you're on campus, if you need it.
Our Wellbeing team - here for you
Your voice makes a difference
See a full A to Z of support and services for current students, or use our 'Where to get help' downloadable PDF .
Support and services
Campus life
Your studies

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/departments/library:
The Special Collections and Bill Douglas Cinema Museum have unique collections of archives, rare books, film memorabilia and objects.
Use these Guides to find out all about the Library services, facilities and resources.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/students/myexeter:
MyExeter
Download on the iOS App Store Download on the Google Play Store
If you don't have a smartphone you can use the MyExeter web app .
Here are some of the features of MyExeter.
You'll notice that the app is continuously being improved and updated based on insight and feedback:
For support with using MyExeter, contact the IT Helpdesk by phone (01392 725050) or by raising an incident .
If you're on campus, visit the Digital Hub for face-to-face support in Exeter or Cornwall .
Alternatively, book a 1:1 online support session with a member of the team.
You may also provide feedback or report issues via the feedback form found within the MyExeter app, or using the iPads located at the Info Points on each campus.
Why have you built a new app?
We are building a new app based on insight from students around how to improve their student experience at UoE.
We want to reduce the number of places where you can get information at the University, so MyExeter is now the one essential tool to navigating your life at UoE.
Our goal, in line with the University's Strategy, is to deliver you a unique, personalised digital experience.
Why should I use MyExeter?
The MyExeter app is now an essential tool to your life at University.
Use it to view your class timetable, find and book study spaces on your campus, discover the latest University updates and events and much more.
You'll notice the app being updated and improved regularly.
We're continuously gathering insight and feedback to ensure the app is valuable to you in your life at UoE.
You can help to make it even better by providing feedback in the feedback form within the app.
How do I leave feedback on the app?
We'd love to hear your feedback and ideas, whether its small improvements or ideas for big new features!
Let us know by completing the form within the app: Within the app, go to the 'Account' tab and select 'Leave feedback' to complete the form.
We would also like to invite all students to register your interest in taking part in user testing and feedback sessions to help improve our services.
Complete this form to register .
I have an idea for a feature, who can I share it with?
Share your idea with us by leaving feedback in the 'Account' section of the app.
See 'How do I leave feedback on the app?' for more info on how to do this.
Is my information safe on MyExeter?
Your data is safe with us.
The app uses data from your University records to deliver personalised services based on your discipline, campus, or year of study.
For more detailed information please visit 'Terms of Use’ in the Account section of the app menu.
Do I need to pay for the app?
No, the app and all of its features are free to all students.
How do I access MyExeter?
Can I use the app on mobile and desktop?
The MyExeter app works best on a mobile device.
Download MyExeter for free from the Apple App Store or Google Play Store .
This web app isn't as developed as the app that you will find on the app stores, but it has all the essential features Students will need.
What is the Check-In feature?
Check-in is the feature within the MyExeter app that is used to record attendance of required students.
If this applies to you, you will see a green 'check-in' button in the app at the time of the teaching session you are required to check-in to.
If you are not required to register your attendance in classes, you will not see the green Check-in button.
Learn more about how to record your attendance in MyExeter.
If you're on campus, visit the Digital Hub for face-to-face support in Exeter or Cornwall.
I’m a University of Exeter colleague, can I access MyExeter?
Right now MyExeter is only designed for UoE Students.
University colleagues do have access to MyExeter, however the content isn't yet tailored for staff.
If you’re a University of Exeter colleague and would like to get involved with research into creating a staff profile in MyExeter, sign up here .
If you have any questions about MyExeter, attend our fortnightly Digital Demo sessions to learn more & ask us anything.
Release notes provide important updates about the latest improvements, bug fixes, and new features in MyExeter.
Check here to help you stay informed about changes that enhance performance, resolve issues, and improve your overall experience.
Release notes
The MyExeter accessibility statement applies to the MyExeter web application - accessed using a browser - and the mobile application - downloadable from the App and Play Stores.
Read the MyExeter accessibility statement

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/students/finance/makeapayment:
We provide a choice of easy, safe and secure online payment options which a student (or someone on their behalf) can use to pay any fee on their student account to the University.
This could be a deposit, tuition or accommodation fees.
This page provides information and links to these different online payment methods as well as Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's).
The University of Exeter has partnered with Flywire and Convera to accept payments from UK and international students worldwide.
The below links to our online portals will guide you through the process of payment.
You will be offered different payment methods depending on where the person making the payment is located and the avaliable currency options.
Click here to make a payment with Flywire >
Please note: You cannot pay by American Express through Flywire if your card is issued in the UK.
American Express is available through Flywire for certain other countries.
The University of Exeter have partnered with Flywire, experts in international education payments, to streamline the international payment process and allow students to benefit from:
Paying with Flywire gives you a choice when making payment with a credit or debit card, or by bank transfer.
Using Flywire will allow you to securely make your payment of fees in your local currency or GBP (£).
When making your payment, enter the country you are paying from and the amount you wish to pay.
You will be shown the avaliable payment methods and rates for your country.
If you have a debit or credit card issued outside of the UK and choose to pay in GBP,  an additional charge will be applied of 3%.
If you chose to pay in your local currency you will be given a choice of payment methods and the associated costs will be displayed.
If you encounter an issue when making a payment with Flywire, please see their support pages for frequently asked questions and contact options .
Click here to make a payment with Convera >
Convera is a flexible payment method and allows you the option to pay in your local currency with a credit/ debit card or bank transfer.
Why choose Convera:
*For more information regarding our Price Promise Guarantee, please visit this link: Convera price promise guarantee
Important: Online courses information
We cannot create an automated payment plan for online courses.
Courses should be paid in full before the course begins.
Please chose to pay with a credit/ debit card or bank transfer with Flywire or Convera.
You can use your credit or debit card to pay your tuition fees in instalments, similar to a direct debit.
Payments are taken from your credit or debit card automatically, so once the payment plan has been created, manual payments are not required .
We are only able to accept Visa and Mastercard for automated payments.
There are different payment plans available depending on your level of study and start date.
For an overview of the plans available, please see our Paying your tuition fees in automated instalments guide .
Once you have successfully completed all the steps within the link above, your payment plan will be reviewed and a confirmation emails will be sent to the card holder to confirm the amounts and due dates.
The payment plan will reflect on the students online statement shortly after the confirmation email has been sent.
Payments will automatically be attempted on the due dates advised.
Should a payment fail (for example, insufficient funds) a second automated payment attempt will be made five days later.
Should this second payment fail, we ask you make a one-off payment to bring the instalment plan up to date.
Further instructions on how to do this will be sent via email to the card holder.
What information do I require to make a payment?
You will need your (the student’s/applicant’s) nine digit Exeter student number and your (the student’s/applicant's) date of birth.
Where can I find my Exeter student number?
You can find your nine digit Exeter student number at the top of most correspondence from the University and on your Unicard.
Please note, this number is different to your UCAS number, e.g.:
Your Name: XXXXXXX Exeter student number: XXXXXXXXX UCAS Personal ID:XXXXXXXXX Programme name: XXXXXXXXXXXX
Example Undergraduate letter
Example Postgraduate letter
Who can make a payment?
Anyone can make a payment, for example: student, parent, other family member, friend, sponsor, agent on behalf of the student.
They will need your (the student’s/applicant’s) full name, nine digit Exeter student number and date of birth when making the payment.
What can I pay for?
Using our listed payment methods, you can make payments for:
How do I pay my tuition fee deposit?
You can use all of our available payment options to pay your deposit.
For all options, you will need your (the student's) nine digit Exeter student number and date of birth in order to do this.
For each option, you will be asked to enter what you are paying, for example, Tuition Fee Deposit.
This will ensure that your payment is placed on your account correctly.
Can I pay my fees in instalments?
Yes, you can pay your Tuition fees in instalments with different payment plans available.
Details, including payment dates, are available in our How to pay tuition fees in instalments guide.
Download our Automated payment: step by step instructions which will show you how to set up your payment plan via our online card payment portal .
How do I cancel a Recurring Card Payment (RCP)?
If you need to cancel an automated payment plan set up via a Recurring Card Payment, please raise an enquiry through SID, as the Accounts Receivable Team will need to cancel the plan.
How do I know if the University has received my payment?
You can check to see if a payment has been received by logging into your Online Student Statement and checking the balance.
Download our step-by-step instructions (pdf) Online Student Statement guide , which will show you how to view and navigate your student statement.
Payments will take different lengths of time to reflect on your online statement depending on the payment method:
If your online payment has been unsuccessful please contact your bank or credit card provider as the University is not able to determine the reasons for payments being unsuccessful or declined.
If your payment does not show after 10 working days, then we would advise that you contact SID and provide them with the payment details, quoting your nine digit Exeter student number and name.
We can then investigate the transaction.
I have received an e-mail and would like to update my Credit/Debit card details
If you have received an e-mail as your credit/debit card has now expired, or wish to change to a different card, please visit our dedicated 'Card update' webpage and follow the instructions to update your credit/debit card.
Banking regulations and International Sanctions
The University must adhere to banking regulations in relation to transactions with countries subject to sanctions as listed by the United Nations, the European Union, the United Kingdom and the United States (OFAC).
Consequently, if you are from a sensitive sanctioned country as defined by the bodies listed, we can only accept payments from a UK bank account.
Credit Card, cheque, bank drafts and bank transfers originating from a sensitive sanctioned country will not be accepted.
How long will it take for a payment made via Flywire to show on my account?
Once Flywire have received your payment, it will typically take 2 to 4 working business days for the payment to be processed and applied to your student account.
Are there any charges for paying my fees online?
When selecting your preferred payment method, the total amount due will be clearly displayed next to each payment option.
The total amount for debit/credit card payments includes any processing fees charged by our payment partner, Flywire.
Flywire will not impose any additional fees on top of the final amount confirmed when booking your payment.
Please note, it is important to complete your payment using a debit/credit card denominated in the currency you have selected to pay in.
If you use a dual currency card or a card denominated in a different currency other than what was selected as your payment method, your card provider may perform currency conversion, which will result in additional charges that are outside of Flywire's control.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation:
Study information
Modules
Programmes

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/students/graduation:
Graduation
Order the graduation brochure which can be personalised and posted directly to you
Watch the ceremonies via our live web stream
Order merchandise
Privacy policy
Accessibility
Ceremony & reception
Dates and deadlines
Documents
Graduation checklist
Photography
Registration & tickets
Robing
Travel & parking
Should you need to contact us on the day of your ceremony, please call SID on:
In case of emergency while on campus, please contact Estate Patrol on +44 (0)1392 723999.
Email: graduationsuoe@exeter.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/students/newstudents:
In Exeter contact SID the
Essential and advisable tasks for you to complete before you get here plus information for international students .
Tasks you must complete when you arrive plus information for international students .
The week before term starts is known as Welcome Week.
It will be running from Monday 15 - Sunday 21 September 2025.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/students/returning-students:
We’re so pleased to welcome you back for another year of study with us.
To help you settle back into Uni life these pages have loads of useful links and information that aim to set you up for the new term.
Select your campus below for everything you need to reconnect with your University community this autumn and through into 2025.
We wish you all the best for the new academic year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/staff:
Your starting point for professional services support
Visit the new PS Connect Portal
Keep up to date
Online resources for learning and development
Visit the LearnSmart platform
Find answers to your digital questions
Weekly bulletin
Online learning and development resources
The Digital Hub

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/departments/finance/contact:
Student Information Desk (SID)
Our SID advisors are your first point of contact for information on non-academic enquiries including:
For full details including information on how to submit an enquiry, please see the dedicated SID webpage
Staff Helpdesk
The Finance Helpdesk is an internal helpdesk for queries about purchasing and budgets.
We can help with 'how to...' queries on Finance Services processes and procedures:
Mon, Tues, Thurs, Fri
Wed
9-4
10-4
Sat/Sun/ Bank Hols
Research applications, costing and live grant queries should be directed to the cluster teams .
Supplier Helpline
Supplier Helpline for invoice queries:
Tel: 01392 722777
Email: accountspayableenquiries@exeter.ac.uk
Accounts Payable
All queries should be routed to accountspayableenquiries@exeter.ac.uk .
There is an auto filtering system in place on this mailbox; please use the following text in the subject of your email to facilitate quick processing.
If escalation is required due to non response or non resolution on a query, this should be routed to the following people:
1st Escalation Accounts Payable Team Lead, Nicole Molyneux-Sandwith: n.molyneux-sandwith@exeter.ac.uk
2nd Escalation Accounts Payable Manager, Tracey Isaacs: t.isaacs@exeter.ac.uk
3rd Escalation Head of Financial Operations, Glenn Allen: Glenn.Allen@exeter.ac.uk
Accounts Receivable
All Commercial Accounts Receivable queries should be sent to AccountsReceivable@exeter.ac.uk
All internal (University of Exeter) Student related queries should be sent to FeesAdmin@exeter.ac.uk
Students and associated third parties (Parent, Sponsor) are advised to direct all enquiries through SID - Full contact details can be found on the dedicated SID webpage
If escalation is required due to a non response on a query, this should be routed to the following people:
1st Escalation Financial Operations Team Lead (AR), Ben Trotman : B .W.Trotman@exeter.ac.uk
2nd Escalation Financial Operations Manager (AR), Matthew Slater: M.R.Slater@exeter.ac.uk
3rd Escalation Head of Financial Operations, Glenn Allen: Glenn.Allen@exeter.ac.uk
Banking Operations
All queries should be routed to bankingoperations@exeter.ac.uk .
1st Escalation Cash Operations Team Lead, Lesley Stone: l.d.stone@exeter.ac.uk
2nd Escalation Cash Operations Manager, Tracey Isaacs: t.isaacs@exeter.ac.uk
Student Funding
All general Student Funding queries should be sent to FundingAdmin@exeter.ac.uk
For Scholarship specific queries, please send to FinanceScholarships@exeter.ac.uk
1st Escalation Financial Operations Team Lead (SFT), Katie Huxham: K.Huxham@exeter.ac.uk
2nd Escalation Financial Operations Manager (SFT), Matthew Slater: M.R.Slater@exeter.ac.uk
Faculty Teams
Please contact your Faculty Financial Planning and Reporting team for queries about budget forecasting, planning for future budget changes and monitoring of budgets:
Professional Services Team
Please contact the Professional Services Finance Team for queries around ESR1 approvals and Professional Services journal requests:
PSFinanceTeam@exeter.ac.uk
Specialist Finance Teams
Who we are
The Procurement Operations team are responsible for all spend under £50,000.
They re available to guide and assist you with all buying activity, including purchases requiring quotes (above £10,000), spot purchases (under £10,000), and manage systems (including the Advanced e-Marketplace, purchasing cards and Amazon Business).
Please get in contact before you start your buying processes to allow the team to assist you.
Please contact the team by emailing Procurement-Operations@Exeter.ac.uk .
You can also contact the team via Teams.
Name
Job Title
Contact Details
Strategic Procurement are a professionally qualified and experienced team that use the University’s values to ensure that value for money is at the heart of all purchasing decisions.
The team use a category management approach to work proactively with a wide range of stakeholders in order to develop sourcing strategies for the procurement of goods, services and works, leading on all tendering above £50,000.
It also provides an advisory service to the University on anything relating to procurement, such as value for money, legal compliance, risk mitigation and sustainability.
Finance Systems
Research: Assistant Director (Research Finance)
VAT

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/departments/timetable:
Welcome to the Timetabling and Room Booking Office.
We manage the development and maintenance of the University's teaching schedules and provide an internal ad-hoc room booking service.
Personal timetables are accessible through the MyExeter App and the MyTimetable web service.
Personalised timetables are also synced to the O365 calendar associated with your student account.
Visit our help pages for useful information, including how to export your timetable to other calendar platforms.
To make a booking, select the “Room Bookings” link below for the appropriate academic year.
If your booking is for a conference or if you are not a University staff member, please contact Event Exeter for assistance.
To learn more about the online booking system, we recommend watching our instructional video and reviewing our written guides, also available below.
Staff can currently book teaching spaces until Sunday 21st September 2025.
Please note that meeting spaces are available for booking until the end of the academic year.
After this, the ability to reserve teaching rooms is restricted, as timetablers will continue to make adjustments to the timetables during that period.
Student guild committee members can make bookings up to 28 days in advance of today, provided it falls within the specified booking window outlined above.
Timetabling Information
Room Booking Services

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/research/amr:
Antimicrobial Resistance Research
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a significant global threat to healthcare and society.
Recent estimates suggest that five million people die each year from antibacterial resistant infections, with the cumulative impact upon the global economy placed at $100 trillion by the year 2050.
A One Health approach to tackling AMR is key, a fact recognised by the World Health Organization in their report ‘ World Leaders Call for Action ’ .
At the University of Exeter we recognise that antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is an issue on a global scale.
Our research spans from fundamental lab work right through to influencing global policies on the issue.
Our teams are committed to developing new ways to reduce antibiotic resistance, minimise antibiotic use, create alternative treatments, and tackle the major health and food threat from anti-fungal resistance.
We have further strengths in understanding how resistance spreads in our environments, and in fungal resistance , in plants and humans.
We excel at combining the expertise of academics in traditionally disparate disciplines to join forces to find new ways to tackle global, complex challenges.
Our One Health approach unites specialists in microbiology, medical mycology, clin i cal application and global behaviour change.
Only by transcending boundaries can we bring about meaningful improvement.
We have a strong and diverse network of antimicrob i al resistance (AMR) researchers, and we’re part of the GW4 AMR Alliance , along with the universities of Cardiff, Bath and Bristol.
Together, we can find new solutions to one of the greatest health challenges of our time.
Professor Neil Gow , Professor of Microbiology at the University of Exeter
Discover how our vital research is helping the global fight against antimicrobial resistance.
Our research highlights the hidden danger of AMR in our waters, revealing how human activities contribute to the accumulation of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria and antimicrobials.
Read more »
Our scientists take a molecular approach to understanding how pathogens and antibiotics interact, and investigating new ways to make them more effective, or to find alternatives.
Read more »
Antifungal resistance is less recognised amid the AMR challenge, yet fungal diseases affect billions of people each year and are responsible for approximately 1.5 million deaths per year worldwide.
Our One Health ethos unites social scientists and specialists in humanities with microbiologists, mathematicians and many more, achieving a holistic approach to influencing policy and behaviours.
Adilia Warris is a Professor in Paediatric Infectious Diseases and a Co-Director of the MRC Centre for Medical Mycology at the University of Exeter, as well as a consultant in paediatric infectious diseases in Great Ormond Street Hospital, London.
Her research profile has a strong translational focus, and specific areas of interest include antifungal resistance, antifungal stewardship, and host-fungus interactions.
Adilia chairs the Fungal Infection Working Group within PENTA Child Health through which post-graduate courses in Paediatric Mycology are coordinated as well as multi-centre European studies to obtain a better insight in the fungal and clinical epidemiology of fungal infections in neonates and children, and antifungal prescribing patterns.
Stefano Pagliara is Professor of Membrane Transport in AMR at the University of Exeter.
His research is focused on understanding how microbial cells interact with their environment both as a community and as individual cells with an emphasis on the transport of antibiotic molecules across bacterial membranes.
Besides standard microbiology techniques and omics approaches, his group develops bespoke microfluidic devices that enable us to accurately control the microenvironment surrounding the cells and measure antibiotic accumulation and efficacy on the very same cell.
These cutting-edge capabilities allow his work to shed light on the molecular mechanisms underpinning AMR and to discover new therapies based on combinations of antibiotic molecules and bacteriophages.
Dr Anne Leonard is an environmental epidemiologist and microbiologist working across disciplines to understand the presence and dissemination of antimicrobial resistant bacteria in natural environments, and the impact on human health resulting from exposure to resistant bacteria in natural environments.
Anne joined the European Centre for Environment and Human Health in 2013 to undertake a PhD in Medical Sciences.
After completing her PhD in 2016, she conducted research with the University of Exeter and the Chinese University of Hong Kong into antibiotic resistant bacteria in coastal bathing waters in Hong Kong.
Following on from this, she was awarded an Industrial Innovation Fellowship by the Natural Environment Research Council into quantifying the contributing that landscape-scale processes make to the transmission of antibiotic resistant bacteria in coastal bathing waters.
Dr Jehangir Cama is a biophysicist specialising in the development of microfluidic techniques for quantitative biology and biosensing.
His expertise focuses on assay development for antibiotic research, focusing on novel techniques to facilitate the rational design of next-generation antibiotics.
As well as this, Jehangir is interested in the application of biomedical research to policy and industry.
He jointly initiated and led the development of a strategic partnership agreement between the University of Exeter and the Medicines Discovery Catapult to facilitate the clinical translation of biomedical research.
Also fostering interdisciplinary partnerships across the academic, charity and development sectors to tackle the policy aspects of antimicrobial resistance.
High quality PhD training is an urgent priority to ensure the next generation of researchers is equipped with the skills to make a real impact worldwide.
Explore PhD study options today.
Learn more »
Please support our research into AMR which is classed as a major threat by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and one of their top priorities.
Support AMR Research »

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/research/evidence-based-justice:
Evidence-based justice
We collect and analyse [qualitative and quantitative] data to identify and understand sources of injustice in the legal system, including through our specialist interdisciplinary lab, the Evidence-Based Justice Lab .
Our work explores jury decision making, the origins of false guilty pleas, evidence assessment, the effectiveness of legislation to target misinformation and disinformation, the impact of unjust accusation on mental health, the trajectories and psychologies of ethical malpractice, attainment gaps in professional education, and professional governance.
This work is shaping the practical frameworks that will guide meaningful change at institutional and individual levels, including on criminal and civil justice including evidence assessment in criminal justice, legal professional regulation, the conduct of litigation, and corporate governance.
By addressing these critical areas, we aim to empower lawyers and policymakers with information that will allow them to address the underlying causes of miscarriages of justice and ineffective regulatory frameworks that we have seen ruin thousands of lives.
Professor Rebecca Helm
Professor Richard Moorhead and his team’s pathbreaking research examines the ethical dilemmas faced by lawyers , the systemic failures that can lead to wrongful convictions , and the mental health impacts of unjust accusation .
Their work on the Post Office Horizon Scandal highlights the importance of legal professionals upholding the highest ethical standards, while their advocacy for reforms in lawyer conduct and decision-making is driving positive change within the legal system.
Learn more
Professor Rebecca Helm’s pioneering work as director of the Evidence-Based Justice Lab is combining rigorous empirical research grounded in behavioural science with more traditional legal research in order to promote the effective translation of scientific work into legal policy and practice.
Professor Helm and the Lab team have established the UK's first searchable Miscarriages of Justice registry, providing invaluable insights into the systemic issues and pressures that contribute to wrongful convictions.
By harnessing the power of data, their work is empowering researchers, policymakers, and legal professionals worldwide to drive meaningful reforms to create more fair and effective legal policy.
Richard Moorhead is Professor of Law and Professional Ethics and sits on the Horizon Compensation Advisory Board advising the Department for Business and Trade on Post Office compensation schemes.
With 30 years of experience researching lawyers and legal services drawing on law, psychology, sociology, management science, and economics, working with governments, NGOs, and regulators, he now focuses on lawyers’ ethics.
Founder of the lawyerwatch.blog, he has recently completed a project on ethics and the rule of law for the Legal Services Board with Steven Vaughan.
He is currently working on the Post Office Scandal with Karen Nokes, Sally Day, and Rebecca Helm on a three-year ESRC funded project examining the impacts and causal pathways of ethical error.
We work with many colleagues at other institutions across the world on joint research and education projects.
Connect with our academic community and explore exciting new possibilities.
Get in touch

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/sdgs:
Sustainable Development Goals
Recognised for our progress towards delivering Responsible Consumption and Production, Clean Water and Sanitation, Partnership for the Goals , and Life Below Water.
We have been named as one of the top 30 educational institutions – and top 2 per cent of those ranked worldwide - in the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2025.
The ranking charts the performance of more than 2,300 institutions against the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of 17 goals which provide a shared blueprint for sustainable development and a sustainable future, which set out targets to end poverty, protect the planet, and achieve prosperity for all by 2030.
At the University of Exeter, we’re committed to using the power of our education and research to create a greener, healthier and fairer future for all.
An integral part of this work is our commitment to the United Nations SDGs.
Our strategic vision ensures they are embedded in everything we do to make an impact in the world.
We seek to use the power of our education and research to create a sustainable, healthy and socially just future.
These results show our progress towards our goals which are to:
The University of Exeter signed the Sustainable Development Goals Accord in 2019, committing to report on the SDGs on an annual basis and embedding the SDGs in everything that we do from our curriculum and research, to wider activities at the University.
This is illustrated by our conception and leadership of Future17, the Sustainable Development Goals Challenge Programme .
In association with QS, we are bringing together students from across all six continents to work alongside global organisations in virtual groups to develop solutions to help meet the UN’s SDGs.
Alongside being ranked Top 30 in this year’s THE Impact Rankings, we have placed in the top 50 globally across 9 of the United Nations SDGs:
SDG12: Responsible Consumption and Production - Ranked 2
Aim: To ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
SDG13: Climate Action – Ranked =17
Aim: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
SDG6: Clean Water and Sanitation – Ranked 33
Aim: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all
SDG17: Partnership for the Goals – Ranked =35
Aim: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development
SDG10: Reduced Inequalities – Ranked 39
Aim: Reducing inequalities and ensuring no one is left behind
SDG 14: Life Below Water – Ranked 40
Aim: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development
SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy – Ranked 41
Aim: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all
SDG 2: Zero Hunger – Ranked 48
Aim: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture
SDG15: Life on Land – Ranked 48
Aim: To conserve life on land, protect and restore terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and stop biodiversity loss

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/facts/tef:
The University of Exeter has been rated Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
This is underpinned by Gold ratings in each of the two aspects of the assessment: Student Experience and Student Outcomes.
The Office for Students (OfS) describes a Gold rating as recognising those universities "delivering consistently outstanding teaching, learning and outcomes for its students.
It is of the highest quality found in the UK."
The Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023 is a government initiative in the United Kingdom aimed at ensuring high-quality teaching in higher education institutions.
Its primary purpose is to provide prospective students and their families with clear and easily understandable information about the quality of teaching and learning at universities and colleges.
The TEF also encourages universities and colleges to continually improve their teaching standards and student support services.
By recognizing and rewarding institutions that deliver excellent teaching, it aims to enhance the overall quality of higher education in the UK.
TEF 2023 assesses institutions based on various criteria, focussing on student outcomes and student experience.
TEF ratings apply to the University overall and are valid for four years, from 2023 to 2027.
The University of Exeter participated in the inaugural TEF exercise and achieved a Gold TEF rating in June 2017.
This rating expired in September 2023 when the University was awarded its new Gold rating, for four years.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/departments/inclusion/accreditations/athenaswan:
Advance HE’s Athena Swan Charter was established in 2005 to encourage and recognise the commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM) employment in higher education and research.
In May 2015 the Charter was expanded to include arts, humanities, social sciences, business and law (AHSSBL) departments, in addition to professional and support roles.
In 2020, Advance HE launched the transformed UK Athena Swan Charter following a period of review.
The Charter now recognises work undertaken to address gender equality more broadly, and not just barriers to progression that affect women.
The University of Exeter is proud to hold an institutional Athena Swan Silver Award and all our STEMM departments currently hold awards at Bronze or Silver level.
University of Exeter gender equality action plan
The University of Exeter is proud to hold an institutional Athena Swan Silver Award.
You can view our 2024 Athena Swan Silver application (PDF) online.
Our Gender Equality Group will monitor progress on our gender equality action plan 2024-28 (PDF).
Please contact our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion team ( EDI@exeter.ac.uk) if you have any feedback, comments or questions.
All our Faculty of Environment, Science and Economy (ESE) departments currently hold Athena Swan awards at Bronze or Silver level:
All departments in the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences hold an Athena Swan Silver award:
The following Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences (HASS) departments hold an Athena Swan Bronze award:
Other HASS departments are currently working on Athena Swan Bronze applications, including:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/our-campuses/streatham-campus:
The Streatham Campus is the University’s largest site in Exeter and is readily acknowledged as one of the most beautiful in the country with lakes, parkland, woodland and gardens as well as modern and historical buildings.
The majority of students are based on Streatham Campus.
Campus tour
Take a 360 Virtual Tour of the Streatham Campus
Download a PDF version of the Streatham Campus map .
To view accessibility and sustainability information please view the PDF Area maps of Streatham Campus: Area A | Area B | Area C | Area D | Area E
By car
Use postcode EX4 4QJ .
The University has a private car sharing group through carsharedevon for staff and students – a free and easy way to save money and help cut congestion.
Visitor car parking
Visitors may only park in car park C.
Visitors must have a valid Pay By Phone session or a visitor hanging permit provided by the University.
All other parking bays are for permit holders only from 08:00 -18:00.
Please note that parking spaces are limited, especially during term, and we encourage visitors to use public transport where possible.
Visitors may park in any parking bay outside the restricted hours , or at weekends for a charge per session of £0.50 - this can be paid through the Pay By Phone app.
Our parking permit income will continue to subsidise sustainable transport alternatives.
At present this income contributes towards the shuttle bus from St David’s station, the Stagecoach UNI bus services, discounted bus tickets, shower and facilities for cyclists and walkers.
For more information, please see the Sustainable Travel webpages .
Public transport
The University is within easy walking distance of Exeter city centre which is well served by public transport.
The Streatham Campus is served by the UNI route.
The UNI bus route includes St Luke’s Campus, the City Centre and Streatham Campus.
Download the UNI Bus Timetable (PDF).
National Express coaches (08705 808080) call at Exeter Coach Station.
The Coach Station is a short walk to the High Street where you can catch the local D bus which will take you to the Streatham Campus.
Exeter has two railway stations - Exeter St David's (main station) and Central.
Exeter St David's Station is approximately 10 minutes walk from the Streatham Campus and taxis are available.
The average journey time from London Paddington is 2 hours 30 minutes to Exeter.
Use National Rail Enquiries to plan your route.
For passenger information telephone 08457 484950.
Apple Taxis Exeter (01392 666666) have a dedicated taxi rank on campus.
Apple Taxis have offices at both Exeter St David's rail station and Exeter International Airport
Direct flights operate into Exeter from Dublin, Belfast and airports in the United Kingdom including Aberdeen, Belfast, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Guernsey, Jersey, Newcastle and Norwich.
Further information is available from Exeter International Airport website .
Further information on sustainable travel options can be found on our sustainability website .
By bike
Exeter is a Cycling Demonstration Town and the University is well served with traffic-free cycle routes.
You can download the Exeter Cycle map to plan your route from the Travel Devon website.
Cycle parking is available at both campuses.
Find out more about the provisions for cyclists at the University on our Sustainability website .
The address for enquiries at the Streatham Campus is: University of Exeter Streatham Campus Northcote House Exeter EX4 4QJ
For Sat Nav please use the postcode EX4 4QJ.
The Streatham Campus, the University’s largest site in Exeter, is built around a country estate overlooking the city and is readily acknowledged as one of the most beautiful in the country.
A Registered Botanic Garden, Streatham Campus is described by The Times as the ‘best-gardened campus in Britain’ and by The Independent as having a ‘sublime’ setting.
The grounds feature many exotic trees and shrubs and with stunning views across the city to the sea at Exmouth.
Many students say they simply fell in love with the campus when they came to visit – its lakes, parkland, woodland and gardens make it a very special place that offers a safe and enjoyable environment for study.
The campus has seen huge investment over the past couple of years, the most ambitious part of which is The Forum , which provides a stunning centrepiece, offering a new Student Services Centre, a refurbished library, new technology-rich learning spaces, a 400-seat lecture theatre, a new University reception and retail and catering outlets.
All the teaching buildings, together with the sports park, the library, the shops, restaurants, cafés and bars are within walking distance of each other.
The city centre is only a 15-minute walk away, with catered halls of residence and most of our purpose-built, self-catered flats either on campus or nearby in the city centre.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/our-campuses/st-lukes-campus:
The St Luke's Campus is located on the east side of Exeter city centre, just over a mile from Streatham Campus across the city to the north-west.
St Luke’s is home to Sport and Health Sciences, the Medical School, the Academy of Nursing, the Department of Allied Health Professions, and PGCE students.
Take a 360 Virtual Tour of the St Luke's Campus.
Download a PDF version of the St Luke's Campus map .
By car (includes where to park)
Use postcode EX2 4TE.
Please note that visitor parking at the St Luke’s Campus consists of merely a handful of spaces.
Official visitors may park in any parking areas on the campus only if they have a visitor hanging permit provided by the University.
Permits must be obtained in advance from the relevant School.
Other visitors, without official permits will have to use the nearest public car park which is at The Triangle , off Heavitree Road.
The St Luke's Campus is served by the UNI bus route.
The UNI bus route includes St Luke’s Campus, the City Centre and Streatham Campus (download UNI Timetable PDF).
The local UNI bus connects the coach station to Streatham Campus.
Get off the bus at the top of The Queen’s Drive.
Exeter has two railway stations - Exeter St David’s (main station) and Central.
Exeter St David's station is about 30 minutes walk and Exeter Central Station approximately 20 minutes walk from the St Luke’s Campus.
Taxis are available from both stations.
The D bus stops outside St David’s and Central Stations and will take you to St Luke's Campus (see bus details above).
Apple Taxis have offices at both Exeter St David's rail station and Exeter International Airport.
The address for enquiries to the St Luke’s Campus is:
University of Exeter St Luke's Campus Heavitree Road Exeter EX1 2LU
It is located on the east side of the city centre, just over a mile from Streatham Campus across the city to the north-west.
Founded in 1854 as a teacher training college, students have studied at St Luke's for over 160 years.
Throughout that time the campus has grown and developed – currently, engagement activity is underway on an ambitious vision to shape the campus’s future as a hub of health and wellbeing research and education.
Although much has changed over the years, St Luke's has retained its vibrant, collegiate atmosphere and sense of history.
Alumni of St Luke's proudly refer to themselves as 'Lukies' and hold a deep affection for their former place of study.
As you walk through the arches of the traditional North Cloisters you will see the lawns of the quadrangle surrounded by modern teaching buildings.
Facilities include:
We invested £1.7 million in 2018 in Cross Keys, a high quality multipurpose space on campus.
This has created a social heart to St Luke’s Campus, including a café and a large space for students to meet, eat and study.
A £10.5 million upgrade to the South Cloisters was completed in 2015, providing additional, cutting-edge teaching and research space along with new dedicated space for the teaching of Medical Imaging.
The Students’ Guild organises many events and activities on campus and students at St Luke’s can also take full advantage of all the academic, social and sporting facilities at Streatham Campus.
St Luke's is directly opposite a Waitrose store, five minutes' walk from two areas of local shops, a 15 minute walk from the city centre and about a 35 minute walk from Streatham campus.
Buses to the city centre, train station and to Streatham campus can be caught directly outside the gates, and run very frequently.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/our-campuses/penryn-campus:
The Penryn Campus is set in 100 acres of countryside, close to the waterside town of Falmouth, and boasts beautiful views over the Fal estuary.
Made up of around 6,000 students, it offers a close-knit friendly community, in an arrangement that is unique as we share the campus with Falmouth University; a leading specialist arts institution.
Take a 360 Virtual Tour of the Penryn Campus.
Download a PDF version of the Penryn Campus map .
The Penryn Campus is approximately two hours’ drive from Exeter.
National Express coaches stop in Penryn.
For timetables, visit the National Express website or for passenger information phone: +44 (0) 08717 818181.
The U1 bus service from Truro Bus Station drops you direct to the campus.
For bus services within the southwest, visit the Traveline SouthWest website .
The Penryn Campus is approximately two and a half hours by train from Exeter.
The campus is in Penryn, which has its own station.
There is a frequent direct service to Truro from London, the Midlands and North and other major British cities.
At Truro, change to the branch line service to Falmouth and leave the train at Penryn.
The station is approximately a 15 minute walk from the campus.
For timetabling, visit the National Rail Enquiries website or phone: 08457 48 49 50.
NB : There is no taxi rank at Penryn station.
Taxis should be booked by prior arrangement, phone: 01326 373007.
Alternatively, the U1 bus service from Truro Bus Station drops you direct to the campus.
For timetabling visit the Traveline SouthWest website .
Abacus and Falmouth Taxis (01326 212141) are Falmouth's largest taxi firm and offer short and long distance journeys including airport transfers to UK airports.
The closest airport to the campus is Newquay.
Eastern Airways operates direct flights from London Gatwick, and EasyJet operates direct flights from Manchester – both flights are approximately 75 minutes.
Connecting flights are available to other destinations.
Car hire and taxi services are also available at Newquay Airport .
For public transport connections visit the Traveline South West website .
NB : Newquay Airport is approximately 40 km from Penryn.
If you’re using public transport you'll need to take a bus from the airport to Newquay, and then another bus to Penryn (typical total journey time one and a half to two hours).
The campus is roughly three quarters of an hour to an hour's drive by car from Newquay.
For information regarding car hire companies in Cornwall, refer to the Visit Cornwall website .
The address for enquiries to the Penryn Campus is:
University of Exeter Penryn Campus Penryn Cornwall TR10 9FE
Set in 100 acres of rolling countryside near the vibrant coastal town of Falmouth, the Penryn Campus combines stunning natural surroundings with world-class academic, research and residential facilities.
Overlooking the Fal estuary, it offers an inspiring place to live and learn.
Home to around 6,000 students, Penryn is known for its close-knit and friendly community.
The campus is uniquely shared with Falmouth University, a leading creative institution, creating a dynamic environment where science, humanities, business and the arts come together.
This diverse mix brings a rich interdisciplinary spirit to student life and learning.
We’re proud to be at the forefront of research that addresses some of the most pressing challenges facing the planet today.
Sustainability and environmental responsibility are embedded in our teaching, student experience and campus operations.
These values are reflected in our societies, research centres and curriculum - and are brought to life in flagship facilities like the £30 million Environment and Sustainability Institute (ESI) .
Recent investments have continued to expand our capabilities.
The £12 million Stella Turk Building, named after a pioneering Cornish scientist, has become a hub for the Centre for Ecology and Conservation .
It builds on the success of the Science and Engineering Research Support Facility (SERSF) and adds to a growing portfolio of cutting-edge infrastructure.
Specialist facilities include the Camborne School of Mines , Renewable Energy Engineering Facility (REEF), a £1.2 million Postgraduate Suite, a £4 million sports centre, and an on-site nursery.
The campus has also been recognised with a Green Flag Award for its beautiful and sustainable grounds.
In 2023, we were proud to welcome the European Centre for Environment and Human Health (ECEHH) to Penryn Campus, strengthening our leadership in the study of climate, health and wellbeing.
This move has also enabled the expansion of medical education facilities at our Truro site, supporting the next generation of healthcare professionals.
For more on what it’s like to study at the University of Exeter in Cornwall, visit the Cornwall Campuses site .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/our-campuses/truro-campus:
Our Truro Campus is the base for University of Exeter Medical School students studying for a proportion of their Bachelor of Medicine Bachelor of Surgery (BMBS) degree during years 2, 3, 4 and 5.
Students studying the BMBS programme at the University of Exeter will be expected to spend a portion of their degree studying in different locations across Devon and Cornwall and experiencing a diverse range of clinical and academic environments.
This will include a minimum of one year and maximum of two years being based in the Knowledge Spa at the Royal Cornwall Hospital (Truro), which is a modern, multi-disciplinary building with its own specialist teaching facilities.
BMBS students have access to the lecture theatre, seminar rooms, a common room, the Cornwall Health Library, the Life Sciences Resource Centre (LSRC) and the Constance Fozzard Clinical Skills Suite .
Other facilities include administrative and academic offices.
Students based in Truro also have full access to the social and student support facilities and activities offered at our Penryn Campus .
The Truro Campus is based at the Knowledge Spa on the Royal Cornwall Hospital (Treliske) site, on the outskirts of Truro.
The Knowledge Spa is on the edge of the main hospital site, close to the roundabout on the main road; Reception is through the main doors in the centre of the building, facing the car park.
The Knowledge Spa is also the Cornwall base for the Peninsula School of Dentistry and Nursing School which are part of Plymouth University.
The University of Exeter Medical School is based in:
Knowledge Spa Royal Cornwall Hospital Truro Cornwall TR1 3HD
University of Exeter Medical School Student Reception
Phone: +44 (0) 1872 255171
Email: ems-truroadmin@exeter.ac.uk
Directions
From Truro train station it’s a 25-30 minute walk or 10-15 minutes on a bike.
Turn right out of the station, go up the hill, right at the roundabout and follow the main road along to the hospital entrance.
A taxi to The Knowledge Spa at Treliske from the station is roughly ten minutes.
From the main station entrance, cross the road to the bus stop.
Most buses coming past the train station stop either within the hospital (Trelawny Wing main entrance) or at the lay-by on the main road just outside the hospital.
Regular buses stopping at the Treliske Lay-By west bound from the station include 36, 40, 304 and east bound 36, 40, 304 494.
Those stopping within the hospital include 304, 494, U1, U1A.
Turn off the A30 at Chiverton Cross roundabout, onto the A390 signed to Truro.
Follow for just under four miles, past Truro College, then at the next roundabout turn left into the hospital.
There is a paid car park at the hospital, but it's expensive and gets busy.
There are a limited number visitor parking spaces - permits need to be reserved in advance.
It's very easy to use the Langarth Park & Ride, on the A390, before you reach Truro College from the A30.
The Park & Ride bus goes about every ten minutes, and the bus comes through the hospital on the way into town or you can use the Park & Ride Treliske shuttle that just comes to the hospital.
Coming to Truro has really changed my perception of what it means to have a fulfilling life as a doctor.
Everyone here is passionate about medicine and passing on their knowledge to students to make us better doctors.
There are opportunities for academic and practical tutoring anywhere you ask, and there is a strong sense of community.
What is so great though, is that they all know how important it is to balance their hard work in the hospital with fulfilling activities outside of it.
I can go surfing, cycling, walking, or swimming anywhere around the local area and I'll usually see someone I know from the hospital.
There are so many opportunities to get out and enjoy yourselves, whether that is through art, food, sport, or nightlife.
I moved to Cornwall a year and a half ago and have found it to be an extremely positive experience.
I didn’t expect to develop as deep a connection with the place as I have done, especially as I moved down at the beginning of 2 nd year and was worried that I would miss out on the things Exeter has to offer.
However, I’ve found myself surrounded by a community of extremely welcoming and friendly people, both the students and staff, and I have the beauty of the outdoors and the ocean on my doorstep – both these things have been the biggest support I could hope for whilst doing my medical degree.
I have also enjoyed discovering the huge creative and artistic scene that Cornwall has to offer, and this along with swimming, surfing and constantly discovering new places, has provided me with an unforgettable and hugely multi-faceted university experience.
By embracing everything Cornwall has to offer, there is no doubt you can truly have a fantastic time here and I couldn’t recommend it enough.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/oursite:
The University of Exeter website is managed by the Digital team who work closely with colleagues from across the institution.
We strive to make the site as easy to use as we can, but we are always happy to receive suggestions for improvements; email webeditor@exeter.ac.uk .
The University site is very large containing a great deal of information for a wide range of users.
The site's navigational structure is intended to make it easy for people to find the information they need.
However, if you have difficulty finding what you want there are navigation aids available to assist you:
Breadcrumb trail
We provide a breadcrumb trail above the main content on each page to indicate where you are in the site.
Global navigation
The site includes global navigation links at the top of each page which divides the whole website into eight broad categories:
Search box
Throughout the University website a search box is available at the top right hand side of the page enabling you to type in search terms and search the University site.
Advanced options are available from the search results page if you wish to filter the results returned.
Site map
A full site map is available from the top right-hand menu on every page.
Website feedback
We welcome questions or comments regarding our website sent to the Web Editor .
We aim to ensure our website complies with accessibility guidelines and web standards.
More information about how accessible this site is and what we are doing to improve this can be found on our Accessibility statement page .
If you experience problems accessing information on this website please let us know at webeditor@exeter.ac.uk .
AbilityNet has further advice on making your device easier to use.
Supported web browsers and accessibility
Certain software and databases used at Exeter are browser specific and your department will inform you of these requirements.
Our websites should work correctly on the following web browsers - click on each link below for further information about how to enable accessibility features for each of these web browsers:
Documents and Software
This website provides large and complex documents using Adobe's Portable Document Format or PDF file format.
To view and print PDF files, you must have Adobe Acrobat Reader installed on your PC.
This website also publishes documents in Microsoft Word format.
To view and print Microsoft Word files, you must either have Word installed on your PC or you can use free online software .
This website also publishes documents in Microsoft Excel format.
To view and print Microsoft Excel files, you must either have Excel installed on your PC or you can download Microsoft Excel Viewer software.
Reader View
Most browsers offer a “Reader View” or “Reading View” that shows just the main content; it gets rid of navigation, ads, etc.
Some browsers let you set the text font, text size, text color, background color, and line spacing in Reader View.
Translate our site
There are a number of options available if you want to translate pages on the website into other languages.
You can translate our website into 60 different languages using Google Translate.
The University of Exeter is not responsible for the content or accuracy of external websites.
You may need to install Language Packs to view some of the languages correctly.
Google language translation
Microsoft Internet Explorer
Newer versions of Internet Explorer include a zoom feature that allows you to increase the whole web page.
There are three ways to do this.
Press CTRL and ' + ' to zoom in and CTRL and ' - ' to zoom out.
If you are using a mouse with a scrollwheel you can scroll text and images bigger and smaller by holding down the CTRL button on the keyboard and scrolling the scrollwheel at the same time.
See the Microsoft website for more information about accessibility options in Internet Explorer .
Chrome
See the Google website for more information about accessibility features in Chrome .
Firefox
Firefox uses a Zoom feature that resizes the whole web page.
The default Zoom setting will automatically resize all the images present on the page as well as the text.
So if you increase the size of text, images get bigger and vice versa.
Our site makes use of large billboard images with graphic text which can be made larger using this feature.
However, if you wish to resize only the text without enlarging the images you can disable automatic image resizing in Firefox.
Firefox will also remember the preferred Zoom text size setting you have used for individual sites you visit and will display them at the same size when you visit them again.
See the Mozilla website for more information about setting fonts and colours in Firefox .
Safari
Opera

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/oursite/accessibility:
Our accessibility teams support students with a disability or long-term health condition.
Occupational Health support staff with a mental or physical disability, impairment or health condition.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/oursite/dataprotection/foi:
The Freedom of Information (FOI) Act 2000 has been in force since January 2005.
The Act is designed to help increase confidence in public authorities through a greater transparency and openness about procedures and decision-making.
FOI places two main responsibilities on the University:
To produce a Publication Scheme
Under the Act the University is obliged to produce a Publication Scheme and Guide to Information identifying all the information that the University already publishes.
The scheme includes information such as the University Committee structure, term dates, procedures etc.
The University has adopted the Information Commissioner's model publication scheme (external link).
2.
To respond to requests for information
FOI gives everyone both from within and outside of the University a right of access to recorded information held by the University.
Individuals have the right to be told whether or not the University holds the information and if it is to have the information communicated to them.
The University has 20 working days in which to deal with the request.
It is important to note that FOI does not mean that all information must be provided in response to a request, there are reasons including Data Protection, Confidentiality and Commercial Interests that may exempt the information from being provided.
How to make a request
If the information you require is in our scheme, the scheme will indicate how you can obtain a copy.
If the information you require is not in our publication scheme please contact the University in writing.
To help us manage your requests please ensure that you include a description of the information you require and an address to which we can provide the information, please send your request to:
Data Protection Officer The University of Exeter Compliance, Governance & Risk c/o Northcote House The Queen's Drive Exeter EX4 4QJ Or via email: dataprotection@exeter.ac.uk
If the information disclosed is a dataset and has been requested in an electronic format, it must be provided in a reusable format this means that it should be machine-readable and in a format based on open standards, rather than a proprietary format.
We will normally provide these datasets as a spreadsheet in a CSV (comma separated value) format.
After a dataset has been disclosed it will be published on the University’s website.
If the dataset is a relevant copyright work, it will be provided under the terms of a specified licence.
Further information is available on the Information Governance webpages .
Your rights
The Freedom of Information Act aims to increase public confidence in public authorities through transparency and openness.
The Act gives you a right of access to recorded information held by the University.
You have the right to be told whether or not the University holds the information and if it is to have the information communicated to you.
The University has 20 working days in which to deal with your request.
This does not mean that all information must be provided in response to a request, there are reasons including Data Protection, Confidentiality and Commercial Interests that may exempt the information for being provided.
If this is the case the University will explain in full why information is being withheld and you have the right to appeal.
If you wish to request information from the University please visit our accessing information pages.
Background
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FoIA) was passed on 30 November 2000 and will be brought fully into force, across the public sector, on 1 January 2005.
The Act is enforced by the Information Commissioner, who oversees both Freedom of Information and Data Protection legislation.
The Act covers ‘public authorities’ which have been defined in the Act and include Higher Education Institutions.
The Act creates new rights of public access to all types of ‘recorded’ information held by public authorities, sets out exemptions from that general right, and places a number of obligations on public authorities.
The aim of the FoIA is to promote greater openness and accountability across the public sector.
It achieves this by giving public authorities two main responsibilities under the Act:
Rights under the Act
Under the Data Protection Act, individuals already have the right to access information about themselves, held on computer, and in some paper files.
Such requests for information are known as a 'subject access request’.
For the University and other public bodies, the Freedom of Information Act extends these rights to allow access to all the types of information we hold, whether personal or non-personal.
The publication scheme
The Act requires the University, as a public authority, to adopt and maintain a publication scheme .
A publication scheme is a guide to the information which the University has committed itself to publishing.
The purpose of doing this is to make a significant amount of information available proactively, without the need to respond to specific requests.
Requests for information
Any individual can make a request to the University for information.
The person making the request does not have to be the subject of that information.
If an individual is the subject of that information then the principles of the Data Protection Act to protect the data subject will take precedence over any Freedom of Information rights.
The Act gives applicants the following rights:
Anyone is able make a request for information, although the request must be made in writing, which includes emails and fax etc.
The applicant must include a name and address (email address is acceptable) and provide details of the information sought.
Such requests must be dealt with within 20 working days.
Exempt information
The Act creates a general right of access to information held by the University but some information may be regarded as exempt information and therefore will not have to be provided in response to an individual request.
There are 23 exemptions as follows:
s21.
Information accessible to public by other means
s22.
Information intended for future publication
s23.
Information supplied by, or relating to, bodies dealing with security matters
s24.
National security
s26.
Defense
s27.
International relations
s28.
Relations within the United Kingdom
s29.
The economy
s30.
Investigations and proceedings conducted by public authorities
s31.
Law enforcement
s32.
Court records etc
s33.
Audit functions
s34.
Parliamentary privilege
s35.
Formulation of Government policy etc.
s36.
Prejudice to effective conduct of public affairs (exempt information held by the House of Commons or Lords)
s37.
Communications with Her Majesty etc and honours
s38.
Health and safety
s39.
Environmental information
s40.
Personal information
s41.
Information provided in confidence
s42.
Legal professional privilege
s43.
Commercial interests
s44.
Prohibitions on disclosure
Read the full text of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 .
The University has adopted the Model Publication Scheme published by the Information Commissioner's Office; our Publication Scheme page will help you to locate information from the University of Exeter and help to ensure that your request is dealt with as quickly and efficiently as possible.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/modern-slavery-act:
Modern Slavery Act Statement
Following endorsement by UEB (6 March 2025) and Audit and Risk Committee (27 March 2025), the Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement is pending final sign-off by Council on 29 May 2025.
At the University of Exeter ("the University"), we are committed to protecting and respecting human rights and do not tolerate slavery, human trafficking and other exploitation.
This statement complies with Section 54, Part 6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the steps the University has taken regarding slavery and human trafficking.
The University combines world class research with high quality education at its campuses in Exeter, Devon and Penryn and Truro, Cornwall.
Formed in 1955, the University has over 29,000 students from 130 countries and over 155,000 alumni in 183 countries providing our academic community of staff, students and visiting researchers with a truly global experience and diverse, inclusive environment.
Its success is built on a strong partnership with its students and academics and a clear focus on high performance.
As already noted, the University is committed to protecting and respecting human rights and has embodied this ethical stance in a number of its policies, including:
The University has several policies that set out standards for procurement and suppliers.
These include:
In the Financial Year 2023/24, the University spent circa £217 million gross and currently has 5,667 active suppliers on T1, of which 3,613 were used in the last 12 months.
Procurement valued at and above £50,000 ex VAT was managed by Strategic Procurement to ensure compliance with legislation and to achieve value for money on bought-in goods and services.
Spend below this figure from September 2024 was then undertaken either by Faculties and Professional Services Teams when we introduced the new buying model.
Almost all supplier expenditure was with suppliers who have registered addresses in the UK, of which relatively few items relate to outsourced services.
As part of the university's commitment to align with ISO 20400:2017 for sustainable procurement, the Strategic Procurement Team conducts an annual heat mapping risk exercise to assess responsible procurement practices, identify key risk areas in sectors and suppliers, and pinpoint potential sectors and suppliers where issues related to human trafficking have historically arisen:
Clothing: The University does not have a significant volume of purchase from the clothing sector.
Most members of staff do not wear a uniform; however, we do have a contract in place for the sports centre with student clothing.
The tender included clauses regarding modern slavery and living wage.
Graduation gowns were purchased using the London Universities Purchasing Consortium (LUPC) framework.
It was a requirement of being approved onto the framework that suppliers had to sign the 'Sustain Supply Chain Code of Conduct', which covers aspects of Modern Slavery and Sustainability.
Having considered our supply chain and our procurement procedures, we have assessed the risk to be low.
Outsourced cleaning services: The University purchases outsourced cleaning services from local SMEs to supplement its own cleaning teams during periods of high demand e.g.
summer school, events etc.
Having considered our supply chain and our procurement procedures, we have assessed the risk to be medium but is managed through robust due diligence checks.
Outsourced security services: The University purchases outsourced security services from local SMEs to supplement its own security teams during periods of high demand to facilitate events etc.
IT: The University purchases a wide range of electronic and IT equipment and software.
Some of those items, particularly laptops, mobile phones and tablets can contain metals usually sourced in high-risk regions and the University is aware there is a well-documented risk of dangerous working conditions and child labour.
However, the University's main suppliers of such devices have robust Modern Day Slavery policies in place, and both actively monitor and address beaches in respect to these across their supply chains These suppliers work in collaboration with peer groups and recognized agencies to adopt best practice.
Agency Workers: The University has identified there is a potential risk with agency staff for cleaning, portering and other high service roles.
We seek to encourage suppliers to change their business model to enable businesses to pay their staff the Real Living Wage (RLW).
The use of agency workers is quite limited and normally undertaken via existing university sector frameworks awarded after careful due diligence of suppliers.
Where agencies are used on a one-off basis these tend to be UK-based and registered businesses.
The main cleaning contract stipulates that the RLW is to be paid to staff, with regular checks undertaken.
Construction: Most construction is carried out by major companies, which perform much of their work through their sub-contractors.
90% of our building contractors abide by the Considerate Contractor code of conduct which includes a commitment to the well-being of the site workforce.
The University also uses several procurement frameworks to source its contractors all of which use the Constructionline PAS91 pre-qualification process to vet contractors.
In terms of procurement, also see below the statements regarding Terms and Conditions and contractual arrangements.
The University arranged training on the Modern Slavery Act for staff, and additionally, Procurement Services' staff have also undertaken training that specifically addresses 'Protecting Human Rights in the Supply Chain' a course that looks at the issue of human trafficking/ethical procurement.
This training is available to all strategic procurement staff and other senior personnel involved with operational procurement.
The strategic procurement team has undertaken training with CIPS for Modern Slavery and Social Value in 2023.
The University has updated its corporate governance training and this now includes a section that covers the Modern Slavery Act.
This training is available to all staff.
Social Value has also been introduced into our procurement practices, the strategic procurement team have purchased and implemented the Social Value Portal which will monitor and report on the Social Value benefits being realised through third party spend.
The University maintains its procurement templates, including the Selection Questionnaire and tendering documentation to ensure these are in line with current regulatory requirements around modern slavery.
The University also works with a Higher Education procurement consortium including the Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium (SUPC) and is reassured that they are applying similar measures to their procurements and framework agreements.
The University maintains its standard terms and conditions for purchasing of goods, works and services, together with its contracts for Contractors and Consultants, to include an obligation to comply with the Modern Slavery Act and to pass this down to any supply chain.
The University has not identified any instance of a breach of the Modern Slavery Act in its supply chain.
Additionally, the University considers that a breach of the Modern Slavery Act would be a material breach of its contracts.
In a scenario where the University identified any instance of modern slavery in its supply chain, it would seek to take action in accordance with due process.
Actions would include: informing the police and terminating a contract.
Procurement at the University works to a category management approach, which gives a greater granularity of detail regarding categories of expenditure (particularly focusing on IT infrastructure, construction, cleaning and catering).
This will enable the University to reduce its supplier base and have greater scrutiny of these suppliers and their supply chain.
Where staff or others have concerns about potential breaches of the Modern Slavery Act, these can be raised directly with the University's Chief Financial Officer, who can be contacted via the following e-mail address: d.stacey@exeter.ac.uk .
The University does not have the resources to audit its supply chain to second, third (and lower) tiers, therefore we collaborate with others in the Higher Education sector and Central Government (e.g.
Cabinet Office/CCS frameworks).
The University analyses its external expenditure on bought goods & services to better understand & manage this expenditure.
The University has purchased licenses for the following tool to help audit/monitor modern slavery requirements:
• Social Value Portal - Social Value Portal enables us to procure, measure, manage and report social value via a single, easy to use, adaptable platform.
This software was implemented during 2024 and it is a requirement for all tenders over £50,000 to include Social Value.
The University's finance and procurement systems:
The University directly employs approximately 7000 employees and we have a robust set of employment related policies and procedures that prevent any possibility of modern slavery occurring within our workforce.
Our Human Resources (HR) directorate and recruiting managers follow a recruitment policy and processes which are regularly reviewed for compliance with legislation.
At the time of application, applicants have to provide 'right to work' information which is checked at offer stage.
The majority of interviews are conducted visually in either a face to face or live video format which provides assurance that individuals have freely chosen to attend.
A copy of the interviewee's right to work documentation is taken and either the originals verified by a University employee or, for visa holders (where applicable), the Home Office online checking service is used.
The Home Office check is then verified virtually by means of a video call.
The 'right to work' checks take place before a potential employees start date or on the morning of their first date of employment.
All employees receive a written contract of employment.
HR also provide information to all new employees on their contractual rights including sick pay, holiday pay and other benefits they may be entitled to.
The University is committed to paying the Living Wage Foundation "Real Living Wage".
Salary payments will only be paid into a bank account (or joint bank account) in the name of the employee/worker.
As the University implements its Global Strategy, we expect to employ an increasing number of individuals outside the United Kingdom.
The University has agreed a policy and procedures to ensure that overseas employment is fully compliant with statutory requirements in the host country on tax, social security and employment, where appropriate taking advice from professional advisers in the host country.
This will include ensuring that employment arrangements, whether they are employed directly by the University or through a third party, comply with the University's responsibilities under the Modern Slavery Act.
Work is on-going to strengthen institutional understanding and awareness of the compliance requirements across all legislation, particularly with regard to working internationally.
To improve this, we are in the process of developing the following:
The University has also incorporated reference to the Modern Slavery Act into its Reputation Management Policy, to ensure that the terms and requirements of the Act are recognised in our dealings with our alumni and potential donors.
As noted above, the University is committed to developing its policies, processes and procedures to ensure on-going compliance with the Modern Slavery Act and to ensure the policies around a zero tolerance to incidents of human trafficking and slavery are embedded.
The University intends to maintain its training programmes on the Modern Slavery Act and will have access to new systems which facilitate the on-going monitoring or supply chains to facilitate effective risk management and on-going monitoring of potential areas of higher risk.
Version 1 - Owned by the General Counsel and Director of Legal and Student Cases
Endorsed as follows:
- University's Executive Board, at its meeting on 6 March 2025
- Also received by Audit and Risk Committee, at its meeting on 27 March 2025
Approved as follows:
Council (awaiting final sign-off on 29 May 2025)
Professor Lisa Roberts President, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/oursite/dataprotection/request:
Request information about yourself under Data Protection (Subject Access Request)
The Data Protection Act (DPA) entitles individuals to request access to any personal data that the University is holding about them.
This is known as a ‘Subject Access Request’ (SAR).
This information explains the process for obtaining your personal data.
All SARs should be made in writing to the Data Protection Officer by emailing dataprotection@exeter.ac.uk .
The request form can be used and will help to ensure that we have all the information required to deal with your request.
Once we receive your request we may wish to confirm your identity.
In order to locate the correct information within the University, we may need to ask you to provide more information about the data you require.
The information provided in response to your request will be that which the University holds (subject to any exemptions) at the time we received your request.
The Act does allow routine updating and maintenance of the data to continue between the date on which the request is received and the date when the reply is dispatched.
This means that the information provided may differ from that which was held at the time your request was received, but only as a result of normal processing.
We may contact third parties mentioned within the file in order to obtain consent to disclose the information.
Where consent cannot be obtained or is denied we will consider the reasons and the University’s duty of care to both parties as specified in the DPA in order to decide whether or not to disclose the information.
All requests will be dealt with within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the valid request (including your ID, relevant information and response to any clarification).
The information will be dispatched to you as soon as the above process is complete.
In some exceptional circumstances The University may extend the duration of the process up to 90 days, where this is the case it will be communicated clearly to you.
Download Data Subject Request Form
Request information not about you under Freedom of Information or EIR*
Individuals have the right to be told whether or not the information is held by the University and if it is to have the information communicated to them.
This includes minutes from meetings, planning information, reports etc.
Anyone can request access to this information, the request must be made in a written form (email, letter) and can be given/addressed to any member of staff at the University.
The requester does not need to explain why they want the information, it is enough to ask for the information and provide a name and contact details to which to provide the information.
If the information you require is not listed in our Publication Scheme, Guide to Information or website please contact the University in writing.
To help us manage your request please ensure that you include a description of the information you require and an address to which we can provide the information.
All FOIs must be made in writing to the Information Governance Team .
It is important to note that FOI does not mean that all information must be provided in response to a request, there are reasons including Data Protection, Confidentiality and Commercial Interests that may exempt the information for being provided.
A full list of exemptions can be found in the more detailed information.
For more information about the Freedom of Information Act read our summary of the FoI Act or link to our FOI pages .
*EIR - Environmental Information Regulations
Request transcripts and replacement certificates via Student Administration
Some information can be provided to students without going through the Subject Access Request process and details are available from Student Administration .
Access to environmental information is provided through the Environmental Information Regulations.
Please submit requests as described under FOI above and your request will be dealt with accordingly.
Further information
You may wish to refer to the University's and Data Protection and Freedom of Information: Complaints Procedure .
If you have any enquiries about any requests for information under Data Protection, Freedom of Information or Environmental Information Regulations please contact dataprotection@exeter.ac.uk .
If you require more information about these laws, or are unhappy with the way the University has dealt with your request please contact:
The Information Commissioner Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 5AF
www.ico.org.uk
The University has adopted the Model Publication Scheme published by the Information Commissioner's Office .
The following information will help you to locate information from the University of Exeter and help to ensure that your request is dealt with as quickly and efficiently as possible.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/oursite/copyright:
Title to Copyright
In the absence of specific statements to the contrary copyright for the entire University of Exeter (the 'University') web server located at www.exeter.ac.uk (the 'web site') (as a compilation or as a whole) vests in the University.
Alternative Title to Copyright
If any information contained within the University's website is the property of a third party, the identity of the third party will be clearly stated within the content of the information and/or encoded as a META statement within the source code of the information.
Moral Rights
All Moral Rights remain the property of the author/creator of information included in the University's website.
Further information in relation to the University's website and this copyright notice can be obtained from the University Copyright Officer .
Website disclaimer
Every effort has been made to ensure that the information contained on the University's website is accurate at the time of creation and/or modification of the website.
However, the University cannot guarantee the completeness or accuracy of information contained on the website and shall not be responsible for errors or inaccuracies.
The University reserves the right to make changes to or take down the website or remove or alter any content at any time and without notice.
Under no circumstances shall the University be liable for any reliance by you on any information which is made available on the website.
Further, the University does not in any way guarantee that the website will be available, uninterrupted or error free.
Please note that this site contains links to relevant external websites.
Whilst we select these links carefully, we cannot guarantee, or be held responsible for, their quality or content.
Email disclaimer
The following text is our disclaimer for any email received from a Universiy of Exeter email address.
This email and any attachment may contain information that is confidential, privileged, or subject to copyright, and which may be exempt from disclosure under applicable legislation.
It is intended for the addressee only.
If you received this message in error, please let us know and delete the email and any attachments immediately.
The University will not accept responsibility for the accuracy/completeness of this e-mail and its attachments.
The University cannot guarantee that this message and any attachments are virus free.
Any views or opinions expressed in this message are my own and do not necessarily represent those of the University.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/sitemap:
expand whole map collapse whole map Home About us Home About the University Overview History Facts and figures Rankings and league tables The Russell Group Annual report and Financial statements Degree Outcomes Statement Economic Impact Honorary graduates Honorary graduates 2025 timetable Archive Previous honorary graduates Nominations Watch the ceremonies Partnership principles Governance Strategies About our strategies Strategy 2030 Education Strategy Home Our priorities Enhance our Undergraduate Offer Postgraduate Taught Portfolio To Support and Enable Our People Digital Transformation To Articulate a Distinctive Model for Education at Exeter Global Strategy Home Research and Impact Strategy Arts and Culture Strategy Digital Strategy 2030 Professional Services Strategy Success for All Home Success for All Strategy Access and Participation Plan Governance Info for Students Info for Staff Widening Participation Strategy Enabling AI at Exeter Community The University in the community Community news Community helplines Community fund (Exeter) Neighbourhood Beat Manager (Exeter) Local residents' information (Exeter) Students' information (Exeter) Getting involved Accommodation Student support Community issues The Students on the Move scheme Student Recycling Volunteering in Cornwall Local residents' information (Cornwall) Students' information (Cornwall) Armed Forces Covenant Contacts Term dates Social media Contact Alumni and supporters Home About us About Global Advancement Join the team Alumni networks Alumni benefits Discounts Lifelong learning Careers support EXETER Magazine Video interviews Newsletters News Events Support us Donate Volunteer The Alumni Annual Fund Support a crowdfunding project Leave a gift in your will Your impact Memories Exeter Gigs St Luke's Sports clubs Graduation Contact Contact us Home Enhanced Directory Search Social Media Current staff Home News and updates Weekly Bulletin Submit your news Bulletin archive Rumourbuster Staff talks Faculty news Make a difference HR and employment Your employment Benefits and recognition Colleague Wellbeing Equality, diversity and inclusion Groups, networks and activities Occupational Health Volunteering and giving A-Z of services and support Campus facilities Contacts Current students Home A to Z of services and support Student news SID Student Finance Wellbeing Services Stay safe Stay healthy Events Faculties Faculty of Environment, Science and Economy About us Leadership team Equity and Inclusion Our departments Studying Spring into Wellness 2025 Research Facilities Global partnerships Business and commercial News Events Staff sharepoint Faculty of Health and Life Sciences About us Leadership team Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Our departments Studying Research degrees Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Clinical Academic Training Programme About us Our mission Key people and contacts Why choose Exeter?
Commitment to EDI Commitment to PPIE​ ← Home Pathways for doctors​ Pathways for registered health and social care professionals Pathways for practitioners in local authority settings Research at the University of Exeter NIHR infrastructure at Exeter Training and support FAQs Events Testimonials Research Global partnerships Business and commercial News Events Contact us Faculty of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences About us Faculty Executive Board Faculty Operations Equality, Diversity and Inclusion League tables Our departments Education Work experience as part of your course Professional Education Research Research Institutes and Centres Research facilities Our PGR community Funding and awards Exeter Writes Centre for Advanced Research Methods (CARM) Global Engagement Visit us UK-China Humanities Alliance (UKCHA) About Members Activities Exeter-Fudan Global Thought Network Business Engagement and Innovation Sustainability Our Connections and Strategy Virtual Scholar Scheme News Events Inaugural Lectures Languages in a Global World Creative Dialogues Contact us Global Exeter Agents Home Agent Portal Guide Agent Resources Training Agent Finance Agent Quality Framework Resources Student Guide to Choosing an Agent Supporting Your Students Student Finance Accommodation Student Experience International Study Centre (ISC) Application Information Events, Materials & Campus Info Our Campuses University Open Days Contact Us Staff (internal) Home Setting up a partnership Funding opportunities Travelling abroad Study Abroad Coordinators Qualification guides Our departments Research and Innovation Home PhD & research degrees Our institutes Our networks Our services Facilities Working with business Services for staff and students News Events Events listing Postgraduate Research Showcase Soapbox Science Volunteers About Contact us About Research and Innovation at Exeter Animals in research Frequently asked questions Case studies REF 2021 Services for staff and students Study Student Life Living in Cornwall Living in Exeter, Devon Meet our students Societies and clubs Sports and exercise Students' unions Support and wellbeing University Open Days Undergraduate Open Days Postgraduate Open Days PGCE Open Days The University of Law (ULaw) Open Day Offer Holder Days Campus Tours Accommodation in Cornwall How to choose accommodation Find accommodation Accommodation guarantee Room finder Applying and paying How we allocate rooms Accommodation Bursary Clearing Moving in Information for current residents Private accommodation Rent Guarantor Service Contracts and policies Contact FAQs Accommodation in Exeter Accommodation in Exeter How to choose accommodation Undergraduate students Postgraduate and Research students January starting programmes International students Study Abroad and Exchange Students INTO students Advice for parents and supporters Adjustments to accommodation Supported returning students Couples and families Catered accommodation Twin Shared rooms Room Finder All accommodation options Building works Applying and paying About your offer How we allocate rooms How and when to pay Accommodation Bursary Clearing Moving in New Arrivals Guide Information for residents Private accommodation Move Smart Campaign Private Accommodation Options Studentpad Relocation Information Accommodation Providers Local Information Contracts and policies Concerns and Complaints Reporting a concern Contact Admissions terms, conditions and policies Ask a current student Campaigns Scholarships Careers Career support Enhance your CV Real work experience After graduation Choose Exeter Clearing Sign up for more information Prepare for Clearing Choose Exeter Explore our campuses International students Clearing and Gaokao Events in China Clearing Events in Hong Kong Clearing Events in India Contact us Parents and supporters Degree Apprenticeships Information for Employers About degree apprenticeships Benefits of a degree apprenticeship Government Levy and funding Our programmes Our partners More information and useful links New programme development Research Partnerships Events Contact us Information for aspiring apprentices Benefits of a degree apprenticeship Our programmes Apprentices in action What to expect How to apply More information and useful links About functional skills Current vacancies Why Exeter?
Contact us Teachers, Parents and Supporters Benefits of a degree apprenticeship What to expect How to apply Our programmes Why Exeter?
Contact us Our programmes Advanced Clinical Practitioner Apprenticeship Accounting Finance Manager (ACCA) (BSc) Accounting Finance Manager (CIMA) (BSc) Chartered Manager Civil Engineering Diagnostic Radiographer (Level 6 BSc) Diagnostic Radiographer (Level 6 MSc) Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (BSc) Financial Services Professional (BSc) Mine Management Project Management Certificate in Psychological Wellbeing Practice Senior Leader Senior Leader in Healthcare (Elizabeth Garrett Anderson) Senior People Professional Apprenticeship Systems Thinking Practitioner Chartered Manager (Mary Seacole) Digital and Technology Solutions Specialist (MSc) Operations Manager People Professional Download our employer brochure English language requirements Exeter Scholars About Year 12 Subject Activity Strands Benefits Scholarships Scholarship recipients Alumni Apply Year 10 In school Residential Year 11 Year 12 South West National Virtual Year 13 Postcode eligibility checker Current participants Year 10 In school Residential Virtual Year 12 South West 2022-24 Biological and Life Sciences The Business School Classics Drama Ecology, Biosciences, and Conservation Engineering English Geography Geography, Earth, and Environmental Sciences Humanities and Social Sciences Pathways to Law Mathematics and Computer Science Medical and Allied Healthcare Professions Medicine Modern Languages and Cultures Philosophy, Theology, and Religion Physics and Mathematics Politics, International Relations, and History Sociology, Criminology, and Psychology 2023-25 Biological and Life Sciences The Business School Business, Law, Politics, and History Drama Ecology, Biosciences, and Conservation Engineering English Geography Geography, Earth, and Environmental Sciences History Human, Sport and Health Sciences Mathematics and Computer Science Medical and Allied Healthcare Professions Medicine (Exeter based) Medicine (Cornwall based) Modern Languages and Cultures Pathways to Law Philosophy and Religious Studies Physics and Mathematics Politics and International Relations Sociology, Criminology, and Psychology 2024-26 Biosciences, Ecology and Conservation Business: Finance, Economics, Management and Entrepreneurship Earth and Environmental Sciences Engineering English, Film Studies, Visual Culture, Drama and Communications Geography Health and Care Professions: Medical Imaging and Nursing History & Archaeology, Philosophy & Religion and Classics Languages and Cultures Law (Pathways to Law) Mathematics, Computer Science and Physics Medicine (Exeter based) Medicine (Cornwall based) Politics & International Relations and Sociology & Criminology Psychology, Neuroscience, Medical and Sport & Health Sciences How to make up time National Virtual Resources Events & activities Travel bursary Wellbeing Online assessment Progress checklist Useful links Accessibility and support Parents & carers Teachers Community Exe Programme Award Day attendance Gallery Contact us ExeTalks Fitness to Practise and Criminal Convictions Guide to completing an online DBS application form Obtaining police checks for periods lived outside the UK Request a DBS check Flexible Combined Honours About What is FCH?
Applying to FCH How your degree is structured Degree title Study Abroad Employment experience in the UK or Abroad Careers and Employability Studying Prospective undergraduates Current students Online module selection Independent Study Rules for levels and languages Modules in Exeter Modules in Penryn Our people FCH staff and subject coordinators Student Staff Liaison Committee Contact us Funding and scholarships Funding database Undergraduate Scholarships and bursaries Financial support UK government grants and loans Search our funding database Postgraduate Taught Scholarships and bursaries Funding your course Search our funding database Postgraduate Research International students Future17 Information for students Information for staff Future Leaders and Innovators Graduate Scheme Graduate FAQs Staff FAQs Graduate Cohort Mentoring Graduate School of Environment and Sustainability Our programmes Marine environment Sustainable development and business Ecology, conservation and evolution Policy and governance Renewable energy Critical minerals Data science Environment and human health Executive Education Nature Positive Business: Online Masterclass Nature Positive Futures: Three Day Masterclass Our graduates University of Exeter International Study Centre.
Progression Contact International students Entry requirements English Language requirements Immigration and visas Tuition fees Scholarships Agent representatives by country/ region Students from your country/ region Algeria Argentina Bahrain Botswana Brazil Canada Chile China Colombia Democratic Republic of Congo Egypt Europe Ghana Hong Kong India Indonesia Iran Iraq Japan Jordan Kenya Kuwait Lebanon Malaysia Mauritius Morocco Myanmar Nigeria Norway Oman Peru Russia Saudi Arabia Singapore South Africa South Korea Syria Taiwan Thailand Turkey United Arab Emirates USA Vietnam Yemen Meet us in your country Support before and after you arrive Studying in Cornwall Student blogs Alumni profiles Contact us Love Exeter Love Exeter Online study Why study online Courses MA Education (Online) MSc Health Data Science (Online) MSc International Business (Online) MSc/PGCert/PGDip Medical Mycology (Online) MSc Psychedelics: Mind, Medicine, and Culture (Online) MSc Psychology (Conversion) (Online) PGCert Psychedelics: Mind, Medicine, and Culture (Online) Short courses Why study online FAQs Contact us Services for online students IT requirements and support How to apply Applicant FAQs Term dates FAQs Contact Our degree subject areas Postgraduate Research home Research topics and degrees Accountancy Arabic and Islamic Studies Archaeology Art History and Visual Culture Biological Sciences Complex Living Systems Business and Management Doctor of Business Administration Classics and Ancient History Climate Change and Environment PhD Environmental Intelligence Computer Science Drama Economics Education English Engineering Film Studies Finance Geography Geology Healthcare and Medicine History Law Mathematics Media and communications Mining and Minerals Engineering Modern Languages Physics Politics and International Relations Psychology Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) Doctor of Psychodynamic/Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy Clinical Practice (DPPClinPrac) Doctor of Forensic Psychology Renewable Energy Offshore Renewable Energy EngD Sociology, Philosophy and Anthropology Strategy and Security Theology and Religion Sport and Health Sciences Funding PhD funding Postgraduate Doctoral Loans Funded centres SWW AHRC DTP BBSRC SWBio DTP ESRC SWDTP EPSRC IDCORE NERC GW4+DTP MRC CMM MRC GW4 BioMed DTP Wellcome Trust GW4 CAT HP UKRI EI CDT Centre for Doctoral Training in Sustainable Management of UK Marine Resources (CDT SuMMeR) UKRI NERC CDT TARGET UKRI NERC CDT UNRISK EPSRC DLA Funding by faculty HASS HLS ESE Black British Researchers Studentships Exeter Paris-Saclay Studentships Fees How to apply After you apply Admission terms, conditions and policies Discussing your application Disclosure and barring Applicants privacy notice Admissions policy Research proposal Immigration and visas Entry requirements English language requirements Supporting documents Open Days and visiting Why Exeter?
Contact Sign-up to our email list Research project opportunities EPSRC Studentships CSC Scholarships Postgraduate Taught home Courses Accounting Accounting and Finance MSc Anthropology Anthrozoology MA Food Studies MA Magic and Occult Science MA Arab and Islamic Studies International Relations and Arabic MA Islamic Studies MA Kurdish Studies MA Magic and Occult Science MA Middle East Politics and International Relations MA Middle East Politics MA Middle East Studies MA Middle East Studies MRes Palestine Studies MA Politics of Energy, Infrastructure and Environment MA Archaeology Archaeology MA Magic and Occult Science MA Bioarchaeology: Zooarchaeology MSc Bioarchaeology: Forensic Anthropology MSc Bioarchaeology: Human Osteology MSc Forensic Investigations MSc Biosciences Advanced Biological Sciences MSc Advanced Biological Sciences MRes Advanced Biological Sciences and Business MSc Conservation and Biodiversity MSc Evolution, Behaviour and Ecology MSc Immunology MSc Island Biodiversity and Conservation MSc Marine Environmental Management MSc Marine Vertebrate Ecology and Conservation MSc Medical Mycology (online)  MSc Business and Management Business Analytics MSc Business and AI MSc Business and Management MSc Digital Marketing MSc Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management MSc Environmental Management MSc Global Healthcare Management MSc Human Resource Management MSc/PgDip Intercultural Communication and International Business MA International Business (Online)  MSc International Business MSc International Business and Strategy MSc International Human Resource Management MSc Management (Pathway to PhD) MRes Management MSc Marketing MSc Marketing Management MSc Master of Laws LLM Law and Business Master of Laws LLM Law and Business: Finance and Accounting Master of Laws LLM Law and Business: Management Project Management MSc Senior People Professional Apprenticeship Social Media and Digital Marketing MA Sports Management MSc Sustainable Business Management MSc Sustainable Business Management: Environment MSc Sustainable Business Management: Tourism MSc The Exeter MBA Classics and Ancient History Classics and Ancient History MA Magic and Occult Science MA Climate Change Energy Policy MSc Environment and Human Health MSc Global Sustainability Solutions MSc Sustainable Development MSc Weather and Climate Science MSc Computer Science Advanced Computer Science MSc Advanced Computer Science with Business MSc Advanced Data Science MSc Computer Science MSc Cyber Security Analytics MSc Data Science MSc Generative Artificial Intelligence MSc Human Centred Artificial Intelligence MSc Statistical Data Science MSc Creative Industries Creative Industries MA Curation: Contemporary Art and Cultural Management MA Interactive Storytelling Design: Video Games and Beyond MA International Film Business MA Publishing MA Media and Communications MA Social Media and Digital Marketing MA Theatre Practice MA Theatre Practice MFA Data Science and Analytics Advanced Data Science MSc Applied Data Science (Ecology and Evolution) MSc Applied Data Science (Environment and Sustainability) MSc Applied Data Science (Renewable Energy) MSc Applied Data Science and Modelling MSc Applied Data Science and Statistics MSc Business Analytics MSc Cyber Security Analytics MSc Data Science MSc Finance and Data Science MSc Generative Artificial Intelligence MSc Health Data Science MSc Human Centred Artificial Intelligence MSc Security and Data Science MSc Social Data Science MSc Statistical Data Science MSc Statistics MSc Drama Creative Industries MA Theatre Practice MA Theatre Practice MFA Ecology and Conservation Conservation and Biodiversity MSc Evolution, Behaviour and Ecology MSc Marine Environmental Management MSc Marine Vertebrate Ecology and Conservation MSc Economics Economics MSc Economics: Behavioural Insights MSc Economics: Development Economics MSc Economics (Pathway to PhD) MRes Financial Economics MSc Financial Technology (Fintech) MSc Money, Banking and Finance MSc Education and Teacher Training Creative Arts in Education MA DEdPsych Educational Child and Community Psychology Education (online) MA Education Leadership and Management MA Educational Research MSc Intercultural Communication and Education MA International Education MA Special Educational Needs MA Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) MEd / PG Dip / PG Cert Technology and Education Futures MA Teacher Training (PGCE) Engineering Biomedical Engineering MSc Civil Engineering MSc Digital Construction and Design MSc Electrical Power and Smart Grids MSc Engineering Business Management MSc International Supply Chain Management MSc Mechanical Engineering MSc Renewable Energy Engineering MSc Renewable Energy Engineering (Energy Storage Systems) MSc Renewable Energy Engineering (Low Carbon Transport) MSc Renewable Energy Engineering (Offshore Energy) MSc Renewable Energy Engineering (Solar Energy) MSc Renewable Energy Engineering (Wind Energy) MSc English Creative Writing MA English Literary Studies MA Interactive Storytelling Design: Video Games and Beyond MA Magic and Occult Science MA Modern and Contemporary Literature MA Publishing MA Shakespeare and Renaissance Studies MA World Literatures MA Film Creative Industries MA Film and Screen Studies MA International Film Business MA Finance Finance MSc Finance and Investment MSc Finance and Data Science MSc Finance and Management MSc Finance (Pathway to PhD) MRes Financial Technology (Fintech) MSc International Finance and Banking MSc Marketing and Financial Management MSc Money, Banking and Finance MSc Sustainable Finance and Climate Change MSc Forensics Forensic Investigations MSc Bioarchaeology: Forensic Anthropology MSc Geography Energy Policy MSc Geographical Information Science MSc Global Sustainability Solutions MSc Marine and Coastal Sustainability MSc Sustainable Development MSc Geology Exploration and Mining Geology MSc Geotechnical Engineering MSc Healthcare and Medicine Advanced Clinical Practice MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner (Degree Apprenticeship) Clinical Education MSc Environment and Human Health MSc Extreme Medicine MSc (Distance) Genomic Medicine MSc Genomic Medicine (online) MSc Genomic Medicine (Data Science) MSc Global Healthcare Management MSc Health Data Science MSc Health Data Science (Online) Health Research Methods MSc Immunology MSc Leading Clinical Research Delivery (Online) MSc Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health (MPH) (Online) Medical Imaging MSc Neuroscience MSc Practice Certificate in Independent and Supplementary Prescribing Senior Leader (Healthcare) Apprenticeship MRI: Integrated Theory and Practice Primary Care MSc Principles of Advanced Clinical Practice Principles of Supervision, Mentoring and Coaching History History MA Magic and Occult Science MA Law LLB Graduate Law Master of Laws LLM in Commercial Law Master of Laws LLM in International Law Master of Laws LLM in International Commercial Law Master of Laws LLM Master of Laws LLM Law and Business Master of Laws LLM Law and Business: Finance and Accounting Master of Laws LLM Law and Business: Management Master of Laws LLM in Law and Technology University of Law LLM Companies, Competition and Digital Markets LLM Intellectual Property and Technology LLM International Human Rights Mathematics Applied Data Science (Ecology and Evolution) MSc Applied Data Science (Environment and Sustainability) MSc Applied Data Science and Modelling MSc Applied Data Science (Renewable Energy) MSc Applied Data Science and Statistics MSc Biomedical Data and Artificial Intelligence MSc Finance and Data Science MSc Mathematical Finance MSc Mathematics MSc Statistical Data Science MSc Statistics MSc Weather and Climate Science MSc Media and Communications Media and Communications MA MA Media and Public Relations Interactive Storytelling Design: Video Games and Beyond MA Intercultural Communication and International Business MA Intercultural Communication and Education MA Intercultural Communication and Migration MA Intercultural Communication and Public Administration MA Social Media and Digital Marketing MA Mining Engineering Exploration and Mining Geology MSc Minerals Processing MSc Mining Engineering MSc/PgDip Mining Environmental Management MSc Modern Languages and Cultures Global Literatures and Cultures MA Translation Studies MA Intercultural Communication and International Business MA Intercultural Communication and Education MA Intercultural Communication and Migration MA Intercultural Communication and Public Administration MA Philosophy Philosophy MA Magic and Occult Science MA Physics and Astronomy Physics MSc Politics and International Relations Applied Security and Strategy MA Conflict, Security and Development MA Diplomacy and Foreign Policy MA Energy Policy MSc Intercultural Communication and Migration MA Intercultural Communication and Public Administration MA International Development MA International Relations MA Politics of Energy Infrastructure and Environment MA Public Administration Masters (MPA) Public Policy MSc Security and Data Science MSc Social and Political Theory MA Social Data Science MSc Social Science Research MRes Systems Thinking Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship Psychology Animal Behaviour MSc Psychology (Conversion) MSc Psychology (Conversion) (Online) MSc Psychological Research Methods MSc Psychological Therapies Practice and Research MSc Social and Organisational Psychology MSc Clinical Psychology MSc Clinical Associate in Psychology Degree Apprenticeship Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship Psychedelics: Mind, Medicine and Culture MSc Psychedelics: Mind, Medicine, and Culture (Online) PGCert Public Policy and Public Administration Public Policy MSc Public Administration Masters (MPA) Social Data Science MSc Security and Data Science MSc Systems Thinking Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship Renewable Energy Energy Policy MSc Renewable Energy Engineering MSc Security Studies Applied Security and Strategy MA Conflict, Security and Development MA Cyber Security Analytics MSc International Relations MA Security and Data Science MSc Sociology Sociology MA Social Data Science MSc Magic and Occult Science MA Sport and Health Sciences Sport and Exercise Medicine MSc Sport and Health Sciences MSc Sports Management MSc Theology and Religion Theology and Religion MA University of Exeter International Study Centre: Programmes for International Students INTO Exeter International Pre-Masters Programme Presessional English INTO Postgraduate Degree with One Term Pre-Master's for Business Get a prospectus Open Days and visiting Entry requirements English language requirements Supporting documents Applying January 2026 entry Application deadlines After you apply Terms, conditions and policies Our admissions policy Applicant FAQs About postgraduate study Term dates Tuition fees and funding Funding and scholarships Tuition fee deposit Contact Sign-up to our email list Register your interest Study Abroad Go Abroad Studying Opportunities abroad Summer Schools and Short Programmes Short Term Programmes Summer School Scholarship Fund MITACS Globalink Research Internship Research your placement Where can I study abroad?
Research handbook Resources Study and work abroad Buddy Scheme Study Abroad Talks When you return Fees and Funding Tuition fees Turing Scheme Scholarships Apply FAQs Contact us Global Opportunities Team Academic Coordinators Global Development Advisors Book an appointment Study Abroad programmes Choosing your campus Student life Apply Entry requirements Tuition fees and scholarships Visa advice Application timeline Module selection Exeter Campuses Penryn Campus FAQs Contact us Partners Arrival information Study Information Summer programmes Exeter Technology Entrepreneurship Bootcamp Teacher training Primary PGCE PGCE Primary (3-7) PGCE Primary (5-11) Secondary PGCE Secondary English Secondary Geography Secondary History Secondary Maths Secondary Modern Foreign Languages Secondary Physical Education Secondary Science (Biology) Secondary Science (Chemistry) Secondary Science (Physics) Secondary Science (Biology with Physical Education)) Post Compulsory Education Open Days and visiting Applying Subject Knowledge Enhancement Courses (SKE) Interviews Tuition fees & finance Ted Wragg awards Term dates Accommodation Partnership with schools Contact us Offer holders Your offer Suitability to Teach Required documentation Registration Placements Useful information Pre-course information and tasks Primary pre-course tasks Secondary pre-course tasks Contact us Teachers and Advisers Events About Make a request Resources Supporting your students Black History month Work experience Working with Further Education Colleges Careers Insight Week In Conversation Undergraduate home Courses - 2026 entry Accounting and Finance Accounting and Business BSc Accounting and Finance BSc Finance BSc Finance: Business Management BSc Finance: Data Science BSc Finance: Investment Banking BSc Financial Services Professional Degree Apprenticeship Anthropology Anthropology BA Archaeology and Anthropology BA Sociology and Anthropology BA Religion, Culture and Society BA Arab and Islamic Studies Arab and Islamic Studies Undergraduate MArabic Arabic and Politics BA Middle East Studies BA Modern Languages and Arabic BA Archaeology Archaeology BA Archaeological Science BSc Archaeology with Forensic Science BSc Archaeology and Anthropology BA Ancient History and Archaeology BA History and Archaeology BA Art History & Visual Culture Art History & Visual Culture BA Art History & Visual Culture and Classical Studies BA Art History & Visual Culture and Drama BA Art History & Visual Culture and English BA Art History & Visual Culture and Film & Television Studies BA Art History & Visual Culture and History BA Art History & Visual Culture and Modern Languages BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and Modern Languages BA Biomedical and Medical Sciences Biomedical Sciences BSc Biosciences Animal Behaviour BSc Animal Behaviour MSc Biochemistry BSc Biochemistry MSci Biological Sciences BSc Biological Sciences MSci Biomedical Sciences BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology MSci Evolutionary Biology BSc Evolutionary Biology MSci Marine Biology BSc Marine Biology MSci Zoology BSc Zoology MSci Business and Management Accounting and Business BSc Bachelor of Business and Laws BBL (Cornwall) Business BSc (Cornwall) Business Analytics BSc Business and Environment BSc (Cornwall) Business and Management BSc Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship Fast track Finance BSc International Business and Modern Languages BA Law with Business LLB (Cornwall) Marketing and Management BSc Politics and Business BSc (Cornwall) Classics and Ancient History Ancient History BA Ancient History and Archaeology BA Classics BA Classical Studies BA Classical Studies and English BA Classical Studies and Modern Languages BA Classical Studies and Philosophy BA Classical Studies and Religion BA Art History & Visual Culture and Classical Studies BA Modern Languages and Latin BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures Comparative Literatures and Cultures BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and Modern Languages BA Computer Science Computer Science BSc Computer Science MSci Computer Science with Foundation Year BSc Computer Science and Mathematics BSc Digital Media Technology BSc (at ZJUT) Computer Science and Mathematics MSci Data Science BSc Data Science MSci Digital and Technology Solutions Degree Apprenticeship Criminology Criminology BSc Crime and Data Science BSc Sociology and Criminology BA Data Science Data Science BSc Data Science MSci Crime and Data Science BSc Social Data Science BSc Data Science with Foundation Year BSc Data Science BSc (at ZJUT) Drama Drama BA Drama and Film & Television Studies BA Art History & Visual Culture and Drama BA English and Drama BA Earth Sciences Engineering Geology and Geotechnics BSc Engineering Geology and Geotechnics MSci Environmental Geoscience BSc Environmental Geoscience MSci Environmental Engineering BEng Environmental Engineering MEng Environmental Science BSc Environmental Science MSci Geography BA Geography BA/BSc Geography BSc Geography with Applied Geographical Information Systems (GIS) BSc Geology BSc Geology MSci Marine Science BSc Mining Engineering BEng Mining Engineering MEng Resource and Exploration Geology BSc Resource and Exploration Geology MSci Ecology and Conservation Animal Behaviour BSc Animal Behaviour MSci Conservation Biology and Ecology BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology MSci Evolutionary Biology BSc Evolutionary Biology MSci Global Sustainability BA/BSc Marine Biology BSc Marine Biology MSci Zoology BSc Zoology MSci Economics Business Economics BSc Economics BSc Economics and Finance BSc Economics and Politics BSc Economics with Econometrics BSc Engineering Biomedical Engineering BEng Biomedical Engineering MEng Biomedical Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Chemical Engineering BEng Chemical Engineering MEng Chemical Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Civil Engineering BEng Civil Engineering MEng Civil Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship Engineering BEng Engineering MEng Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering MEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Engineering and Entrepreneurship BEng Engineering and Entrepreneurship MEng Engineering and Management BEng Engineering and Management MEng Environmental Engineering BEng Environmental Engineering MEng Environmental Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Mechanical Engineering BEng Mechanical Engineering MEng Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Renewable Energy Engineering BEng Renewable Energy Engineering MEng Renewable Energy Engineering with Foundation year BEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence BEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence MEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence with Foundation Year BEng Systems Engineering BEng Systems Engineering MEng Systems Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Energy and Environmental Engineering BEng (at ZJUT) English English BA English and Creative Writing BA English and Drama BA English and Film & Television Studies BA English and History BA English and Media & Communications BA English and Modern Languages BA English with Study in North America BA Art History & Visual Culture and English BA Classical Studies and English BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and Modern Languages BA Environmental Humanities Environmental Humanities BA Global Sustainability BA/BSc Environmental Science Business and Environment BSc (Cornwall) Environmental Science BSc Environmental Science MSci Geography BA/BSc Global Sustainability BA/BSc Marine Science BSc Film Studies Film & Television Studies BA Film & Television Studies and Media & Communications BA Film & Television Studies and Modern Languages BA Art History & Visual Culture and Film & Television Studies BA Drama and Film & Television Studies BA Flexible Combined Honours Flexible Combined Honours BA/BSc (Exeter) Geography Environmental Science BSc Environmental Science MSci Geography BA (Exeter) Geography BSc (Exeter) Geography BA/BSc (Cornwall) Geography with Applied GIS BSc (Exeter) Global Sustainability BA/BSc Marine Science BSc Politics and Geography BA (Cornwall) Geology Engineering Geology and Geotechnics BSc Engineering Geology and Geotechnics MSci Environmental Geoscience BSc Environmental Geoscience MSci Geology BSc Geology MSci Resource and Exploration Geology BSc Resource and Exploration Geology MSci History History BA (Exeter) History BA (Cornwall) History and Ancient History BA History and Archaeology BA History and Business BA (Cornwall) History and Geography BA (Cornwall) History and International Relations BA (Cornwall) History and Politics BA (Cornwall) History and Modern Languages BA Art History & Visual Culture and History BA English and History BA Philosophy and History BA Law Law LLB Law LLB with Professional Placement Law with European Study LLB English Law and French Law LLB Law with Business LLB (Cornwall) Bachelor of Business and Laws BBL (Cornwall) Graduate Law LLB Dual LLB/JD with the Chinese Uni of Hong Kong Law LLB: for Brickfields Asia College students Liberal Arts Liberal Arts BA Mathematics Mathematics BSc Mathematics MMath Mathematics with Foundation Year BSc Mathematics (Climate Science) MSci Mathematics (Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics) MSci Mathematics (Mathematical Biology) MSci Mathematics and Data Science BSc Mathematics and Data Science MSci Mathematics with Accounting BSc Mathematics with Accounting MSci Mathematics with Economics BSc Mathematics with Economics MSci Mathematics with Finance BSc Mathematics with Finance MSci Mathematics with Management BSc Mathematics with Management MSci Computer Science and Mathematics BSc Computer Science and Mathematics MSci Media and Communications Media and Communications BA Media & Communications and Modern Languages BA English and Media and Communications BA Film & Television Studies and Media and Communications BA Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) BSc Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) MSci Diagnostic Radiographer Degree Apprenticeship Medicine Medicine BMBS Mining Engineering Mining Engineering BEng (Full-time) Mining Engineering MEng Mining Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Mining Engineering BEng (Part-time) Mine Management (Degree Apprenticeship) Modern Languages and Cultures Modern Languages BA Modern Languages and Arabic BA Modern Languages and Latin BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and Modern Languages BA Art History & Visual Culture and Modern Languages BA Classical Studies and Modern Languages BA English and Modern Languages BA Film & Television Studies and Modern Languages BA History and Modern Languages BA International Business and Modern Languages BA International Relations and Modern Languages BA Media and Communications and Modern Languages BA Philosophy and Modern Languages BA Politics and Modern Languages BA Sociology and Modern Languages BA Natural Sciences Natural Sciences BSc Natural Sciences MSci Natural Sciences with Foundation Year BSc Neuroscience Neuroscience BSc Nursing Adult Nursing BSc Nursing MSci Philosophy Philosophy BA Philosophy and History BA Philosophy and Modern Languages BA Philosophy and Politics BA Philosophy and Sociology BA Philosophy, Religion and Ethics BA Classical Studies and Philosophy BA Politics, Philosophy and Economics BA Religion, Culture and Society BA Physics and Astronomy Physics BSc Physics MPhys Physics with Foundation Year BSc Physics with Astrophysics BSc Physics with Astrophysics MPhys Physics with Biophysics BSc Physics with Biophysics MPhys Physics with Quantum Technology BSc Physics with Quantum Technology MPhys Theoretical Physics BSc Theoretical Physics MPhys Politics and International Relations Politics BA Global Politics BA (Cornwall) International Relations BA International Relations and Modern Languages BA Politics and Business BSc (Cornwall) Politics and International Relations BSc Politics and International Relations BA (Cornwall) Politics and Geography BA (Cornwall) Politics and Modern Languages BA Politics and Sociology BA Politics, Philosophy and Economics BA Arabic and Politics BA Economics and Politics BSc Global Sustainability BA/BSc (Cornwall) History and International Relations BA (Cornwall) History and Politics BA (Cornwall) Psychology Applied Psychology (Clinical) MSci Psychology BSc Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner Apprenticeship Renewable Energy Renewable Energy Engineering BEng Renewable Energy Engineering MEng Renewable Energy Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Sociology Sociology BA Sociology BSc Social Data Science BSc Sociology and Anthropology BA Sociology and Criminology BA Sociology and Modern Languages BA Crime and Data Science BSc Religion, Culture and Society BA Sport and Health Sciences Exercise and Sport Sciences BSc Theology and Religion Theology and Religion BA Religion, Culture and Society BA Classical Studies and Religion BA Philosophy, Religion and Ethics BA University of Exeter International Study Centre: Programmes for International Students Foundation International Year One Courses - 2025 entry Accounting and Finance Accounting and Business BSc Accounting and Finance BSc Finance BSc Finance: Business Management BSc Finance: Data Science BSc Finance: Investment Banking BSc Financial Services Professional Degree Apprenticeship Anthropology Anthropology BA Archaeology and Anthropology BA Sociology and Anthropology BA Religion, Culture and Society BA Arab and Islamic Studies Arab and Islamic Studies MArabic Arabic and Politics BA Middle East Studies BA Modern Languages and Arabic BA Archaeology Ancient History and Archaeology BA Archaeological Science BSc Archaeology with Forensic Science BSc Archaeology BA Archaeology and Anthropology BA Art History & Visual Culture Art History & Visual Culture BA Art History & Visual Culture and History BA Art History & Visual Culture and Classical Studies BA Art History & Visual Culture and Drama BA Art History & Visual Culture and English BA Art History & Visual Culture and Film & Television Studies BA Art History & Visual Culture and Modern Languages BA Comparative Literature and Cultures BA Biomedical and Medical Sciences Biomedical Sciences BSc Sport and Exercise Medical Sciences BSc Biosciences Animal Behaviour BSc Animal Behaviour MSc Biochemistry BSc Biochemistry MSci Biological and Medicinal Chemistry BSc Biological and Medicinal Chemistry MSci Biological Sciences BSc Biological Sciences MSci Biomedical Sciences BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology MSci Evolutionary Biology BSc Evolutionary Biology MSci Marine Biology BSc Marine Biology MSci Zoology BSc Zoology MSci Business and Management Accounting and Business BSc Bachelor of Business and Laws BBL (Cornwall) Business BSc (Cornwall) Business Analytics BSc Business and Environment BSc (Cornwall) Business and Management BSc Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship Fast track Finance BSc International Business and Modern Languages BA Law with Business LLB (Cornwall) Marketing and Management BSc Politics and Management BSc (Cornwall) Classics and Ancient History Ancient History BA Ancient History and Archaeology BA Art History & Visual Culture and Classical Studies BA Classics BA Classical Studies BA Classical Studies and English BA Classical Studies and Modern Languages BA Classical Studies and Philosophy BA Classical Studies and Religion BA Computer Science Computer Science BSc Computer Science MSci Computer Science with Foundation Year BSc Computer Science and Mathematics BSc Computer Science and Mathematics MSci Data Science BSc Data Science MSci Digital and Technology Solutions Degree Apprenticeship Criminology Criminology BSc Crime and Data Science BSc Sociology and Criminology BA Data Science Data Science BSc Data Science MSci Crime and Data Science BSc Social Data Science BSc Data Science with Foundation Year BSc Drama Art History & Visual Culture and Drama BA Drama BA Drama and Film & Television Studies BA English and Drama BA Earth Sciences Engineering Geology and Geotechnics BSc Engineering Geology and Geotechnics MSci Environmental Geoscience BSc Environmental Geoscience MSci Environmental Engineering BEng Environmental Engineering MEng Environmental Science BSc Environmental Science MSci Geography BA Geography BA/BSc Geography BSc Geography with Applied Geographical Information Systems (GIS) BSc Geology BSc Geology MSci Marine Science BSc Mining Engineering BEng Mining Engineering MEng Resource and Exploration Geology BSc Resource and Exploration Geology MSci Ecology and Conservation Animal Behaviour BSc Animal Behaviour MSci Conservation Biology and Ecology BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology MSci Evolutionary Biology BSc Evolutionary Biology MSci Marine Biology BSc Marine Biology MSci Zoology BSc Zoology MSci Economics Business Economics BSc Economics BSc Economics and Finance BSc Economics and Politics BSc Economics with Econometrics BSc Engineering Biomedical Engineering BEng Biomedical Engineering MEng Biomedical Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Chemical Engineering BEng Chemical Engineering MEng Chemical Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Civil Engineering BEng Civil Engineering MEng Civil Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship Engineering BEng Engineering MEng Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering MEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Engineering and Entrepreneurship BEng Engineering and Entrepreneurship MEng Engineering and Management BEng Engineering and Management MEng Environmental Engineering BEng Environmental Engineering MEng Environmental Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Mechanical Engineering BEng Mechanical Engineering MEng Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Renewable Energy Engineering BEng Renewable Energy Engineering MEng Renewable Energy Engineering with Foundation year BEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence BEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence MEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence with Foundation Year BEng Systems Engineering BEng Systems Engineering MEng Systems Engineering with Foundation Year BEng English Art History & Visual Culture and English BA Classical Studies and English BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and Modern Languages BA English BA English and Creative Writing BA English and Drama BA English and Film & Television Studies BA English and History BA English and Media & Communications BA English and Modern Languages BA English with Study in North America BA Environmental Humanities Environmental Humanities BA Environmental Science Business and Environment BSc (Cornwall) Environmental Science BSc Environmental Science MSci Marine Science BSc Geography BA/BSc Film Studies Art History & Visual Culture and Film & Television Studies BA Drama and Film & Television Studies BA Film & Television Studies BA Film & Television Studies and Media & Communications BA Film & Television Studies and Modern Languages BA Flexible Combined Honours Flexible Combined Honours BA/BSc (Exeter) Geography Environmental Science BSc Environmental Science MSci Geography BA (Exeter) Geography BSc (Exeter) Geography BA/BSc (Cornwall) Geography with Applied GIS BSc (Exeter) Marine Science BSc Politics and Geography BA (Cornwall) Geology Engineering Geology and Geotechnics BSc Engineering Geology and Geotechnics MSci Environmental Geoscience BSc Environmental Geoscience MSci Geology BSc Geology MSci Resource and Exploration Geology BSc Resource and Exploration Geology MSci History Art History & Visual Culture and History BA English and History BA History BA (Exeter) History BA (Cornwall) History and Ancient History BA History and Archaeology BA History and Business BA (Cornwall) History and Geography BA (Cornwall) History and International Relations BA (Cornwall) History and Modern Languages BA History and Politics BA (Cornwall) Law Bachelor of Business and Laws BBL (Cornwall) Dual LLB/JD with the Chinese Uni of Hong Kong English Law and French Law LLB Graduate Law LLB Law LLB Law LLB with Professional Placement Law with European Study LLB Law with Business LLB (Cornwall) Law LLB: for Brickfields Asia College students Liberal Arts Liberal Arts BA Mathematics Mathematics BSc Mathematics MMath Mathematics with Foundation Year BSc Mathematics (Climate Science) MSci Mathematics (Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics) MSci Mathematics (Mathematical Biology) MSci Mathematics and Data Science BSc Mathematics and Data Science MSci Mathematics with Accounting BSc Mathematics with Accounting MSci Mathematics with Economics BSc Mathematics with Economics MSci Mathematics with Finance BSc Mathematics with Finance MSci Mathematics with Management BSc Mathematics with Management MSci Computer Science and Mathematics BSc Computer Science and Mathematics MSci Media and Communications Media and Communications BA Media & Communications and Modern Languages BA English and Media and Communications BA Film & Television Studies and Media and Communications BA Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) BSc Diagnostic Radiographer Degree Apprenticeship Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) MSci Medicine Medicine BMBS Mining Engineering Mining Engineering BEng (Full-time) Mining Engineering MEng Mining Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Mining Engineering BEng (Part-time) Mine Management (Degree Apprenticeship) Modern Languages and Cultures Art History & Visual Culture and Modern Languages BA Classical Studies and Modern Languages BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and Modern Languages BA English and Modern Languages BA Film & Television Studies and Modern Languages BA History and Modern Languages BA International Business and Modern Languages BA International Relations and Modern Languages BA Media and Communications and Modern Languages BA Modern Languages BA Modern Languages and Arabic BA Modern Languages and Latin BA Philosophy and Modern Languages BA Politics and Modern Languages BA Sociology and Modern Languages BA Natural Sciences Natural Sciences BSc Natural Sciences MSci Natural Sciences with Foundation Year BSc Neuroscience Neuroscience BSc Nursing Adult Nursing BSc Nursing MSci Philosophy Classical Studies and Philosophy BA Philosophy BA Philosophy and History BA Philosophy and Modern Languages BA Philosophy and Politics BA Philosophy and Sociology BA Philosophy, Religion and Ethics BA Religion, Culture and Society BA Physics and Astronomy Physics BSc Physics MPhys Physics with Foundation Year BSc Physics with Astrophysics BSc Physics with Astrophysics MPhys Physics with Biophysics BSc Physics with Biophysics MPhys Physics with Quantum Technology BSc Physics with Quantum Technology MPhys Theoretical Physics BSc Theoretical Physics MPhys Politics and International Relations Arabic and Politics BA Global Politics BA (Cornwall) International Relations BA International Relations and Modern Languages BA Politics BA Politics and International Relations BSc Politics and Geography BA (Cornwall) Politics and International Relations BA (Cornwall) Politics and Modern Languages BA Politics and Sociology BA Politics, Philosophy and Economics BA Politics and Management BSc (Cornwall) Psychology Applied Psychology (Clinical) MSci Psychology BSc Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner Apprenticeship Renewable Energy Renewable Energy Engineering BEng Renewable Energy Engineering MEng Renewable Energy Engineering with Foundation Year BEng Sociology Crime and Data Science BSc Social Data Science BSc Sociology BA Sociology BSc Sociology and Anthropology BA Sociology and Criminology BA Sociology and Modern Languages BA Religion, Culture and Society BA Sport and Health Sciences Exercise and Sport Sciences BSc Theology and Religion Classical Studies and Religion BA Religion, Culture and Society BA Philosophy, Religion and Ethics BA Theology and Religion BA INTO: Programmes for International Students Foundation International Year One Get a prospectus Open Days and visiting Entry requirements UK academic qualifications International academic qualifications Contextual offers What is a contextual offer?
English language requirements Applying How to apply Contextual offers Application timeline After you apply Extenuating circumstances Access Exeter Alternative qualifications Advice for parents and supporters Applying as a Home Educated Student Discover University Admissions terms, conditions and policies Our admissions policy Applicant complaints policy and procedure Admissions Policy Group (APG) Discussing your application with others Equal opportunities policy Admissions interview policy Students under 18 Tuition fees and funding Scholarships and funding Living costs Academic study Flexible study Opportunities abroad Degree Apprenticeships Learning and studying resources University level study Spend a day with us Contact Frequently asked questions Sign-up to our email list Your university experience Exeter Innovation About us About us Partnerships in focus IP policy Innovation support Recruit and develop talent Business support Work with an expert Our expertise Data science and AI Future and emerging technologies Health, lifesciences and wellbeing Sustainability and environment Creative economy Defence, security and resilience Responsible business Energy Futures and Engineering Insights and impact Green Futures Solutions Let’s work together

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/open-days/undergraduate:
Our next Undergraduate Open Days are open for bookings.
Click 'Book your Place Now' below to sign up to the event you would like to attend.
See: Which campus should I visit?
Saturday 4 October 2025 Streatham Campus, Exeter St Luke's Campus, Exeter
Book your place now »
Saturday 11 October 2025 Penryn Campus, Cornwall
Saturday 25 October 2025 Streatham Campus, Exeter St Luke's Campus, Exeter
The University of Exeter is spread over three campuses: Streatham and St Luke's campuses in Exeter, and the Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
You should attend the Open Day for the main campus where the course you are interested in is taught.
This information can be found in the summary panel at the top of every course page .
Some of our courses are taught at more than one campus but have different syllabuses, so please check carefully.
Read more about our campuses .
Alternatively, you can Ask the pop-up ChatBot in the right-hand corner of this page.
Our Discover University platform contains a range of resources that have been created for students who are thinking about going to university.
We run online and in-person events throughout the year to give you tips and advice on applying to university and insight into life as a student.
You can keep up to date by Following our Discover University Facebook page .
Streatham Campus is one of the most beautiful in the country, with lakes, parkland, woodland and gardens.
Located in the east of Exeter's city centre, St Luke's is home to Sport and Health Sciences, the Medical School and the Academy of Nursing.
Situated in the coastal community of Penryn, with a vibrant social atmosphere and stunning coastline on the doorstep.
Some of our courses are taught at more than one campus but the syllabuses are different.
Please check the course page carefully before booking an open day.
Booking will open in Spring 2025.
Register your interest to be first to hear when bookings open, and be notified of future events.
Register here

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/open-days/postgraduate:
Our Postgraduate Open Days are the ideal opportunity to explore what we can offer you as a postgraduate student.
You'll have the chance to visit our campuses, meet with current students and staff and learn more about what it's like to study at Exeter.
We're running a series of Explore Postgraduate Cornwall events on our Penryn Campus in Cornwall which will enable you to speak with current staff and students and take a tour of our beautiful campus.
Book a place on an Explore Postgraduate Cornwall event now .
Have a question about a postgraduate course?
Our academic departments welcome enquiries.
Please use our online form to get in touch with a particular department or contact us on 01392 727272 .
Check the course webpage for the degree you're interested in to see which campus it's taught at.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/studyabroad:
Study Abroad
Study Abroad at Exeter
Go Abroad

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/teachers:
Teachers and advisers
Discover University Webinars: Monthly online webinars on a variety of topics such as Russell Group applications, personal statements and subject specific sessions.
Mondays 6-7pm.
Join us for our In Conversation Live sessions - Dr Karl Devincenzi and Dr Katherine Lloyd Clark explore topical issues within higher education.
Welcome to the University of Exeter’s teachers’ and advisers’ pages.
We work with schools and colleges across the UK, offering a selection of activities and programmes encouraging students to consider higher education institutions, such as the University of Exeter, as a realistic and achievable goal.
We also offer a selection of events and resources to enrich subject specific curriculum delivery and to help participants to develop skills and knowledge in support of their in-school attainment.
There is a dedicated member of staff working with schools in each region across the UK to ensure that your students receive relevant guidance and advice to make informed decisions about their future educational pathways.
If you are a student, please visit our Discover University webpage.
This is full of resources and event listings to help you in your journey to Higher Education.
We have a range of in-person and online events for students including subject-specific sessions.
We also run events for teachers and advisers.
We can deliver a range of workshops and presentations in school and online for KS5, as well as attend Higher Education fairs.
Key admissions information and updates, as well as resources for subject-specific curriculum enrichment.
Further resources from across the University of Exeter
Exeter Scholars
Exeter Scholars for Year 10-13 Students
Exeter Scholars is a free programme which gives eligible students the opportunity to find out more about university, develop a passion for a chosen subject, and gain experience of student life at the University of Exeter.
It is offered for students in the South West and nationally, with pathways starting in Year 10 and Year 12.
Support for underrepresented groups
Widening participation
We believe all students should have equal and fair access to Higher Education.
We also recognise that studying at university isn’t as straightforward for everyone, and depending on financial, personal or ethnic background, students may face additional challenges in both accessing Higher Education and throughout their studies.
Open Days and campus tours
In person campus tours run each week across our three campuses.
We also have 360 virtual tours if you’re unable to visit us in person.
Working with Further Education Colleges
At the University of Exeter, we are proud to work in close partnership with Further Education (FE) colleges across the UK.
Join us on X
Join us on Facebook
Join us on Youtube

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying/accessexeter/parents:
The decision to go to university is a big step for students, and finding the most suitable course and place to study can be a daunting task.
We recognise that parents, guardians, carers and relatives can all play a vital role in choosing and applying for university.
To support families during this process, whether you have some or no experience of higher education, we've gathered the key information that you will need to help guide a young person through the application journey.
Helping them to make informed choices that align with their goals, while ensuring they feel secure, confident, and prepared for the journey ahead.
Our online Discover University platform provides information, advice and guidance for prospective students.
We have lots of free resources covering areas such as student life and applying to university.
We also host regular online events where students can find out more about university.
We encourage parents and supporters to engage through our regular communications and webinars, which will keep you informed about the latest developments, opportunities, and resources at the university.
Sign up to receive our dedicated parent and supporter newsletter to be kept up to date with events and information to help support your student's journey to university.
We offer a range of sessions throughout the year that are designed for parents and supporters.
These webinars are delivered by our staff and also currents students.
All session details and booking links are available below.
Upcoming supporter events
Upcoming Parent and Supporter Webinars
Join staff from the University of Exeter for sessions about: supporting your child's application to University, financing a University degree, moving from school to University and more.
Session Title
Description
Date and Time
Booking link
Applying to University
An introduction to UCAS, this session will explain the process and the timelines involved in making an application.
It will highlight ways that parents and guardians can support their student.
For supporters of 2026 applicants
24th September 2025
Book here
Choosing the University of Exeter Q&A
An overview of the University of Exeter: information about our campuses, courses, teaching, student support and community.
There will also be lots of opportunities to ask us any questions about the application process and ask current student about their experiences.
15th October 2025
What's next after your application
The session covers the key steps in the application process, including how universities make offers and what to do after receiving one.
We will also explain the next stage in decision-making and how to prepare for making your final choices.
10th December 2025
What is Higher Education?
Whether your young person chooses an academic or work-based route, gaining higher-level qualifications and training can boost their future prospects.
This session will cover the basics of higher education and university-level study, explaining key opportunities, terminology, and timelines to consider.
We will also signpost further resources to help you explore ways to support your young person.
For supporters of 2027 applicants
21 January 2026
Financing Higher Education
Cost is one of the biggest concerns for parents or carers of prospective university students.
This session will provide an explanation of the Student Finance application process (with a focus on those who live in the UK) and outline of the additional financial support available.
11th February 2026
Degree Apprenticeship
For those interested in learning more about degree apprenticeships as an alternative higher education pathway, this session will cover:
For supporters of 2026/2027 applicants
18th March 2026
Becoming a University Student
In this session we discuss what students should expect from their first few weeks as a university student.
Including an overview of the support services available.
Enabling parents and supporters to help prepare their young person for the transition to university.
15th April 2026
Supporting an Application to University
29th April 2026
Making the Most of an Open Day
This session will explain what to expect at an Open Day.
We will explore how to plan your visit, what to look out for, and the key questions to consider.
20th May 2026
Understanding Contextual and Alternative Offers
Join this session to find out what contextual offers are and why they exist.
Our staff will explain who might be eligible for a contextual offer, why they are offered, and the process of receiving one.
We will also provide insights into the support available to young people with a contextual or alternative offer
17th June 2026
Arriving and Thriving at University
15th July 2026
Preparing for Results Day
Guiding you through results day preparation.
Whether your young person has secured their place or is considering alternative options through Clearing, we’ll discuss the next steps.
5th August 2026
We are also running a series of webinars for Year 12 students throughout the academic year.
To find all the dates and details, and sign up, please visit our Discover University page.
For our Open Days and campus based events please visit Open Days and visiting .
Download our Parent and Supporters guide for information on supporting your young person.
The resources below have been created specifically for parents and supporters.
For student advice please visit Discover University
Making a decision
The benefits of Higher Education (HE) are well evidenced.
As well as increased earning potential, gaining a degree is a significant achievement that will have lifelong benefits including better general and mental health, greater life satisfaction, less exposure to unemployment and increased life expectancy.
Success at HE level is largely influenced by what and where they study, so making the right choice is important and research is key in helping to make the right decision.
» Higher Education Guide » ‌ Parents and Carers Guide (NSSW)
There can be several important influencing factors when considering which university is right, such as location, league table results, teaching standards and facilities.
The UCAS website is the best place to start, and they have a dedicated information page for parents, guardians and carers
Advice for parents, guardians and carers .
With over 35,000 courses on offer at hundreds of UK universities it can be quite a daunting task choosing the right one.
Narrow down the options by establishing some basic facts: single or joint honours, teaching methods, assessment methods, duration, entry requirements and accreditation.
» View our programme pages for more information
Once a student has narrowed down their options to around 10 universities (or less), booking onto an open day is the best way to find out if the university and the courses available are what they are looking for.
See the Open Day video below for more information about what to expect.
» Book on to an Open Day
If you live overseas and are unable to join an Open Day, please make a booking for a campus tour or take a virtual tour of our campuses.
As well as studying a subject a student is passionate about, getting a great job after graduating is one of the main reasons for going to university.
We help our students acquire the skills and experience to compete in an increasingly international job market or pursue further study.
» Find out more about employability
Application Process
All students need to apply through UCAS with the application process beginning in the September before the student intends to start their course.
Once submitted progress on that application is monitored online through the UCAS Hub
At the University of Exeter, we believe in giving students from all backgrounds the opportunity to benefit from Higher Education.
The cost of attending university can be a common area of concern for parents and guardians of prospective students, however there are funding and support packages available to help towards tuition fees and living costs.
The majority of UK students fund their studies through the student loans system: they do not need to repay anything up front and repayments after graduation will be linked to their salary so that it is manageable.
» Find out more about the application process on our applying pages
Contextual offers
When we review an application, we take into consideration the context in which applicants have achieved their academic qualifications.
If candidates meet certain eligibility criteria, we may make an offer that is lower than our typical entry requirements.
This is called a contextual offer.
For further details, and to assess eligibility, see What is a contextual offer?
Is this the first time someone in your family has considered applying to university?
If this is the first time someone in your family has considered applying to university it can be a bit overwhelming getting your head around everything.
Next Steps South West i s a great introduction to what you need to thing about and consider.
What happens once my student has applied?
Once we receive applications via UCAS our admissions team will review an application.
To see the process we follow, and what happens next, look at After You Apply .
Further details and our full admissions policy are available here
What to do I do if I want to speak on my student's behalf about their application?
We are unable to discuss any aspect of a student application with a third party unless we receive confirmation this has been approved by the person making the application.
There is the option for those who apply via UCAS to set up someone as a nominated decision-maker (NDM).
For further information about how to do this either pre-application, or during the process, please see Discussing your application for guidance.
My student is applying from outside the UK, is the process the same?
It will depend on the country from which they are applying.
Please use the resources designed for our International Students where there is the ability to assess entry criteria by country
Financial help
The cost of attending university can be a common area of concern for parents and guardians of prospective students, however, there are funding and support packages available to help towards tuition fees and living costs.
The majority of UK students fund their studies through the student loans system: they do not need to pay anything up front and repayments after graduation will be linked to their salary, so that it is manageable.
» Fees & funding
» GOV.UK Student Finance » Money Saving Expert
FAQs
Can we afford university?
Financing university study can be a concern, so it is useful to look at it early.
Tuition fees cost up to £9,250 a year (for UK students) the students have to factor in their living expenses, which can vary substantially dependent on their needs.
Depending on your income, supporters can be expected to pay a contribution towards their student's living costs when they study.
There is no official guidance for what this contribution should be.
How much loan your student receives depends on your household income.
Use the government calculators early to get a benchmark of the support your student can expect to receive.
When should we be applying for finance?
Applications can be made after a UCAS application, but prior to receiving results and confirming a university offer or place.
Your student can make a provisional application for student finance from early Spring in the year in which they are due to start in September.
The student doesn't need to have made their firm choice before they apply for finance.
What finance will my student need?
If this is the first time your student has lived by themselves, they might be lacking in some of the budgeting skills they need for independent living.
Before they start, they should try to look at the societies and course costs they may have, as well as the large expenses such as accommodation and subsistence.
Many students complete part-time work, details of how to find out about working and studying can be found via our Careers Zone
Welfare and safety
We welcome students from all different backgrounds and walks of life, and we offer a wide range of support to ensure that your child gets the most from their university experience.
The university's student support services include specialist teams providing academic, financial and wellbeing support for students , so that they feel included and able to progress with their studies despite any obstacles they may face.
The Students' Guild in Exeter and the Students' Union in Cornwall are valuable sources of support, as are:
You can also be reassured that both our Exeter and Cornwall campuses are in areas considered to be some of the safest in the UK.
With low crime rates, stunning scenery, outstanding quality of life, and increasingly excellent economic prospects, the South West has cemented its reputation as one of the very best places to live, work, and study.
» Student support emergency contact numbers
If you have serious concerns about your child's safety or wellbeing, please contact our Estate Patrol Security (Exeter Campuses) or Penryn Campus Safety and Support (available 24/7 on 01326 255875).
They will pass the information to Student Support staff at the appropriate campus who will, where appropriate, investigate your concerns.
Please note, that as students are adults, we must respect their privacy and confidentiality and so, unless they give us their consent, we will not be able to provide you with any feedback.
When deciding which university to go to, it is important that your student considers and researches the right place to live.
The University of Exeter guarantees an offer of accommodation to all new first year undergraduates who make an accommodation application by the deadline.
Being in university accommodation enable students to make friends, meet diverse people and meet students studying on different degrees.
Resident Mentors in University accommodation also provide a wellbeing safety net for student living in their accommodation.
We offer a wide range of accommodation, to suit all budgets and tastes.
Students might go for catered halls so they can hand over the responsibility for cooking over to our professional catering team, or go for the flexibility of self-catered accommodation, in which case they will need to budget for their weekly shop and eating out.
There are also private accommodation options in both Exeter and Penryn.
» Student accommodation
When do students apply for accommodation?
If your student has Exeter as their FIRM choice, they will be able to apply online for accommodation from the middle of April in their year of entry, ready for arrival in September.
What is my responsibility as their parent or supporter?
Applications to University managed housing are completed by the student.
If they are choosing private accommodation there can be requirements from parents and supporters in relation to being a guarantor for their accommodation contract.
There is more guidance about making the move to university managed housing for parents and supporters, including information about terms and conditions of tenancy agreements.
After first year, students will, in the majority of cases, move out into accommodation not provided by the University.
There are further details about researching accommodation options after first year in Exeter and Cornwall .
Can my student bring their car to campus?
Car parking on all our campuses is severely restricted and charges applying, therefore, students are discouraged from bringing a car to university.
Campus car parking permits will not be issues to students in catered halls, in self-catering accommodation, or in private accommodation, within a certain distance from the campus, with the exception of blue badge holders or unless there is a medical reason which makes a permit necessary.
Commuting to university
Alternatively, living at home may be your student's preferred option if they live within commuting distance of the University.
If your student is looking to commute to campus, car parking permits may be available depending on the distance travelled.
To find out more look at our car parking pages.
Students can apply for a student railcard, these are traditionally designed for 16-25 and 26-30 age brackets, but students of any age can have a 16-25 railcard if they are a full time student.
What happens on results day?
Results day can be a stressful time, but whatever the outcome, it's important to stay calm, and we have a range of ways applicants can contact us on the day.
Encourage your student to think about the following on the day:
If your student has gained the grades they need, then they do not have to do anything initially, and we will be in touch with further information to confirm their place
If their grades have not been achieved, then there are range of options:
Preparing to leave home
There are a number of things parents or guardians can do to help their child prepare to leave home and begin university.
The links below hold a wealth of information and things to think about.
Advice on budgeting for rent, food, bills, shopping and socialising can help prepare them as they set off for their new adventure and ensuring that they have basic cooking, cleaning and laundry skills will help them to settle into university life more easily.
If possible you might want to visit the area to help familiarise them with the location, or talk to them about personal safety and security when living in a new place with new people.
» New students: Information for parents
» New students: Before you arrive
One of the best things you can advise, is for your student to check their e-mails.
We will send several important emails to help them prepare for university.
Please ask them to check their email account regularly, and make sure to check their junk folder too.
Have they picked the right course?
One of the advantages of university, in comparison to school or college, is that students can focus on a subject they really care about.
Most choose a degree that they believe they will enjoy, but not matter how much time spent researching, they may have doubts before, or once they start.
Picking a degree can feel like a big decision, so your student might think that they can only choose once, but this isn't always the case.
If students want to be considered for another degree to the one they are holding an offer for, then it is best to make contact with the University as soon as they have changed their mind.
When will they get their timetable?
Further advice
For more advice and information - book your place on one of our upcoming online events for parents, guardians and supporters of prospective students.
Our jargon buster‌ can help parents to navigate the application process, explaining all the terms you'll come across.
If you've got any specific questions, please fill out our enquiry form .
UCAS
UCAS have a dedicated Parent, Guardian and Carer website, which provides a wealth of information about how to support your student's next steps.
They also produce a guide.
UCAS Parent, Guardian and Carer Guide
There is also the option to stay in touch with UCAS and sign up to their newsletters.
UCAS Parent Newsletter
Success at School
The Success at School Parent and Carers University Guide 2023/24 is a free digital guide to help parents and carers support their children to make informed decisions about their life after school or college with information from a range of universities.
Parents and Carers University Guide 2023/24 (successatschool.org)
UniTasterDays Parent Guide
The Parents’ Guide to University 2025 is a free digital guide to help parents and carers support their young people through the process of making an informed choice about university.
Covering topics like, is university right for them, what they should study,  and choosing the right kind of accommodation?
Contributions have been provided by over 75 university representatives from across the UK.
The Parents Guide to University

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/registeryourinterest:
What level of study are interested in?
With campuses in both Devon and Cornwall, we’re truly a university of the whole Southwest of the UK.
You'll find stunning scenery and beautiful natural environments across all of our campuses.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/student-life/exeter:
The historic cathedral city of Exeter is home to two of our campuses: Streatham , located on the edge of the city, and St Luke’s in the centre.
Set in the heart of the beautiful Devon countryside, Exeter is consistently rated as one of the best places to live, work, and study in the UK.
Exeter is in the South West of England.
It is the capital of Devon and is located on the River Exe.
Exeter is approximately 170 miles from London and is connected via a direct 2 hour train from London Paddington to Exeter St Davids.
Dartmoor National Park
Exeter City Centre
Exeter Cathedral
Exeter Quayside
Exmouth beach is a short train journey from Exeter
Walking the sea wall at Teignmouth, a short train ride from Exeter
The famous Double Locks pub by the canal on the outskirts of Exeter
Independent shops on Exeter's Fore Street
A quirky cafe in Exeter
Princesshay shopping centre
Streatham Campus is widely regarded as one of the most beautiful in the country
A Devonshire Cream Tea: jam on top!
"Napoleon" - the much-loved but unofficial Streatham Campus cat
Kayaking on the river Exe
Exmouth seafront
Posing on the University of Exeter rock is must for all graduates
Many students choose to live in private rented accommodation after their first year
The Forum Street is the heart of Streatham Campus
Exeter is a lively place with a strong independent sector.
There are boutique shops alongside high street stores, and quirky cafes peppered amongst independent restaurants using locally sourced produce.
A safe and walkable city, you can find everything you need right on your doorstep.
Exeter has one of the longest and most distinguished histories of any British city; you're never far away from a reminder of its diverse and exciting past.
Historic Exeter
Take in Exeter’s rich history with a walk around the City Wall Trail which explores the 2000-year-old Roman wall that once surrounded the city.
In 1068, Rougemont Castle was founded within the walls for William the Conqueror.
The Castle’s strategic position on the top of a hill allowed its occupants to see across the city.
Today the Castle is a hub of art, music, food and drink and hosts a number of events throughout the year.
Exeter Cathedral with its impressive vaulted ceiling, astronomical clock and stunning stained-glass windows is another must-see.
The beautiful Cathedral Green is also a popular meeting spot with students.
Running beneath the cathedral and across the city are the medieval underground passages .
Dating from the 14 th century, the passages were built to bring clean drinking water into Exeter.
Today you can take a guided tour of these narrow passages in an experience unique to Exeter.
Many of the city centre’s ancient buildings were destroyed during World War II as part of the so-called Baedeker Blitz, in which targets were chosen for their cultural and historical value.
This has created an intriguing mix of ancient and modern architecture across the city, making the areas that survived all the more special and interesting to visit.
Exeter is at the heart of the South West food scene with a vast array of outstanding restaurants, coffee shops, delicatessens and markets.
Eating out in Exeter
From small independent eateries to chain restaurants, there is something for everyone to enjoy here.
Eat your way around the world without leaving the city by exploring Exeter’s international cuisine.
Thai, Japanese, Greek, Mexican and Lebanese restaurants are just a few on offer.
However, if you fancy traditional British pub grub, then Exeter is also home to many gastropubs.
A student favourite, especially in the summertime, are the restaurants and cafes at Exeter’s historic Quayside .
What could be better than enjoying a pizza al fresco while overlooking the beautiful River Exe?
Foodies will also want to check out Queen Street Dining .
Home to several delicious restaurants and rooftop bars, it is the perfect location in Exeter to wine and dine.
You’ll also find a range of supermarkets represented in Exeter including Aldi, Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury’s.
Many of them are located in or close to the centre making it easy for students without a car to go food shopping.
There’s also a good range of international supermarkets catering for Asian, Indian, African, European and religious cuisines.
However, if local produce is what you’re looking for, you can find some excellent options at delicatessens, bakeries, butchers and greengrocers across the city.
Vegetarians and vegans also have good choice both on and off campus at supermarkets and plant-based restaurants in Exeter such as Sacred Grounds and The Flat .
You can enjoy a wealth of sport and leisure activities in Exeter with facilities including swimming pools, golf courses, climbing walls and even a dry ski slope.
Sport in Exeter
The University's Athletic Union also has over 50 different clubs and caters for everyone from complete beginners to elite athletes.
In addition to the University’s award-winning sports teams, we are fortunate to live in a city which is home to several other high-achieving teams.
Exeter was a Rugby World Cup host in 2015 and our Premiership Rugby club, the Exeter Chiefs , play their home games at Sandy Park, located on the outskirts of the city.
Football fans can also be entertained by supporting our League One football team, Exeter City , who play at St James' Park in the centre of the city.
Exeter has a lively nightlife, with pubs a plenty, a buzzing live music scene and festivals throughout the year.
Nightlife in Exeter
There are pubs a-plenty within mere minutes of both our Exeter campuses, including one on our Streatham Campus, The Ram Bar .
Student favourites include the Imperial (or Impy), a giant Wetherspoons with rolling gardens between St David’s train station and Streatham Campus, and The Old Firehouse , famed for its excellent range of beers and ciders, and giant late-night pizzas.
If you are looking for cocktail bars, Exeter has some great options.
Visit The Bootlegger for some incredible cocktails and live music or enjoy a drink on The Botanist's rooftop bar.
For something a bit different, visit Board and play a board game from their vast library while having a drink or bite to eat.
Exeter has a buzzing live music scene with a wide selection of pubs and music venues hosting bands and artists.
The underground Exeter Cavern regularly hosts live music and the venue has seen some of the world’s biggest bands launch their careers, including Muse, Coldplay, Mumford & Sons, Biffy Clyro, Scouting for Girls and Kaiser Chiefs.
You can also find one of the largest entertainment venues in the South West right on our Streatham Campus, The Great Hall .
Catch the big names playing here or at our other live music venue, the Lemon Grove (Lemmy).
Exeter hosts a number of festivals throughout the year.
The Enchanted Garden Ball is an annual Summer Ball event synonymous with decadence and magic, while dance music fans won’t want to miss Hijacked Festival, a popular springtime music festival.
Celebrate diversity through the performing and creative arts at Exeter Respect Festival or catch one of the many outdoor music events at Powderham Castle .
Oktoberfest at Exeter Castle is another fun event to enjoy with friends.
With live music, German beer and street food, you can have a taste of Bavarian culture in the heart of Exeter.
While Exeter might not compete with the likes of London or Manchester if you want to dance all night, the city is home to several great nightclubs.
Timepiece (TP) is Exeter’s self-proclaimed “half-decent nightclub” and caters for both the city’s more discerning club-goers and an inordinate number of sports team socials.
Other popular clubs include Fever & Boutique , Cavern , The Vaults , and Move all offering an array of fun nights out.
Exeter is home to a diverse and dynamic arts and culture scene
Arts and culture
There are several great theatres in Exeter, including the Northcott Theatre located right on our Streatham Campus.
In the city centre, you will also find two multiplex cinemas ( Odeon and Vue ) plus a pair of smaller independent cinema venues ( Picturehouse and Exeter Phoenix ) should you prefer world cinema, arthouse and independent films as well as mainstream movies.
The Exeter Corn Exchange is one of the largest multi-purpose venues in the city.
Catch a concert here or laugh out loud at one of their frequent comedy shows.
There is also an award-winning museum of national importance in Exeter, the Royal Albert Memorial Museum (RAMM), and you can find The Bill Douglas Cinema Museum right on our Streatham Campus too.
Exeter is just a short drive, cycle, bus or train journey away from beautiful coastline and impressive national parks.
Coastline and countryside
Beyond Exeter, there are lots of diverse and exciting places to explore.
Discover the deep wooded valleys, flowing rivers and rugged wide-open spaces of the Dartmoor and Exmoor National Parks.
Just a quick train ride away, a trip to the stunning Devon coastline is another popular activity with students.
Try your hand at some water sports in Exmouth , marvel at the beauty of the English Riviera or explore the incredible geology of the Jurassic Coast .
If you are in need of some retail therapy, the quaint town of Topsham with its vibrant mix of boutiques, galleries, gift shops and gastropubs is a great place to visit.
A short journey away is the South Hams region, much of which is designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty.
Take a day trip and explore the popular coastal spots of Dartmouth and Salcombe or venture to Totnes , a town full of character and charm.
Exeter’s Quayside is just a 10-minute walk from the city centre and has a fascinating history, beautiful architecture, lively pubs and restaurants, and a cluster of antique shops.
A multitude of events happen on the River Exe throughout the summer, including dragon boat racing, open air concerts, markets, street food, charity events and art exhibitions.
The Quay is also a launchpad for accessing National Cycle Route 2 which stretches down both sides of the Exe Estuary, to Exmouth and Dawlish beaches.
Many people hire bikes or kayaks to explore Exeter’s historic Ship Canal.
Enjoy the calm waters and beautiful scenery before taking a pitstop at the Double Locks or the Turf Locks Inn , two student-friendly pubs, for a drink or bite to eat.
If you don’t fancy paddling yourself, you can take a scenic boat cruise with Exeter Cruises .
Cruises normally take place at weekends between Easter and September, and daily from mid-July to August
As one of the UK’s official Cycling Demonstration Cities, Exeter has miles of safe cycle paths making it perfect to explore on two wheels.
Cafés, Bookshops and Clothes Sales, from a Sunday Roast to a Monday Morning Pick-Me-Up
Student blogger Amelie describes some of the best locations
Postgraduate student Raitieli talks about living in student halls in the city centre
“Living in Exeter has been an easy and enjoyable experience.
During my first year I lived in Holland Hall, a wonderful community with beautiful amenities.
Now, my friends and I rent a house near campus, which is perfect for exploring more of the city.
Some of my favourite places are the quiet Exeter Quay and The Old Firehouse, a local pub known for its amazing pizza and lively atmosphere.
"
Joel
Data Science

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/student-life/meet-our-students:
The feed below shows the latest posts from our student bloggers and Exeter Uni Life Instagram account giving you an insight into life at the University of Exeter.
Current students post about living in Devon and Cornwall, lectures, seminars and exams, societies and volunteering, plans for after graduation and what they think about the latest higher education stories in the news.
You also can find the University of Exeter on Facebook , Instagram and Youtube .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/student-life/students-unions:
The Students' unions in Exeter and Cornwall are responsible for events, entertainment, support, societies and representation.
Streatham and St Luke's Campuses
The University of Exeter Students’ Guild is here to help you Love Exeter!
The Guild exists to encourage and inspire all students to find their people, their passion and their place.
Central to student life, the Guild is your home of societies, events, representation, and advice.
Representation : The Students’ Guild is a member-led organisation which exists to represent all students on the Exeter campuses.
Student-led representation is vital to drive change on campus and ensure the student voice is heard at every level and on every issue.
You can share your opinions, become a rep, and campaign for change to improve the student experience.
Give it a Go : Running a programme of trips throughout the year, this is your chance to try out a unique range of trips and activities.
Most of the events are free or low cost, and you can come to as many as you like!
Activities : There are more than 300 societies and groups, covering a wide range of interests.
Learn a new skill, develop an existing hobby or even start your own society.
Our student groups include our award-winning student media societies; XpressionFM, XTV and Exeposé, which allow students to develop skills and experience in broadcast and print media.
Fundraising and Volunteering : Dedicating some of your spare time to help charitable causes allows students to give back to the local community and beyond whilst developing skills and experience that will count when you graduate.
Arts & Culture : From art therapy workshops to on-campus festivals, you can explore your creative side with music, art and theatre opportunities!
Student Communities : The Guild is here to help you find your people and your place at Exeter, so they have created space for student-led communities to connect, make lifelong friendships and above all feel that Exeter is somewhere everyone can call home.
Support: The Students’ Guild Advice Team offers a range of confidential and impartial advice on topics including academic support, accommodation and money.
The Guild also offers peer-led support through group discussions on issues such as mental health and eating disorders.
» Visit The Students’ Guild website
The Falmouth and Exeter Students' Union is known as The SU and jointly represents students of the University of Exeter in Cornwall and Falmouth University.
Students from each institution have their own student president and the support of two joint presidents: one responsible for student experience, and one responsible for community and welfare.
The SU will play a major role in your student experience, starting with Freshers’ Week.
It organises events on and off campus; helps students set up and run sports clubs, societies and volunteer projects; has a successful community and student fundraising department and runs an advice service.
Representation: The SU President Exeter works full-time to make sure your voice is heard within the University and wider community.
The SU also offers lots of opportunities for students to get involved, including roles as a course rep, committee member or as part of the Leadership Team.
Advice Service: The SU staff offer independent, impartial advice and help with queries relating to money, accommodation and legal matters.
Media: students run an online newspaper, the Falmouth Anchor, and a science and nature-themed magazine called Life.
These publications offer the opportunity for ambitious students to showcase their talent.
Student fundraising: gives you the opportunity to make a difference, gain experience, make new friends and boost your CV.
Students are welcome to come up with their own fundraising events or join RAD (the Raise and Donate Society) with their annual challenges, including Movember, Rally4Shelterbox and Challenges Abroad.
Volunteering: students have established 18 different long-term volunteering projects, ranging from environmental projects to animal care and education, and also contribute to the wider community.
Legends is our volunteering scheme, which helps you build and record your volunteer journey, whether you volunteer regularly with one of our volunteer projects, work independently within the community, or work as a committee member with one of our activity groups or with our Student Voice department.
It enables you to find your ideal voluntary activity, log your volunteering hours, record careers skills gained, access training and work towards a Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, Crystal or Diamond award in volunteering.
» Visit The SU website

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/student-life/societies-clubs:
Getting involved in a club or society is one of the best ways to make friends, explore your interests, and feel part of the university community.
With hundreds of societies covering everything from music, drama, and debate to environmental action, chocolate tasting, and hip hop, there’s something for everyone.
These student-led groups are open to all, and if you don’t find what you’re looking for, the Students Unions will support you to set up your own.
The Hindu Society performing at Diwali
Exepose - Exeter's independent student newspaper since 1987
Exeter University Officers' Training Corps
Breakdancing
Cheerleading
The Harry Potter Society
An action shot of the EUDS (Exeter University Dance Society) Showcase
Student pilot gig rowing on the sea in Cornwall
Watersports
Performance by the EUJO (Jazz Orchestra) at the Exeter Phoenix
Students' Union Welcome Fayre on Penryn Campus, with lots of 'take-part' activities, including food, stalls, and a rodeo
Student media is another exciting way to get involved.
From presenting on radio or creating podcasts to writing for student publications or producing video content, you’ll have the chance to develop real-world skills and showcase your creativity.
Many students use this experience as a springboard into careers in journalism, broadcasting, and the creative industries.
Volunteering and fundraising are also at the heart of student life.
Whether you're supporting local causes, taking part in global charity challenges, or organising events, there are endless ways to make a positive impact.
Dedicated student groups help coordinate projects and provide opportunities to get involved in ways that match your interests and availability.
“Coming to Exeter, I was surprised at the amount of different societies available for students to join.
This was something I was excited to dive into, and I participated in events with the Literature Society, Crocheting and Knitting Society, K-pop Society, and many sports societies.
It was a great way to meet new people and I always tell new students to try out as many as they can because you don't get the chance to do these things once you leave university.
Erica
LLB Law

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/student-life/sports-exercise:
We are proud of our hard-earned reputation for sporting excellence at Exeter , but our constant focus is on ensuring every student has the opportunity to get involved, regardless of ability or interest.
Whatever your ambitions, you’ll have every chance to take part in sport and fitness activities.
Perfect your skills, learn something new or just have some fun.
*BUCS Sport rankings 2023/24 rankings
Whether you’re an elite athlete or a complete novice, the University of Exeter offers a huge variety of sports clubs and societies.
Choose from over 100 sports clubs across our campuses , our social sport programme , and various wellness initiatives offering the chance to get involved in activities throughout the region.
If you’re interested in coaching, volunteering, or enhancing your CV then you can get involved in our coach education programmes too.
Women's Rugby Union
Students taking part in a BUCS fencing match at Streatham Sports Park
A practice match held by the Exeter University Ladies' Hockey Club
The indoor pool on St Luke's Campus, Exeter
Watersports are popular with students at our Penryn Campus
The Freshers Fair at the start of term is where you can find out about all the sports clubs available at Exeter
Exeter Tennis Centre is home to some of the best facilities in the South West
Men's Rugby Union
American Football
Table tennis
Fitness class
We have invested heavily in superb facilities across all our campuses, allowing us to offer a large variety of participation opportunities for all students.
Facilities on the Penryn Campus, Cornwall
Watersports feature strongly in Cornwall; it’s one of the best places in the country for surfing and sailing, and the Penryn Campus has great links with local water sports providers and clubs, including traditional Cornish gig-rowing clubs.
The Penryn Campus has a £4 million Sports Centre which includes a four-court sports hall, a large, versatile studio offering classes, and a spacious, 90-station gym equipped by leading UK experts Pulse Fitness.
Away from the gym, the campus has easy-to-use outdoor gym equipment and a multi-use games area, which offers an all-weather, floodlit facility for five-a-side football and other sports.
Facilities on the Exeter campuses
Our £8.6 million Russell Seal Fitness Centre houses an extensive range of equipment including a free weights room, Synrgy 360, Wattbike area and HIIT zone.
The centre is also home to a range of fitness classes, personal training and workshops.
We also have an international standard water-based hockey pitch, 3G rubber-crumb, Tennis Centre, Cricket Centre, outdoor pool, short-course golf practice area, squash courts and many more facilities .
St Luke’s Sports Centre is home to our indoor pool, sports halls and gym.
Off campus, we also have two large grass sports grounds and a boat house on the canal.
Our Performance Programme offers assistance to top level student athletes in our Performance sports: Rugby Union, Hockey, Cricket, Golf, Netball, Tennis, Lacrosse and Sailing.
Performance Sports athletes receive elite professional coaching, sports science services, physiotherapy, athlete lifestyle support and strength and conditioning training.
"The sports facilities at Exeter are second to none.
The tennis courts in particular are exceptional.
Being able to play no matter what the weather, has really helped me to train as much as I have wanted to this year.
To say my tennis has improved whilst being here is an understatement."
Megan
Sports and exercise Science

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/student-life/support-wellbeing:
Going to university is great fun and will be full of opportunities, however depending on your personal circumstances, we understand  that things may not always seem so easy.
Your wellbeing whilst at university is really important to us and our Wellbeing Service is here to support all our students and to provide support for you if you are applying to study here .
There are more than 140 members of the Wellbeing Services team, ready to support you.
We offer a range of psychological therapies, workshops, self-help services, support with mental health issues and wide-ranging support on wellbeing at our campuses.
Support in Exeter, Devon
Your personal tutor - Primarily to offer academic guidance relating to your programme of study, but also to offer general advice and support and signpost to specialist services if necessary.
On-campus surgery - Whilst you are a student you will need to register with a general practitioner (GP).
There is a Student Health Centre on the Streatham Campus and the St Luke’s Campus is served by the Heavitree Health Practice.
Wellbeing Services - Offer a range of psychological therapies, workshops, self-help services, support for students with mental health issues, and advice on a range of wellbeing concerns.
The service offers support to students on both the St Luke’s and Streatham campuses, with some sessions specifically scheduled to take place on the St Luke’s Campus.
Individual Learning Plans - We support students to have reasonable adjustments put in place for their health needs or disabilities while they study through an Individual Learning Plan.
This can be accessed through and Wellbeing Services.
Disability support - Our AccessAbility Services and mental health advisors ensure that students with disabilities are able to participate fully in university life.
We encourage you to declare your disability on your application form so that we can help prepare for your arrival and plan your support.
We can provide guidance on funding sources and support, and offer advice on diagnostic assessments where there may be indications of a specific learning difficulty such as dyslexia or dyspraxia.
Childcare - Over £3 million has been invested into a new, purpose-built facility on the Streatham Campus, due to open in Autumn 2019.
It will provide nursery places for children from six weeks to school age.
This new facility will offer more childcare places, extended opening hours and greater availability throughout the year.
Religious provision - The University’s Multifaith Chaplaincy is available to all, irrespective of faith or background.
For Christians, there are chapels on both Exeter campuses.
Islamic students have their own prayer rooms on the Streatham Campus with separate facilities for both men and women.
Your home from home - Our Community Engagement Team offer a range of activities, advice and support with a focus on getting students living happily in, and being active members of, their community.
exeter.ac.uk/about/community/uni/
Settling in - Our Residence Life Team offers peer support, out-of-hours assistance, signposting and social activities to residents of University accommodation.
exeter.ac.uk/residencelifeteam
Education Support Advisors (Welfare) - We have a team of Education Support Advisors (Welfare) who are based in Colleges to support students with welfare issues and signpost them to the relevant services.
They can be accessed through the College Hub.
exeter.ac.uk/wellbeing
Students’ Guild Advice Service - Offers independent, confidential and impartial advice and help in response to questions or problems you might have relating to money, housing and academic matters.
Support in Truro and Penryn, Cornwall
Student Services offer help with a wide range of issues in liaison with the academic teams and external healthcare professionals.
Your academic tutor - Will be available to discuss any problems with you, academic or otherwise.
The Student Helpdesk - If you need general advice relating to student life, for example, wellbeing, welfare, living support, religion or spirituality, dyslexia or study skills, the Student Helpdesk is an information service that can point you in the right direction.
The SU Advice Service - The SU Advice Service provides free, confidential, impartial advice and guidance to all University of Exeter Cornwall Campus students and Falmouth University students.
The advice encompasses a range of legal and University-related issues including: academic issues, money matters, housing, consumer rights, employment, and welfare.
Email the Advice Service with your enquiry or to request an appointment: advice@thesu.org.uk
On-campus doctors’ surgery - The Penryn Campus is served by the Penryn Surgery, which provides a clinic on campus five times a week.
Those living off-campus in the Truro, Falmouth or Penryn area can register with a local surgery .
Counselling - Confidential, professional advice and support is offered by Student Services.
Disability support - We ensure that students with disabilities are able to participate fully in campus activities and encourage you to declare your disability on your application form.
This doesn’t affect your application, but it does help us to prepare for your arrival and plan your support.
We can also help students to identify technical or equipment needs and apply for funding, benefits and allowances.
Family support - The Little Wonders Nurseries in Penryn and Falmouth are for children up to five years old.
The nurseries benefit families of staff, students and the community, and include plenty of safe and secure outdoor space to encourage play and learning.
Religious provision - The Multifaith Chaplaincy provides a welcoming and supportive environment for students and staff of all faiths or none.
The Chaplaincy has quiet rooms to worship, pray or reflect.
"The Wellbeing team provided me with unwavering support, creating an individualised learning plan that allowed me to seek extensions when needed and addressed my accommodation concerns, ensuring my mental health remained a priority."
Amna
MSc Business Analytics

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/strategy2030:
Strategy 2030
Together we create the possible
We will use the power of our education and research to create a sustainable, healthy and socially just future.
Our shared purpose and vision will continually move us forward to make a difference to our people, our communities, our partners, and to the world around us.
Lead meaningful action against the climate emergency and ecological crisis.
Make key breakthroughs to transform human health and wellbeing.
Lead the progress towards creating a fair, socially just and inclusive society.
We do this by developing critical, creative and empowered people through our educational programmes and by creating knowledge, making discoveries and providing solutions through our research.
We are committed to working with our partners and communities, to being a great employer, providing accessible education and preserving, advancing and disseminating knowledge.
How we got here
Our new strategy was created by our staff, student and alumni community, through the biggest, most ambitious consultation we've ever undertaken.
How we will work
We will work together, guided by our values.
We will break down barriers, use new technologies to meet the needs of our people, and maximise our positive impact on the world.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/accommodation:
Accommodation in Exeter
Take a look at our latest information >
Starting university is an exciting time and the student living experience is a huge part of university life.
Living in student accommodation gives an opportunity to meet a diverse range of people from different backgrounds and cultures, studying a variety of programmes, allowing you to make friends straight away.
Everyone has different requirements and we offer a wide range of university owned, managed and approved partner accommodation to suit all tastes.
The University of Exeter continually invests in its properties to provide new facilities and upgrade existing ones.
Building development works in close proximity to some existing residences are proposed to begin in Summer 2025 – find out more .
Room Finder »
Our Room Finder shows the range of accommodation for 2025-26, which can be used as a guide to our facilities and prices.
Moving in »
Helpful information to prepare for your arrival.
Residents »
Everything you need to know when you’re living in student accommodation.
For Accommodation on our Cornwall Campuses please see our Cornwall Accommodation pages .
^ Terms and conditions apply.
Read more about our Accommodation Guarantee .
+ Find out what's included in your rent on the Applying and Paying page .
* Facilities and services provided may vary.
Check residence for full details.
Our handy guides will help walk you through all the things you should consider when choosing accommodation.
Living in Lafrowda made me feel like being a part of a community as I managed to meet people that were really friendly.
The most important part for me as an international student was to be opened up to different encounters, whether this was the people I met or the practices of my flatmates.
I definitely made the most out of my university life during my first year of study!
Zachary from Hong Kong
BSc Economics and Finance at our Streatham Campus
Visit the Accommodation blog to read more →

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/student-life/cornwall:
Thanks to its scenic beaches and coves, and dramatic clifftop views, Cornwall is one of Britain’s favourite holiday destinations.
The county also has a rich history of artistic and scientific innovation, making it a fascinating and stimulating place to live and attend university.
Cornwall is located in the South West of England, west of Devon.
Cornwall is approximately 250 miles from London and is accessible via direct trains from stations including London Paddington.
The Heart Building on Penryn Campus
The Italian Gardens on Penryn Campus
Tremough House on the Penryn campus
Students walk through Glasney Student Village
Gardens at the Penryn campus
The Exchange, Penryn Campus
Students exploring Pendennis Castle near Falmouth
Gyllyngvase, better known as Gylly Beach in Falmouth.
A festival with market stalls at Falmouth harbour
Gyllyngvase Beach, Falmouth
Many festivals take place in Falmouth throughout the year
An aerial view of the Penryn Campus with the coast in the background
The dramatic Minack Theatre
A Falmouth pub
Harbour Lights fish and chip shop in Falmouth
Falmouth harbour
Watersports are popular amongst students in Cornwall
The Exchange Building
The nearby town of Falmouth offers a wide variety of shopes, galleries, eateries, and social venues, and hosts a number of annual events such as the Oyster Festival and Sea Shanty Festival.
The city of Truro is a short bus or train ride away and boasts stunning views of the impressive Truro Cathedral , as well as many opportunities for shopping, dining, cultural and architectural delights and festivals.
Cornwall has been inhabited since the Palaeolithic period, and it is not difficult to find burial chambers, hill forts and standing stones dotted across its rolling green hillsides.
Historic Cornwall
Truro is Cornwall's capital and archaeological evidence dates back several centuries, and, in the 12th century, the city was home to a castle built by the Chief Justice of King Henry II.
Soaring above the surrounding rooftops, Truro Cathedral is located in the centre of this thriving Cornish city.
Completed in 1910, the Cathedral is relatively young, it is still unique and very impressive.
Made in the gothic style, the building incorporates fragments of the old parish church that once stood on the same site, and features a number of noteworthy stained glass panels.
The Cathedral hosts a number of talks and musical performances that are open to the public.
Founded in 1216 by the Bishop of Exeter, Penryn is one of Cornwall’s oldest towns.
From 1265 until 1548, Penryn was home to Glasney College, a religious institution whose dissolution was one of the factors leading to the Prayer Book Rebellion in 1549.
Although Henry VIII built Falmouth’s Pendennis Castle in 1540, the town was not officially incorporated until 1613.
Falmouth became the Royal Mail packet station in 1688 and, as such, was the port into which news of the events at the Battle of Trafalgar was brought to the British mainland.
The town has a long history of maritime activity; the Falmouth Docks—still highly active today—were founded in 1858.
The introduction of the railway in 1863 greatly improved access to the town and allowed Falmouth to develop into the popular tourist destination that it is today.
Those wanting to know more about local history can visit the Penryn Town Museum , which houses artefacts dating back to the 13th century.
Truro’s Royal Cornwall Museum also has many exhibits pertaining to life in Cornwall, though it also documents natural history, culture, and art more broadly.
There is no shortage of excellent eateries near the Penryn and Truro Campuses, offering a diverse range of culinary options.
Eating out in Cornwall
Penryn’s Muddy Beach offers an unpretentious ambiance with delicious food (vegan- and vegetarian-friendly options) served up with a side of river views and, on many weekend evenings, live performances.
Falmouth boasts a number of restaurants—including The Stable , The Shack , and Cribb’s —owned and operated by local chefs, as well as franchises of popular chains such as Zizzi’s and Pizza Express.
Prior to taking in a show at Truro’s Hall for Cornwall , diners might stop in at Hooked!
(which has a sister restaurant in Falmouth), Manning’s or Lounges .
If you're after a more chilled-out location then the infamous Hubbox is taking the South West by storm after starting in Cornwall and opening up further eateries in Devon and Bristol.
Gravy Boesti and Tabb’s , recommended by international food publications, are also excellent choices.
As well as restaurants, there is such an abundance of cafes here, you’ll have a hard time choosing where to indulge in your first cream tea; in fact, you might end up having several just so you can sample all the different venues and take part in the favoured debate of cream or jam first!
Living in Cornwall, you will never be far away from traditional Cornish pasties or fish and chip shops which are a great option to eat whilst overlooking the river or taking in some sea air.
Take a look at our student guide to eating local for further insight into some local hotspots.
Falmouth and Penryn are home to a number of quirky independent retailers as well as well-known high street businesses.
Shopping
In addition to shops selling surf gear, clothing, home decorations, and gifts, there are also many stores specialising in more unique items, such as vintage clothing, vinyl, and antiques.
Considered the shopping centre of Cornwall, Truro also boasts a wide variety of both chain and boutique shops.
Cornwall has been a creative hotspot for years and is home to a number of contemporary artists, innovators, and creative organisations whose galleries, workshops, and educational spaces are open to the public.
Whether you’re an elite athlete or a complete novice, you can get involved in a variety of sports clubs and societies.
Sport in Cornwall
If you enjoy water sports Cornwall is one of the best places in the country for sailing and surfing.
You can also try sea swimming or traditional Cornish gig rowing!
Student sports clubs are varied and include: badminton, cheerleading, football, hockey, lacrosse, cycling, Kung Fu and Ultimate Frisbee.
Students can also take advantage of the sports centre on the Penryn campus , which includes a four-court sports hall, a large, versatile studio and a spacious, 90-station gym equipped by leading UK experts Pulse Fitness.
Find out more about sport and exercise in Cornwall
There are lots of pubs and bars in nearby Falmouth and Truro.
The Penryn Campus also regularly hosts a number of events at the Stannary.
Nightlife in Cornwall
Sunsets are beautiful in Cornwall—not just because you can watch their orange glow spread across the sea, but also because they signal the start of the county’s nightlife.
There are plenty of fun bars in Falmouth including The Cornish Bank which often puts on live music, and the unique Beerwolf Books where you can browse affordable literature and enjoy local ales (and more) all in the same 17th-century pub.
In Truro you can dance the night away at the Vanilla Bar which is very popular with students and locals.
Other venues to enjoy your evening include Vertigo, where you can sample a creative range of stylishly crafted cocktails, and Rocco's Gin & Retro Bar where you can dance along to tunes from the 80s, 90s and 00s.
The Penryn Campus regularly hosts a number of events at the Stannary .
Those looking to venture further afield can head off campus for live music, dancing, comedy shows, theatre, and cinema.
A number of nationally and internationally acclaimed acts headline at venues in both Falmouth and Truro, and the renowned outdoor Minack Theatre , just over an hour away, offers audience members stunning views of the ocean during performances.
For a quieter night, you can drop by one of the many art galleries that routinely host evening engagements, or have a relaxed cocktail at one of the area’s many small, intimate bars.
Visitors to the Cornwall campuses can enjoy evening events in local bars and venues such as pub quizzes, performances of shanties and other local music, karaoke evenings, and open mic nights.
Thanks in part to the number of performers who stay in the area after graduating from Falmouth University, there is a thriving community of musicians who regularly perform near the Cornwall campuses.
The Princess Pavilion is located alongside the verdant Gyllyngdune Gardens, and is within a stone’s throw of Falmouth’s scenic beaches (Castle and Gylly).
It provides space for live music, arts and crafts fairs, exhibitions, stand-up comedy routines, and small theatrical performances.
It also houses the Garden Room, which serves lunch and dinner throughout the year.
The inaugural performance at Hall for Cornwall took place in 1997, but the building itself dates to 1846.
The impressive facility has room for nearly 1000 audience members, who come to enjoy everything from stand-up comedy to rock concerts (Elbow have played there) to performances of Shakespeare’s plays.
The programme always features a number of family-friendly events and offers matinees as well as evening shows.
There are three main cinemas near the Cornwall campuses: Phoenix and The Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society in Falmouth, and the Plaza Cinema in Truro .
Both the Phoenix and Plaza Cinemas offer access to blockbusters as well as live broadcast viewings of musicals, ballets, concerts, and plays.
The Poly runs a mixture of well-known popular films as well as foreign-language, arthouse, and vintage movies that you won’t find anywhere else.
There is an abundance of museums near the Cornwall campuses that cover a wide variety of subjects.
The award-winning National Maritime Museum Cornwall is located in Falmouth’s Discovery Quay (Events Square) which is a vibrant part of Falmouth’s waterfront and features displays exploring the long relationship between humans and the sea.
The acclaimed Falmouth Art Gallery features British art in a variety of styles and from a variety of eras; hands-on activities and exhibitions allow children to get up close and personal with the art world.
The area surrounding Penryn Campus provides many options for students and visitors who are in the mood to explore a bit further afield.
A variety of destinations offering adventures in recreation, shopping, history, and culture are just a bus or train ride away.
The Eden Project is a ground-breaking facility erected on the site of a former china clay pit.
It features a collection of biomes that house plants from around the world; this includes the largest indoor rainforest in the world.
Exhibitions on art, science, nature, and culture can be found scattered throughout the greenhouses and also around the beautiful outdoor gardens that surround them.
A skating rink is created on-site each winter, while in the summer visitors can attend a series of outdoor concerts from a variety of musicians ranging from Snow Patrol to Elton John and Kylie Minogue.
The Eden Project
Cornwall’s North Coast comprises over forty miles of ruggedly beautiful landscape between Bude and Perranporth.
It is a popular destination for surfers and beachgoers, but also offers fantastic opportunities for photographers, hikers, and nature-lovers.
History buffs won’t want to miss out on Tintagel Castle , a medieval fortification often linked to tales of King Arthur.
The Lizard Peninsula is home to the southernmost point on the UK’s mainland.
It offers a stunning and dramatic landscape where you can fully appreciate Cornwall’s unique geology and the habitat that it provides to a variety of rare flora and fauna—including Cornish choughs, which have only recently returned to breed in the county after decades of being locally extinct.
The Lizard is considered a National Character Area and is part of Cornwall’s Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty.
Visitors can dine on locally caught seafood and duck into pubs to hear performances of traditional Cornish music.
Giang Chu, a student from Vietnam, shares a typical day on the Penryn Campus
Recent Law graduate Tom talks about why he choose to study at the University of Exeter's Penryn campus
Sustainable Energy Futures student SJ shares some of their favourite locations for nights out.
"At the Penryn Campus, you combine learning in a space of outstanding beauty with opportunities you wouldn’t get at other universities such as sailing and surfing.
It is a match made in heaven.
It attracts a lot of climate positive, nature focused and outdoorsy people."
BSc Business and Environment, Penryn Campus

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/cornwall-accommodation:
Accommodation in Cornwall
Starting university is an exciting time.
Learning about life in our Cornwall residences is a great place to begin finding out about the student experience here.
Our University accommodation gives you the opportunity to meet people from a diverse range of backgrounds and cultures who are on a variety of degree programmes, especially in Penryn where you will be sharing accommodation with Falmouth University students.
This arrangement is unique within the UK and many parts of the campus – including our halls of residence, leisure facilities, and some of our teaching and learning spaces – are shared with Falmouth students.
Penryn Campus offers a compact, safe, and secure environment with easy access to sports facilities, a canteen (called The Stannary), a bar, campus shop, cafes, study spaces and our beautiful grounds.
There are lots of great options for relaxing, socialising and study, plus, we are only a bus or train ride away from Cornwall’s beaches, countryside and heritage.
Penryn Campus is a 20-minute bus ride from Falmouth town centre and a 15-minute walk from the middle of Penryn.
The nearest supermarket is a 15-minute walk away.
This site provides Undergraduate and International Postgraduate students with information on what accommodation is available for those studying on the Cornwall campus.
Postgraduate students based in the UK should visit our private accommodation page , where we can help you find housemates or rooms in the private sector.
* Terms and conditions apply.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/careers/careersupport:
The Career Zones at our Streatham and Penryn campuses offer help at all stages of your career planning, whether you are still deciding what to do, planning for your future, or competing for jobs.
Employability Schemes
We have won national awards for delivering outstanding services including work placements, social enterprise support, commitment to the employability agenda, support for student entrepreneurship and sustainability learning for employability.
We have over ten different schemes including:
Ask An Alum - a fuss-free way to connect with University of Exeter alumni to ask careers questions.
You can be introduced to alumni working in your field of interest whatever that may be at the time of applying.
Aspiring Teachers - pulls together a range of opportunities on campus for those interested in a career in teaching or education.
Career Development for Sustainability - enables students from any discipline and any year of study to develop their skills and gain experiences in the sustainability sector.
Career Mentor Scheme - matches a student or graduate with an experienced professional, for sector insight and one-to-one careers advice and guidance, over a 6 month period.
Create Your Future - for 1st year students providing the opportunity to think about what you want from your future, and the practical steps to get there.
Gateway to Careers - offer students insights and experience in typically hidden career pathways.
Get Ready to Graduate - has information if you are about to complete studies and graduate from Exeter.
Grand Challenges - a project week in which you will work in interdisciplinary groups with other like-minded students to design innovative solutions to real-world sustainability problems.
Green Consultants - an award winning programme designed to provide students with additional skills and experience required to work in the highly competitive environmental and sustainability sector.
HEAR (Higher Education Achievement Report) - an enhanced transcript that provides information on academic achievements, prizes and awards as well as selected extra curricular achievements.
Professional Pathways programme - a suite of sector-specific training courses and paid 35-hour internships
The Exeter Award - an employability achievement award for current undergraduate and taught postgraduate students.
It will help you stand out from the crowd and give you the confidence to shout about the experiences you've had at university.
The Exeter Leaders Award - for students who are keen to develop their leadership skills.
It will help you reflect on your leadership style and techniques, and set clear, achievable goals for self-development.
Careers research and planning
At the Career Zone, we want to help you with your career planning, whatever stage you are at.
Whether it's a case of not knowing the sector you’re interested in yet or the options that your degree offers you.
Or perhaps you are very clear on your chosen career, want to skip those early stages and get help with your applications.
We provide:
China Career Ready and India Career Ready Programmes
Our China Carer Ready and India Career Ready programmes are available to all students, no matter what programme or level you are studying at.
It is for students from China or India who may want to work in the UK or return to their home country, as well as any other students who are interested in working in China or India during or after their studies.
They combine an online learning programme and live workshops to provide you with tailored guidance with your career planning.
We host a range of virtual, in-person and hybrid employability and employer events.
From workshops and alumni panels to careers fairs and employer drop-ins, there is something for all students in terms of skills development and access to employment opportunities.
Throughout the academic year we host a range of careers fairs attracting national, regional and local companies.
They are designed to provide you with access to a range of employers offering part-time work, internships, placements and graduate opportunities.
These companies are keen to recruit Exeter students, making them a fantastic opportunity for you to access potential future employers.
Handshake
Handshake is our career development platform providing a menu of services for students and graduates.
Handshake allows you to discover employers and opportunities, submit applications, and attend career fairs and other events.
From refining my CV to conducting mock interviews, [the Careers team] prepared me for the professional world.
Their commitment extended beyond graduation, offering guidance as I navigated job applications and career choices.
Their dedication transformed uncertainty into clarity.
I am immensely thankful for their help and guidance, which significantly boosted my confidence.
Studying Business Economics

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/careers/experience:
Even if your degree doesn’t include a placement as a core element of the course, we offer excellent opportunities to gain real business experience
Internships may help you to develop a range of skills and experiences that will be useful in your chosen career.
The Career Zone runs a range of schemes and offers support to help University of Exeter students and graduates find and secure valuable internships opportunities.
Placements are jobs/work/projects that are undertaken as part of a credit-bearing module.
The Career Zone and dedicated Placement teams offer a range of support and guidance to support students in finding and securing placements.
They are a great way of developing a range of skills and experiences that can support students graduate career journey and success.
Find out more about placements .
Many of our degrees include a work experience module as an integral part of the programme.
For those that don’t, you can opt to do one of the generic independent work experience modules.
Through either paid or voluntary work placements, the module will help you develop essential transferable skills for your future employability.
The Student Ambassador Scheme offers paid opportunities to students want to engage with prospective students and positively promote Exeter's courses, campuses and community.
There is a range of work available which offers the chance to develop key skills such as presentation, teamwork and adaptability.
Ambassadors take part in a variety of activities including on-campus events such as open days and campus tours; visiting schools and colleges; and online, peer-to-peer chat.
We typically recruit c.150 students per year to either their Student Ambassador or Student Representative positions.
The Career Mentor Scheme is a popular employability scheme which matches students at any stage of their studies, or recent graduates (up to three years post-graduation) with an experienced professional, for sector insight and one-to-one careers advice and guidance, over a 6 month period.
Apart from providing you with money, a part-time job can provide you with experience to add to your CV.
You will develop skills such as time-keeping, learning how to deal with colleagues, working as part of a team, problem solving and commercial awareness.
Part-time work could provide experience in a field that you want a career in, helping convince employers you are serious about that career path.
Exeter is proud to be one of the top universities offering Degree Apprenticeships.
These innovative new degrees combine university study with paid work in a professional role related to your degree.
One major benefit of choosing a Degree Apprenticeship is that your tuition fees will be paid for by your employer; you’ll also earn a salary throughout your studies.
These degrees offer great employment prospects, as you’ll have gained valuable work experience prior to graduating.
Our degrees are delivered and developed in partnership with employers.
As an applicant you can find yourself working for an amazing company, including those who are often among our top graduate employers.
Partners have included IBM, the Met Office, Renishaw, BT, Laing O’Rourke and Airbus.
All of our Degree Apprenticeships lead to full Exeter degrees.
My professional training year was amazing!
I spent the year at the University of Birmingham as a research intern in the School of Sport Exercise and Rehabilitation Science.
The research with which I was involved centred primarily on muscle metabolism and physiology.
In doing [the placement year] I feel I have acquired a skill-set that distinguishes me from other students and enhances my employment prospects.
I think it’s great that Exeter offers the opportunity to develop employability skills whilst contributing to your degree.
In my final year I now have a new perspective as to how I can apply my learning post-studying.
Read more from Charlotte
Charlotte
Studying Sport and Exercise Medical Sciences

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/careers/aftergraduation:
As an Exeter graduate you are not only entitled to the fantastic opportunities that our Alumni Office offer, you also have access to the Career Zone support for three years after you leave
The University is in contact with more than 155,000 alumni in more than 183 countries.
As a graduate from the University of Exeter, you are entitled to all of the fantastic resources that the alumni office can offer, as well as access to the Career Zone support for three years after you leave and some elements of our online support forever.
The Alumni Office runs an extensive programme of professional networking events and reunions which are held in the UK and around the world.
Many of our alumni have had very successful careers and are keen to support today’s students.
Recent graduates give many hours to provide career talks, individual mentoring, work placements and practice job interviews to help students.
The Graduate Business Partnership is a a placement scheme for recent graduates.
The scheme places graduates with local companies and projects have taken place in a range of areas including: IT and e-commerce; market research; product development; and scientific and environmental research.
During your placement you also benefit from a structured training programme run by the University.
Many of our students stay on at Exeter to undertake Masters and PhD study.
Visit our Postgraduate Taught and Postgraduate Research websites to find out what we offer.
If you’re interested in a career in teaching, our PGCE programmes offer the perfect next step.
We run both Primary and Secondary PGCE programmes and Exeter students studying many of our degree programmes are automatically guaranteed an interview for these providing specific criteria are met.
As a graduate from the University of Exeter you will be entitled Career Zone services for three years after graduation:
When I moved to London after university, I was really grateful for the 'Exeter Forever' events.
Attended by recent alumni, they are a fantastic way of hearing about people's career journeys and experience of a new city, with the shared background of being at the University of Exeter.
Anya
BA History

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/funding/undergraduate:
We understand the financial pressures that undergraduate students can face when arriving at university for the first time and that is why we offer bursaries to complement government loans for low household income families, scholarships for exceptional students, sportspeople and those meeting other criteria, as well as expert funding advice and guidance.
Please see our information below for undergraduate students and see what is available to you:
Scholarships & bursaries
Find out about the scholarships and bursaries available for undergraduates.
Financial support
See what financial support the University can provide.
Grants and loans
Find out about options provided by the UK government.
I was beyond thrilled to receive the Global Excellence Scholarship.
It is exciting to be part of a university that has confidence in its students’ abilities.
This award has definitely pushed me to strive for the best.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/funding/postgraduatetaught:
We understand the financial pressures that Postgraduate Taught students can face when furthering their studies at university and that as why we offer scholarships for exceptional students, sportspeople and those meeting other criteria as well as expert funding advice and guidance.
Please see our information below for Postgraduate Taught students and see what is available to you.
Scholarships and bursaries
Find out about the different funding options available for postgraduate taught students.
Funding your course
Being awarded this scholarship was one of the best days of my life.
It helped me a lot in several different ways and without it, I would still be studying in America, while working part-time to afford it.
I was able to save so much during my studies I am now considering pursuing a PhD programme.
Tahir
MSc Social and Organisational Psychology

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/funding/international:
We are investing over £5m in a range of scholarships to support international and EU students paying international tuition fees, who choose Exeter for their studies in 2025/26.
This guide provides an overview of our main scholarships and other useful information, covering partial and full awards, country and subject-specific scholarships and prestigious jointly funded schemes.
Awards recognising outstanding academic achievement and ambition.
Automatic awards to help make sure eligible candidates can pursue their studies.
Refer to the Country-specific section below for further details.
In 2025/26, awards from the above two schemes can be combined to a maximum award value of £10,000 towards tuition fees.
Undergraduate jointly funded schemes
New for September 2025, The Beacon Scholarship at the University of Exeter is offered in partnership with the Beacon Equity Trust to nurture young people with leadership potential.
Up to six Beacon Scholarships for UK undergraduate degrees are offered each year across Beacon partner universities.
Eligible candidates from Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia, and South Africa must be nominated by their School Head and receive an offer of admission from a Beacon Partner University before being invited to apply.
Please visit the Beacon Changemakers website for more information.
Postgraduate jointly funded schemes
In partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign, the University of Exeter is offering five scholarships to students who are citizens and residents of Bangladesh, Ghana, Nigeria and Turkey.
These scholarships are available to applicants for eligible one-year postgraduate courses.
The GREAT Scholarships 2025 programme, launched by the British Council together with 71 UK universities, provides postgraduate students from Bangladesh, China, Egypt, France, Ghana, Greece, Kenya, India, Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, and Vietnam access to world-class UK higher education.
The scholarship programme offers financial support of a minimum of £10,000 to students pursuing one-year postgraduate study in the UK.
Students can apply for courses in a range of subjects at 71 institutions across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
For more information on the GREAT Scholarships 2025, please visit Study UK .
We are pleased to offer the Green Futures Postgraduate Taught Scholarship for study on an eligible Masters programme in the Faculty of Environment, Science and Economy in 2025/26.
This award will support an exceptional candidate from a low or lower middle-income country to pursue their academic and career goals - combining education for sustainable development with global citizenship to deliver equitable and sustainable Green Futures around the world.
Apply for the Green Futures Scholarship 2025/26
Established in 1983, the Chevening Programme is funded by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) and partner organisations, making it one of the world’s most prestigious international scholarship schemes.
Chevening Scholars represent more than 160 countries and territories forming a global network of over 60,000 influential alumni.
Awards are typically for a one-year Masters degree, in any subject and at any of the UK’s leading universities.
Chevening offers a unique opportunity for future leaders and influencers from all over the world to develop professionally and academically, network extensively, experience UK culture, and build lasting positive relationships with the UK.
The University of Exeter is delighted to host Chevening Scholars.
Applications for the 2025/26 Chevening scholarships, including the Chevening/University of Exeter MStrat Scholarship, closed on 5 November 2024.
You can see an overview of the selection process here .
The Shared Scholarships scheme is a joint initiative between the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) and UK universities, to support aspiring students from developing Commonwealth countries who would not otherwise be able to study a Masters programme in the UK.
Applications for the 2025/26 Commonwealth Shared Scholarships closed on 12 December 2024.
Commonwealth Scholarships are awarded to high-achieving students from eligible Commonwealth countries.
These scholarships aim to support individuals with outstanding academic potential to pursue Masters or PhD studies in the UK.
Applicants must apply through the national nominating agency in their home country or through a designated non-governmental organisation or charitable body.
Applications for Masters or PhD study starting in September 2025 closed on 15 October 2024.
Full information about their schemes is available on the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission’s website.
Country-specific schemes and other information
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Bangladesh
Bangladesh
These scholarships help make sure aspiring students from this country can pursue their studies.
*September 2025
*January 2026
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Canada
Canada
*September 2025 entry
University of Exeter Undergraduate Scholarships for China
China
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Egypt
Egypt
* September 2025
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Ghana
Ghana
University of Exeter Undergraduate Scholarships for India
India
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for India
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Indonesia
Indonesia
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Japan
Japan
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Kenya
Kenya
University of Exeter Undergraduate Scholarships for Malaysia
Malaysia
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Malaysia
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Nepal
Nepal
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Nigeria
Nigeria
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Pakistan
Pakistan
University of Exeter Undergraduate Scholarships for Singapore
Singapore
University of Exeter Undergraduate Scholarships for Thailand
Thailand
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Thailand
University of Exeter Undergraduate Scholarships for Turkey
Turkey
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Turkey
University of Exeter Postgraduate Taught Scholarships for Vietnam
Vietnam
Colfuturo-Ayudar
Colombia
COLFUTURO is a Colombian non-profit foundation established in 1991 with the support of the National Government and some of the most important private sector companies in the country.
COLFUTURO awards take the form of a scholarship loan of up to USD $50,000 for a maximum of two years.
Students may be awarded scholarships for 80% of the loaned amount, provided they accomplish certain requirements.
The University has partnered with COLFUTURO to consider their Masters level scholars for an additional donor award: the Ayudar Scholarship which provides a living stipend.
This award is intended to support the development of Colombian students who will use the expertise gained from completion of a University of Exeter taught Masters degree to make a positive social, cultural, business, or environmental impact in Colombia.
For more information and how to apply for Colfuturo funding, visit the COLFUTURO website
Colfuturo application deadline: 28 February 2025.
Hong Kong Scholarship for Excellence Scheme
Hong Kong
The HKSES aims to support local students to pursue studies in world renowned universities outside Hong Kong.
All awardees will receive a non-means-tested scholarship to cover their tuition fees, subject to a ceiling of HK$300,000 per annum, whichever is lower.
In addition, a means-tested bursary will be granted to students who may need additional support to pursue their study, subject to a ceiling of HK$200,000 per student per annum for covering living and other study-related expenses.
Eligible students who intend to apply for the HKSES are welcome to submit their application through the HKSES online application system.
Please visit the Education Bureau for more information.
Bolashak International Scholarship
Kazakhstan
The University of Exeter hosts Bolashak Scholars on our Masters and sometimes PhD programmes.
The Bolashak International Scholarship covers full tuition fees and living costs for postgraduate students studying an eligible subject.
Please visit the Bolashak Scholarship website for more details.
FUNED Mexico
Mexico
FUNED (Fundación Mexicana para la Educación, la Tecnología y la Cienciais) is a non-profit private foundation that grants loans of up to $30,000 towards tuition fees, including 10% scholarship, for Mexican nationals pursuing overseas Masters programmes.
The University of Exeter is delighted to have an agreement with FUNED which offers a 20% tuition fee discount to FUNED scholars.
You will need an offer letter from Exeter and scholarship applications are submitted via FUNED Please see the FUNED website for further information and full eligibility criteria.
PRONABEC Scholarship
Peru
National scholarship programme, funding high-achieving Peruvian students to study postgraduate masters and PhD degree courses.
Full details of the postgraduate scholarship can be found through the PRONABEC website.
Said Foundation
Syria, Palestine, Jordan and Lebanon
The University co-operates with the Said Foundation to offer scholarships to Jordanian, Lebanese, Syrian and Palestinian (including Palestinians inside Israel) nationals who are resident in the Foundation’s target countries.
The Foundation will consider Syrians residing elsewhere due to current circumstances in this country.
The scheme provides full scholarships for taught Masters courses.
Candidates must apply directly to the Foundation.
Further information about the scheme is available from the Said Foundation’s UK Scholarships page .
USA - Various
USA
The University is recognised by the US Department of Education for Title IV financial assistance.
The University's Federal School Code list number is G09442.
Advice on applications for federal aid is available on our Student Loan pages or may be sought from the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) website.
Disbursement of loan funding is made by cheque to the University on a termly basis.
Subject-specific scholarships
The University of Exeter’s faculties and departments may offer scholarships that are subject-specific.
International Summer School
There are several scholarships available to students wishing to study on our three-week International Summer School .
For more information about any scholarships or fees for our programmes, please contact iss@exeter.ac.uk
Looking for financial assistance
If you are seeking financial assistance, then you should first contact your own Ministry of Education who will be able to advise you on your own government’s schemes for students studying abroad.
The British Council in your country should also be able to tell you of any British scholarship schemes for which you are eligible.
If there is no British Council office, then contact your nearest British Embassy or High Commission.
Some international organisations also operate scholarship schemes, often for developing countries.
In addition, voluntary organisations such as religious bodies and charities sometimes award small bursaries.
Contact the appropriate organisations in your own country for more information.
If you are looking for a scholarship for UK study in 2025/26, you are encouraged to start in good time.
Research what you want to study, and which universities offer programmes in your area of interest.
Most scholarship opportunities offer partial funding, and schemes offering full funding are highly competitive and often have a long lead in time.
Connect with school counsellors, current university students, alumni, recruitment teams and agents.
When you have found a scheme, read the instructions carefully, check the eligibility criteria, write a tailored application (if necessary) and check for any required supporting information - don’t leave it until just before the deadline for submission.
Look out for scams – you don’t usually have to pay to apply for a scholarship.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/international/entry:
You can find entry requirements on the individual course pages of our main study websites: Undergraduate , Postgraduate Taught , Postgraduate Research .
Entry requirements are listed in UK qualifications such as A levels, however, a wide range of other qualifications are accepted and you can find grade equivalents for your country below.
See also: English language requirements .
Gain your English academic requirements for direct entry into the University through INTO University of Exeter's various pathways to an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
Please select from the lists below to view qualification and grade equivalents for your country or region.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/international/immigration:
The International Student Support Office can provide you with advice on any immigration and visa matters you may need help with.
Their website has more detailed information on applying for your Student visa .
Applying for your Student visa
Most non-UK students coming to study in the UK will need a Student visa , including EEA/EU/Swiss students.
International Student Support’s specialist immigration advisers provide advice and support for all Student visa applications starting with detailed information on our Student visa webpage and live webinars throughout the summer.
Your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS)
In order to apply for a Student visa you will need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number.
This will be issued to you once you hold an unconditional place at the University which has been firmly accepted (including payment of a deposit if required).
The University cannot issue a CAS more than 6 months before the start date of your programme and CAS issuing will usually begin approximately 5 months before your start date.
You do not need to contact us to start the process, it will begin automatically.
Our CAS issuing timeframes will be updated regularly here .
The CAS number is individual to you and you will need this to apply for your Student visa.
Each CAS issued is linked to the University/Institution which issued it, so you can only use a CAS to get a visa for that university (if you change your mind and wish to go to another university, you will need to get a CAS and visa for that institution).
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK, you will only be able to register at the University of Exeter using a visa which has been issued on the basis of a University of Exeter CAS.
If your programme of study requires you to have ATAS Clearance we will not be able to begin the CAS issuing process until your ATAS certificate is received.
If you require ATAS clearance you will be notified in your offer letter.
You must not apply for a Student visa or book a visa appointment without receiving your CAS statement.
The University cannot guarantee you will receive this in time for any appointments booked before your CAS is issued.
How do I get my CAS?
New Students: When you have met all the conditions of your offer and accepted your place at the University (including paying your deposit, if required ), the CAS Team will send you a CAS Contract and Data Check email containing a link to a form that you will need to complete and return.
This will happen automatically, so you do not need to contact the CAS team to request this.
Continuing Students: If you need to extend your visa during your studies, International Student Support are responsible for your new CAS and can also assist you with your visa application.
Please contact visaadvice@exeter.ac.uk to request a new CAS.
You will be required to complete and fully answer all the questions in the CAS Data Check and sign up to our terms and conditions.
Please ensure that you check the information carefully and add any necessary amendments– any mistakes could lead to delays or your visa being refused.
Once you have provided us with the correct information and documents and we are satisfied that you meet the Home Office and University of Exeter entry requirements, we will issue you with a CAS statement, which will include your CAS number, via your contact email address.
You do not need to submit the CAS statement with your visa application, but you will need to include the CAS number.
If we do not think that you will be able to make a successful visa application, or do not meet the University of Exeter requirements or if you have previously been refused a visa, it is within our rights to NOT issue you with a CAS.
How long will it take for my CAS to be issued?
Once you have firmly accepted your unconditional offer and paid your deposit (if required), the CAS process will begin automatically.
Issuing times will vary depending on the time of year and there can be delays in the peak summer period.
We publish and regularly update our CAS issuing timeframes here .
We will update your CAS to include any payments that you make for tuition fees or accommodation after the CAS has been issued.
However, this can take up to 5 working days, so we cannot guarantee that your CAS will be updated in time for your visa appointment if you make a payment within 5 days of the appointment date.
It is important that you bear this in mind when making payments for accommodation or tuition.
Can I get a combined CAS for Pre-sessional English and my degree programme?
Some students will be eligible for a combined CAS which will allow them to apply for a visa to cover both the INTO Pre-sessional English course and their degree programme.
You can only be eligible for a combined CAS if you:
You do not need to contact the CAS team to request a combined CAS.
You will automatically be assessed for eligibility by the INTO team and all eligible students will be contacted by the CAS team directly.
Academic progression
We will assess your application to ensure that it meets the Home Office’s rules on academic progression.
We will contact you if we need more information about your reasons for choosing the programme that you are applying to.
The requirement to demonstrate academic progression means that the University will not normally be able to offer anyone who requires a Student visa a place on a programme which is at a lower level than a programme previously studied in the UK.
If you have failed to complete the course that you most recently studied in the UK, you will not be able to extend your Student visa in the UK and will be required to return to your home country to apply for your visa.
Study time limits
The Home Office limits the time that students are permitted to spend studying in the UK on a Student (or former Tier 4) visa.
There are no time limits on study at postgraduate level.
In general, students are limited to a maximum of 5 years 11 months in the UK at Bachelor’s degree level.
eVisas and Biometric Residence Permits (BRPs)
Your visa will be issued as either a 90 day entry visa in your passport with a Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) card (which you will collect on arrival in the UK) or as an electronic visa called an eVisa.
Contact the CAS team
Email: casteam@exeter.ac.uk
Contact the International Student Support Office
Email: visaadvice@exeter.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/international/fees:
To gain a UK student visa, applicants must show that they have enough funds for both academic costs and living expenses.
Our offer letters state the annual tuition fee and a monthly allowance for living expenses.
Tuition fees for international students can be found on the course pages of our Undergraduate website .
Tuition fees for international students can be found on the course pages of our Postgraduate Taught website .
Tuition fees for international students can be found on the course pages of our Postgraduate Reseach website .
Please note that the prices listed are subject to change as we work to ensure an outstanding student experience.
Our current policy is to increase tuition fees in each year of study.
We will confirm our fees and any changes that will apply during your course on our student fees page .
If we make you an offer of a place, we will confirm your fees in writing via email.
For those studying for more than one year, our fees are expected to increase modestly in line with Consumer Price Inflation measured in December each year.
More information can be found on our Student Finance webpages .
In addition to the cost of tuition fees, when you apply for your visa you will also need to provide evidence that you can afford living expenses of at least £1,023 per month for 9 months, i.e.
a minimum of £9,207 (the actual amount spent may differ according to your needs).
These costs are an estimate and actual costs will vary according to your type of accommodation and lifestyle.
For further details of the cost of living in the South West, please see the International Students’ Guide and the Accommodation website .
Some departments provide partial scholarships to international students and you are advised to check the Funding website .
The Career Zone , our on-campus job shop in Exeter and Cornwall, provides assistance with finding part-time work where this is permissible.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/international/agents:
The University of Exeter has agreements with independent representatives, who would be pleased to tell you more about the University's programmes and assist you in making an application.
The University has entered into a commercial arrangement with the following education agents, who are our official representatives.
These include country specific agents listed under the country, as well as agents who operate globally and online - see 'Global' and 'Online' on the drop down list for details.
They are contracted to support qualified prospective students to choose a course, submit an application, find accommodation, and apply for a visa as appropriate to the prospective student’s circumstances.
If you enrol with us, we pay the education agent a commission/fee.
Education agents cannot make offers of a place on a programme at the University of Exeter; all decisions on applications are made by the university.
You can choose to use other education agents if you wish, but we spend resources training and helping these education agents to offer the best possible service, and we strongly encourage you to only use one of our official education agents listed here.
Please note, there have been examples of unofficial education agents claiming to represent us.
Please check this list to be sure you are using an official partner of University of Exeter.
You may find the Study UK Student Guide to choosing an education agent helpful when deciding which agency to work with.
The University of Exeter is committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework and pledge to create and maintain the highest standards of agent management, ensuring the UK remains a leading study destination for international students.
If you have any feedback or complaints about an agency please complete this form .
Please select from the list below to view details of agent representatives for your country or region.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/international/meetus:
We take part in a number of events, both in person and online, happening across a range of different countries throughout the year.
Please select your country from the list below to find out what events are happening near you, and to register your interest.
You can also find opportunities to visit us on one of our beautiful campuses .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/students/international/newstudents/beforeyouarrive:
Whether you are coming to the UK for the first time for a short period or you have visited before, International Student Community & Support can help you with what you need to do before you arrive and when you get here as a new international student.
Read on for our top tips you’ll need to think about before you arrive on campus.
The International Students Guide ‌ is full of information to help you plan before you arrive for your studies.
Want to know what living and studying on our campuses is like?
Ask our panel of experts in a live Questions and Answers session.
All non-UK nationals need permission to study in the UK.
Access our Student visa page and live webinars for details.
Find out about our International Peer Mentoring scheme on your campus.
Find out about different ways to get to your campus including our Airport Collection Service .
Read about the different accommodation available to you, whether in Exeter , Cornwall or in the private sector in Exeter or Cornwall .
Read about the UK's health system and make sure you have the cover you need before you need it.
Prepare for life in the UK by checking out our student blogs , Instagram , or our 'Living in the UK' pages.
Plan ahead for a cashless campus with a Caxton Currency card or an online bank account .
UK banking explained here .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/cornwall/study/internationalstudents:
Choosing to study in a new country is a big step - and we’re here to make it one of the most rewarding experiences of your life.
At the University of Exeter, Cornwall, international students are at the heart of our diverse and supportive community.
Whether you’re drawn by our world-class teaching and research, or by the stunning natural environment surrounding our campus, you’ll find a warm welcome and a unique place to live and learn.
A safe, scenic, and sustainable setting
Located on the beautiful southwest coast of England, Cornwall offers a peaceful and inspiring environment in which to study.
Think rugged coastlines, sandy beaches, charming towns, and access to nature at every turn.
Cornwall is also a place where innovation meets tradition.
As a hub for sustainability research and green enterprise, it’s the perfect setting for students who want to make a difference to the future of our planet.
A campus built for collaboration
Our Penryn Campus offers the perfect blend of modern facilities and natural beauty.
Here you’ll study alongside students from all over the world, guided by leading researchers across disciplines.
An affordable quality of life
While studying at any university comes with costs, many international students find Cornwall to be a more affordable option compared to major cities.
We offer dedicated support to help you manage your finances, including personalised budgeting advice, workshops, and guidance on accessing funding, scholarships, and emergency financial support during your studies.
You’ll also benefit from a wide range of student accommodation options - on campus and in the local area - catering to different budgets and preferences.
Whether you prefer a quiet flat or a lively shared house, you’ll find a place to call home.
A community experience
Beyond your studies, you’ll find countless opportunities to get involved and make the most of life in Cornwall:
International Student Experience in Cornwall
Staying connected to your culture
International student societies
Access the support you need
We know that moving to a new country comes with questions and challenges.
That’s why we offer a comprehensive range of support tailored to international students, including:
Visit our student support site to see all the help and guidance provided both before and after you join the University.
Gain the skills employers want
We’re committed to helping you build a career with purpose.
Across the campus, our programmes offer applied learning through local community projects, field work, research initiatives, and strong industry links.
You'll gain hands-on experience to make your studies come alive - and your CV stand out.
You’ll also have access to the Career Zone , which offers tailored support for international students, including:
Whether you plan to stay in the UK after graduation or return home, our support continues long after your course ends.
Employability support
Academic support
Multifaith Chaplaincy
Any questions?
Some of our students answer our most frequently asked questions to help you learn more about being an international student in Cornwall.
Watch the videos below to learn more.
If you have any other questions about studying here, please get in touch.
Can I access support?
How can I get connected?
What should I bring with me?
What if I want a taste of home?
Are there faith services?
Is it easy to get around?
What’s it like to study in Cornwall?
For more information and advice about applying to the University of Exeter as an international student, click here
Download the University of Exeter International Students Guide

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/international/contact:
For general enquiries, please contact our international team via our webform: Enquire online
If you have already applied and have a question about your application, please contact our admissions team via:
Web : Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 723044 (EU/International callers)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/into:
University of Exeter International Study Centre
Explore our programmes » Request a visit » Contact the team »
University of Exeter International Study Centre offers a range of courses to help you achieve the required standards to study your desired course at the University of Exeter.
Including the Exeter International Foundation, Undergraduate Degree with International Foundation, International Year One programmes,  Undergraduate Degree with International Year One, Postgraduate and English courses.
The team offer exceptional support services before, during and after your studies with us, so you can concentrate on your success story while we take care of the practicalities.
Exeter International Foundation
Improve your subject knowledge and English language skills to the level you need to begin Year 1 of 150+ undergraduate degrees at the University of Exeter, providing you meet the academic requirements.
Subjects include accounting and management to biological sciences, engineering and humanities.
Visit the course page »
Undergraduate degree with International Foundation (ICAS)
Develop your understanding of academic subjects related to your chosen degree as you improve your English language and study skills.
You’ll continue directly to Year 1 of your degree, provided you meet the academic requirements after the first year of your study plan.
If you do not meet the minimum entry requirements for this programme, you should apply for the Exeter International Foundation.
International Year One
The International Year One programmes provide academic preparation for entry to the second year of a relevant undergraduate degree at the University of Exeter.
The programme is equivalent to the first year of an undergraduate degree and is suitable for students who do not meet the academic and/or English language requirements for direct entry to the University.
Undergraduate degree with International Year One in Engineering  (ICAS)
Develop your understanding of engineering as you improve your English language and study skills you’ll continue directly to Year 2 of your degree, provided you meet the academic requirements after the first year of your study plan.
If you do not meet the minimum entry requirements for this programme, you should apply for an International Year One in Engineering.
Pre-Masters
Improve your subject knowledge and English language skills to the level you need to begin one of 40+ postgraduate degrees at the University of Exeter.
From business and education to data science and engineering.
Postgraduate Degree with One Term Pre-Master's for Business
Combine your one-term Pre-Master's preparation program on 9 business degrees in a single study plan.
Visit the course page
Pre-sessional English
This 18, 10 or 6 week English preparation course will provide you with short and intensive preparation in academic English.
It's suitable for you if you're already academically qualified and are due to start an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at the University of Exeter.
Please note: there may be a variation in English language requirements depending on your intended degree program.
Academic English
This course will help you reach the required level of Academic English for your chosen course of study at the University of Exeter.
Depending on your level of English you can choose between 1 term or 4 terms as is designed to meet your language learning needs, with classes at different levels to ensure you gain the language fluency and academic skills you need to succeed.
The University of Exeter International Study Centre (ISC) Progression & Placement Team supports ICS Exeter students on their journey to the University of Exeter.
The Placement Officer also helps students who are not able to meet the University’s requirements to find a place elsewhere if needed.
The Progression Team provides guidance and advice about the University’s programmes and the requirements that INTO students need to meet to progress successfully to the University.
They also organise workshops throughout the year for crucial times, such as applications to the University (including the UCAS process), module selection, or final results, as well as University engagement activities.
They are also supported by a team of International Student Ambassadors who act as a bridge between the University and ISC and can inform ISC students about their own experience at the University.
Find out more about progression »
The English language support team are there to help you when you progress to the University.
The team run courses, workshops and tutorials that can support your English language development during your degree or masters.
You can look to improve and develop your academic English and literacy skills for academic study, and to build communicative and intercultural competence for life in the UK.
Exeter is the ultimate student destination - a modern city with a rich history, and one of the UK’s best places to live, work, and study.
Explore the city's history as you stroll along its cobbles streets and through its Roman ruins.
Or enjoy an outdoor adventure at the nearby sandy beaches and beautiful national parks of the Devon countryside.
Find out more about living in Exeter »
"I chose INTO University of Exeter because of the rankings, but also because it was one of the safest of cities to live in.
The teachers are so nice, and, in every class, they make sure you understand what is being taught clearly.
Plus, if you had any questions, they were always willing to help.
I felt very supported.
The teachers also inspired me through their passion for the subject which gave me more motivation to study."
Alfred from Hong Kong
Completed International Year One Management and Business at INTO.
Currently studying Bsc Marketing and Management at University of Exeter
“I saw there was a foundation programme at Exeter which was very appealing to me as the centre was part of a campus university.
Now I am here I like the range of subjects you can learn, and I like the structure of the programme to help me to progress into finance at the University of Exeter.
The classes are also small, so it means you get more time with the teachers to help support you with your studies."
Muhammed from Malaysia
Studying Exeter International Foundation Programme at INTO
INTO University of Exeter are committed to enabling all students to communicate their views and suggestions to influence changes to our policies and procedures.
To facilitate this, INTO has a Student-Staff Liaison Committee (SSLC) for each programme which gives students the opportunity to voice their opinions about studying with us and to comment on a wide range of academic issues and possible developments.
SSLCs adhere to the Code of Practice laid down in the Teaching Quality Assurance Manual, which includes a standard agenda.
The Programme Office provides administrative support for this Committee.Each SSLC is presided over by a Subject Chair (a student elected by the Students’ Guild) and composed of elected student representatives from each class and appropriate staff representatives.
Training and support for Subject Chairs is provided by the Students’ Guild.
INTO Programme Managers meet with SSLC Subject Chairs on a regular basis, and Subject Chairs sit on INTO College Boards of Studies, INTO Education Committee and INTO Programme meetings.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/students/support-report:
Support and Report for students
At the University of Exeter we are an inclusive community, where everyone has the right to be treated with dignity and respect.
Harassment, including sexual harassment, bullying, intimidation and discrimination (for example racism and homophobia,) go against all we stand for and will not be tolerated.
If you've experienced or witnessed any of the above, we encourage you to tell us about it.
That way we can make sure you get the support you need and can take action where appropriate.
You may wish to report your experience if:
No matter how big or small you perceive what has happened to be, we are here to help.
Even if you are not sure, please submit a report and we will help get the right advice and support for you.
You can report something to us using the link below.
You can use this to ask for support, or report something, or both.
There are three ways to report an incident
It’s really important if something’s happened to you that you get support if you need it.
You can fill out the form to get support (and you can choose whether or not you also wish to report what's happened.)
Report and get support »
Why report?
Everyone at our University has the right to feel safe.
We have specialist staff to support and advise you on options for what happens next and how to access professional support.
We take reports of sexual misconduct, hate incidents, bullying and harassment very seriously and reporting an incident helps us to take the steps needed to help keep our community safe.
Even if it is someone you know or a friend who has shown harmful behaviours, it needs reporting to stop further incidents.
If we don’t know about harmful behaviour that’s happening, we can’t take action to prevent it.
Who can report?
Support and Report is the way for our students to tell us about an incident and get support.
It could be an incident you have experienced, witnessed, or you can talk to us on behalf of someone else.
You can tell us anonymously if you prefer.
We are able to take action if both you and the person who harmed you are members of the University community.
If the person who harmed you isn’t a member of the University, we can provide you with support and let you know about your options for reporting elsewhere.
What to report
If you have experienced anything that has made you feel uncomfortable, or caused you harm, you can report it.
This list is not definitive; and there can be overlap:
If you’re not sure that what you’ve experienced is listed, please do still get in touch.
If it’s had an impact on you, we’re here to help.
What happens if I report something?
Before taking any case forward, we’d meet with you and talk through what reporting involves.
It's a very important decision, and it's your decision - one you feel empowered to make.
We’ll also talk through what support is available for you.
If you decide to report the case for investigation, we will assess the risk presented by your experience and decide if any steps are needed to ensure you, the person responsible, and our wider community are safe.
A dedicated investigating officer will explore what occurred and determine whether there is evidence to support taking disciplinary action under our regulations.
This will mean speaking with you, the person responsible, any potential witnesses, and any evidence around what has happened.
Whether or not there is sufficient evidence to proceed with disciplinary action, we will let you know the outcome of your case.
Ready to report
You can report to us using this form
Report now »

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/globalexcellence:
Unlock your potential with the University of Exeter’s 2025/26 international scholarships.
Here, we offer exceptional teaching, learning and research opportunities from our beautiful locations in Southwest England.
We have more than £5 million in scholarships available for international fee-paying students applying to study with us in the 2025/26 academic year, including the Exeter Excellence Scholarships.
These awards recognise outstanding academic achievement and support students from around the world to take their place in our vibrant, global University community.
Applications are now closed for September 2025 entry .
Applications for eligible Postgraduate taught programmes starting in January 2026 will open on 1 September 2025.
Exeter Excellence Scholarships 2025/26 - Undergraduate, worth £3,000 or £5,000 each year, payable as a reduction of the international tuition fees.
Exeter Excellence Scholarships 2025/26 - Postgraduate Taught (Masters), worth £3,000, £5,000 or £10,000, payable as a reduction of the international tuition fees for the first year of study.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/englishlanguagerequirements:
English language requirements vary by programme, and our individual programme pages list the required profile for those who are not UK Nationals or who are not nationals of majority English-speaking countries determined by the Home Office.
Please note that we still require all undergraduate applicants to meet the standard GCSE English Language requirement, aside from Home Office requirements.
There are a number of ways you can meet our requirements.
We accept a number of English language tests though you can meet the condition through other qualifications held.
Our programme pages list the requirements as Profiles.
Once you know the required Profile for your chosen programme you can check that Profile page which will list the tests and qualifications that are acceptable, via the links below.
There are also more details on this page about other ways to meet the requirements.
Please note: All test scores are verified with the issuing body on receipt.
Any applicant found to have submitted a fraudulent score will have their application withdrawn.
If you wish to defer your entry to the University, we may ask you to re-take your test if your original offer was based on a test which will be out of date at the point of registration.
The University reserves the right to change minimum English Language requirements during an application cycle in-line with any compliance guidance released by the Home Office.
In the event of a change in Home Office policy which affects entry requirements, the University will notify affected applicants in writing.
Majority English speaking countries
The Home Office have a list of countries they have determined to be majority English-speaking, which we can use.
Nationals of a majority English-speaking country may be accepted without an English language qualification, to meet visa requirements, if during the application process it has been demonstrated that you are able to understand written and spoken English to the required level.
Please note that we still require undergraduate applicants to meet the standard GCSE English Language requirement for undergraduate programmes.
Those the Home Office deem to be acceptable are:
*Canadian nationals are exempt from English Language requirements.
Non-Canadian nationals are exempt from English if their entire degree has been studied at an Anglophone Canadian university.
Source - Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK
Taught in English
The following scenarios also meet our English language requirements:
Postgraduate Research study only
Further consideration will be given in the following scenarios.
In all instances approval granted is at the discretion of the Academic Faculty.
INTO University of Exeter offer Pre-sessional courses designed to improve your English language skills to the standard required for your chosen degree.
These tests are valid for 2 years prior to the start of the programme.
Details of requirements needed to progress are included in the Profile pages .
Find out more about the Presessional English course on the INTO website.
If you have taken any other acceptable test and wish to confirm if a pre-sessional English course is required or recommended, please contact us .
If you successfully complete a pre-sessional course at INTO University of Exeter and meet the progression requirements for entry to your academic programme of study, it is not necessary to undertake an additional IELTS Academic or equivalent test.
Please note that we do not accept pre-sessional courses delivered by other INTO centres or organisations.
The Centre also offers an Academic English course .
A student applying for a Student Visa who is not a national of a majority English speaking country is required to demonstrate a minimum proficiency in English language equivalent to B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference (CEFR) in speaking, reading, writing and listening.
The University’s minimum English Language requirements are specified above.
If you are coming to the university to study or conduct research for a period of less than 6 months (for example as an exchange student) you can do this using a Visitor Visa .
Credit-mobility students entering the UK on a Visitor visa will be exempt from the English Language requirements above if the Partner Institution completes the Exeter English Language Proficiency form confirming their student has the minimum proficiency in English language equivalent to B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference (CEFR).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/enquiry:
Enquiry
For prospectus requests please complete either our Undergraduate or Postgraduate prospectus request form.
Please only use this form if you have a question about applying to study at the University of Exeter.
If you are a current student with us, and are not applying for a new course (such as a Masters or a PhD), please use the Student Information Desk or contact your info point for all other enquiries.
If your question is about our online Masters programmes, please contact us here .
We look forward to receiving your enquiry.
In the meantime, you may wish to learn more about studying at the University of Exeter , explore our beautiful campuses, and find out about life as a student.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/entryrequirements:
Our programme pages and the UCAS website show entry requirements for each specific programme in A-Levels, IB and BTECs; however, a wide range of other qualifications are accepted.
If the qualifications you are taking are not listed, please contact the Admissions Office for further guidance.
Whilst the University endeavours to ensure entrance requirements are accurate at the point of publication, there are occasions where changes may be required.
However, the University guarantees not to make any changes which would adversely affect an applicant after the 1st September for each new admissions cycle.
For more information about applying, please visit our Applying page .
UK academic qualifications
International academic qualifications
English language requirements
Contact Admissions Exeter
The Admissions Office The Innovation Centre University of Exeter Rennes Drive Exeter, UK EX4 4RN
Web: Enquire online Phone: 0300 555 60 60* (UK callers) +44 (0) 1392 723044 (EU/International callers) Fax: + 44 (0) 1392 722479
*Standard rates apply
Contact Admissions Cornwall
The Admissions Office Peter Lanyon Building University of Exeter, Penryn Campus Treliever Road Penryn, Cornwall, UK TR10 9FE
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0) 1326 371801

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/applying:
These pages contain information on How to apply to the University of Exeter, including entry requirements and an application timeline detailing what you need to do and when.
Depending on your financial, personal or ethnic background, or what qualifications you may have undertaken, you may face additional challenges in both accessing Higher Education and throughout your studies.
Our Access Exeter section has range of resources to support you.
If you're ready, you can apply now via UCAS .
You can also find out what happens after you apply , including how we assess your application and what happens next.
If you can't find the information you're looking for please search our FAQs below, or contact our Admissions Office .
Show all FAQs
What is the University UCAS code?
The UCAS code for Exeter is EXETR and E84.
Does the University have a campus code?
There is no campus code for our campuses in Exeter (Streatham Campus and St Luke’s Campus).
If you are applying to the University of Exeter’s Penryn Campus, Cornwall the campus code is C.
Am I eligible to apply?
We welcome applicants with varied experiences and different backgrounds and we have a commitment that no student with potential is deterred from applying.
Entry requirements can be high but a wide range of qualifications and experience are considered.
Before you apply you should check that you meet
You can find further information about Our offer and decision in our applicants area.
If you would like advice on your eligibility, please contact the Admissions Office .
Are there any lower/upper age limits for applicants?
Occasionally the University admits students who are under the age of 18 years.
In most cases this will be a very temporary situation, as the student will be approaching their eighteenth birthday.
The University treats all its students as independent, mature individuals and students who are under the age of 18 years will be treated in the same way.
For further information, please see our policy for students under the age of 18 .
There is no upper age limit.
How do I apply?
For detailed information see our pages on Applying .
All applications for full-time study must be made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) using their Apply online system.
You can do this through your school or college, if they are registered with UCAS, or independently.
Full details and instructions can be found on the UCAS website .
You should apply for part-time programmes direct to the University’s Admissions Office and not through UCAS.
Application forms are available from the Admissions Office and should be returned between 1 September and 30 June immediately preceding the September entry.
You need to apply before 15 January to be guaranteed equal consideration with full-time applicants applying by the UCAS deadlines.
Applicants for the PGCE must apply through the Department for Education’s Apply for Teacher Training service.
Can I apply to my local university?
Yes.
Where you live does not determine which universities you can apply to so for example if you live in Exeter there is no reason why you can’t apply to the University of Exeter, if it offers the degree you are interested in.
Will where I went to school have an impact on my ability to get into university?
No, this is certainly not the case for Exeter.
Each application we receive is considered individually.
For most of our programmes we publish typical offers made as a range, and when deciding what offer to make for any one student, we take a range of factors into account, including predicted grades and other contextual information.
Does the University take into account parental participation at Higher Education?
Information on parental participation in HE may now be entered on the UCAS form but is not mandatory and we do not use it in making admissions decisions.
As part of our admissions policy , we take into account relevant contextual data that can be verified and which may have affected your academic attainment to date.
However, there is no guarantee that contextual information will necessarily mean the offer of a place, as each application will be considered holistically.
When should I submit my application?
Your application should normally reach UCAS between 1 September and the UCAS January equal consideration date.
We guarantee that all applications received by the UCAS deadline are given full, equal and careful consideration.
Applications received after this date will be considered on an individual basis, depending on availability of places.
To check if a programme is still available, please view the UCAS website.
Can I apply directly for entry into the second year based on my existing qualifications?
We will consider applications for second or later years entry subject to places being available with the exception of the following programmes which are normally only available for first year entry due to the nature of first year modules within the first year at Exeter:
For full details please see How to apply for details
Can I apply for a Study Abroad programme?
Applicants for the Study Abroad programme should apply directly to the University, and full details are in our Study Abroad at Exeter site.
Can I apply to study for one or two semesters?
Applicants for one or two semesters should apply directly to the University.
Applicants who wish to spend up to one year or semester in the UK as a recognised part of their course at their home institution should have completed at least two years of undergraduate study for admission to any of our programmes.
You must follow regular programmes of study as offered to full-time students (please refer to our subject and course pages for programmes of study).
A statement of academic record (transcripts) will be issued at the end of a module and sent, as requested, to your home institution.
To apply you will need to send us an application form and DBS form.
How many students attend your University?
There are currently approximately 16,026 undergraduate students and 4,186 postgraduates.
For further information about Exeter see our Facts and figures page.
Where can I find out about declaring criminal convictions and Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS)
Please refer to our DBS webpages for further information.
Why do you have places for International applicants but not UK?
We manage the total number of places available on our courses carefully to ensure the best possible experience for all our students .
We have separate targets for International and UK students, reflecting the strategies we have in place for their support academically and to encourage a vibrant and inclusive learning environment.
Although this varies by programme, we usually fill our UK places earlier in the admissions cycle than those for International.
International students often have to manage factors such as visas, travel arrangements and currency fluctuations which may delay or prevent their arrival.
This is why you often see International places available when Home are already filled.
All applications are considered carefully and on an individual basis.
Are UK students losing out to international students this summer?
We have separate target numbers for home and international.
Typically, we fill our home places more quickly than our international numbers, and there is more uncertainty as to whether overseas students can arrive at Exeter.
We therefore go on making offers a little longer for international, including across the summer period, when home recruitment is already finished.
Home and international students both have to meet our challenging entry requirements and we never admit any student without every reasonable prospect that they will succeed on their course.
We monitor the success of our entrants to make sure they are progressing well.
Why are some International grade requirements different to UK?
We make offers across a range to both UK and International students and the same academic standards apply to both.
If you consider the contextual offer levels set out alongside the standard offers in our Prospectus, you will see that UK as well as International students benefit from flexibility.
This is also about timing.
We finalise International and Home student recruitment at different points in the cycle.
This can sometimes lead to differences between the cohorts in the grades advertised through Clearing.
How long does it take for a decision to be made on an application?
The University operates a ‘gathered field’ procedure whereby applications received between September and January will be considered but a decision may not be conveyed until the end of January or later.
Where this procedure is operated, candidates will be informed accordingly.
Whilst the majority of our decisions will be gathered field, we may decide to release a small number of offers early for exceptionally well-qualified candidates who fall within the highest tiers, or those with other special circumstances.
Decisions on applications submitted by the January UCAS deadline will normally be made by the end of May.
On occasion it is not however possible for us to make all decisions by this date and it may take a little longer where we have applications (received by the January UCAS equal consideration deadline) where information is required to make a decision, interviews are taking place, or application numbers have increased.
I have declined your offer, but now wish to accept.
What can I do?
UCAS allows applicants to amend their choices up to 14 calendar days after their initial decision.
Applicants can amend their choice within UCAS Track during this period.
After 14 days changes can only be made with the permission of the institutions concerned.
I have already been to an Open Day - what is the difference between an Open Day and an Offer Holder Visit Day?
Do I need to visit again?
The general Open Days give a broad overview of the University and its extensive facilities, whereas the Offer-Holder Visit Days are more specific and relate closely to the course that you have chosen to study.
Each Faculty holds its own Offer Holder Visit Days, and academic staff will be available to discuss courses in detail.
If you have visited the University previously, it is not compulsory to visit again unless you are applying for a course which requires an interview.
Once I have been accepted on to my chosen course unconditionally, what happens next?
For all applicants holding an unconditional offer , we send out accommodation information from Easter onwards.
Joining instructions, giving details of enrolment, term dates and other useful information will be sent in August.
Once I have received my A level grades can I decide to go to my insurance choice university even if I do well enough to be accepted by my firm choice?
No.
It’s really important to understand how the application process works.
Once you have accepted an offer from a university as your firm choice, and if you achieve the grades that they ask for, you have three choices – either to go to that university, be released to go into clearing or to withdraw altogether and apply again the following year.
You cannot change your mind and decide to go to your insurance choice university.
This will only be possible if you are unsuccessful in being accepted to your firm choice and your insurance university accepts you instead.
Make sure whichever university you accept as your firm choice really is the one you want to go to!
When does term start?
See the full list of our term dates .
When/how is my accommodation allocated?
Accommodation is allocated to applicants whose status is Unconditional Firm and has submitted an accommodation application before the 31 July deadline.
Allocation of accommodation normally begins around the middle of August.
You do not need to inform the Accommodation Office that your place has been confirmed following the release of your results as this will be automatically done by the Admissions Office.
Please visit our Accommodation section for further information.
Can I defer my place?
If you would like to defer your year of entry, or if you have applied for deferred entry but would now like to bring your year of entry forward, you will need to email the Admissions team at ug-ad@exeter.ac.uk for Streatham programmes or ugadmissions-cornwall@exeter.ac.uk for Penryn programmes.
The Admissions team will review all requests and will endeavour wherever possible to approval requests, however a change to your start date may not always be possible, particularly for some of our most competitive programmes or programmes with specific caps on the number of places available.
Requests for a second deferral will normally be considered only in the most exceptional of circumstances.
I've lost my examination certificates, what should I do?
Please contact the Admissions office who will be able to provide advice on exactly which documentation is required and, if necessary, where evidence can be obtained.
Will I be called to interview?
A minority of courses require an interview, such as Medicine, Nursing, Medical Imaging, Applied Psychology and Dual LLB/JD with the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
If this applies to the course for which you are applying, it will be stated clearly in the Entry Requirements section of the relevant programme page.
Further details can be found in the Admissions Interview Policy .
What do I do if illness or family problems have affected my academic performance and I do not think I will meet the conditions specified in my offer?
Any contextual information which you think is relevant that may have affected your performance in respect of grades should be sent to the Admissions Office as soon as possible.
For further details please go to our Extenuating Circumstances page, where you will find more information and can complete our online ‌Applicant Extenuating Circumstances Form .
If illness or other factors have affected my academic performance and I do not complete any qualifications that are part of my conditional offer, but have a deferred place, will I be made the same offer for the following year?
If you do not satisfy the conditions of your offer by August 31 in the year of application, we are unable to confirm your deferred entry place, it will be necessary for you to withdraw and re-apply through UCAS for entry in the following year.
Whilst we will give due consideration to students who have been affected by illness or other extenuating circumstances, it is not our policy to guarantee an identical offer for any new application.
I want to change programme
If you are an applicant and have not yet registered on a programme with us and wish to be considered for a different programme to the one you applied for, please contact the ug-ad@exeter.ac.uk (putting 'Request to change my programme' in the subject field), quoting your UCAS ID number and the programme you would like to study.
If you are a registered Undergraduate student wishing to transfer to another programme, you will need to complete the change of course form via SID online .
Please note: you will also need to complete this form if you are applying to re-start your first year on a new programme of study.
Change of programme requests for Year 1 should be submitted by the fourth week after the start of the term.
Normally changes will not be permitted within the first year after this date.
Will you be flexible with my grades when results come if I have missed my offer but have the grades you are advertising in Clearing?
If you are holding an offer with us on a course which is now in Clearing, we will assess your achieved grades against those advertised in Clearing and make a decision in line with that.
Please note that subject requirements will still apply, and we may not be able to offer as much flexibility on those.
If your course is not in Clearing, it is possible we may be able to offer some flexibility on grades, but this will depend on your results relative to the grades achieved by other students holding offers for your chosen course.
What about SQA and other results that are released before A-Level results day?
All offer holders will be treated equally regardless of their qualification type.
So, if we have already been flexible on Clearing grades for your particular programme, we will extend the same flexibility to offer holders whose places are being confirmed later in July/August.
You can find out more about qualification equivalencies here .
How will insurance choice candidates be treated?
If you are holding an insurance offer at Exeter, we will review your results to see if you meet all our conditions or not.
If you do, your place will be confirmed.
If you do not, we will consider your results carefully alongside of all the others who have missed their offers and alongside those looking for a Clearing place.
Basically, it will depend on how strong your results are relative to the other candidates who want to come to Exeter.
I am worried that there will be people with a wide variety of grades on my course.
It is actually more common than you might imagine for there to be entrants with a variety of grade profiles and, also, different qualification types (e.g.
BTEC, Access, T-Levels, and all sorts of combinations).
We also make contextual offers which are at two or three grades below our standard published requirements.
We know that contextual entrants achieve broadly in line with everyone else because we provide excellent student support and focused teaching and learning.
If we confirm your place, we are confident you will have an appropriate mix of support and challenge in your degree programme.
If I want to do a Law degree do I have to study Law at A level?
Entry requirements for all programmes differ from university to university, however you do not have to take a Law A level to do Law at university, and similarly with studying business and a whole range of other degree subjects.
Some programmes do require particular A levels and you need to make sure you know what these are before you apply.
To find out the entry requirements for any university or programme that you might be interested in applying to visit the UCAS site .
Do my GCSE results matter once I’ve moved on to A levels?
This is one to do some research on.
Some degree programmes may require you to have achieved certain grades in subjects such as English and Maths at GCSE as well as meeting the grades through your further education.
For full details on our entrance requirements please see Entry requirements .
Are all English degrees, for example, the same regardless of the university I study at?
Programme content and module options can vary significantly from university to university.
In order to ensure that what you are applying to study is what you expect it to be you will need to do some research.
Most universities will provide details of the course structure and the modules available on their websites.
What are the entrance requirements for mature students?
Mature students who wish to study full-time should also apply through UCAS.
Whilst we recognise that mature students may offer differing qualifications and experience which will be taken into account, you should normally have undertaken some recognised systematic course of study (eg, Access, Open University credits, or Advanced GCE) within the last three years.
Relevant work experience may also be considered towards your application, and you should therefore supply full details with your application.
If you are considering applying as a mature student, you can find further information in our Mature Students section .
Do you accept General Studies?
Whilst we recognise that students may be taking General Studies A level as part of their academic profile, we do not include General Studies as part of any conditional offer.
Do you take into account the fact that I am doing a fourth A level (excluding General Studies)?
We take into account all academic qualifications that students are offering but any conditional offer will be made over 3 GCE A level subjects and, where relevant, any specific A level subjects that we require.
My qualification is from outside the UK - will it be acceptable to study at Exeter?
The University also recognises a wide range of qualifications taken outside of the UK.
If you are studying outside the UK, the grading system and level of qualification in your country may not be the same as in the UK.
If you are unsure whether your qualification meets our entry requirements, you can find out more information from our entry requirement s pages and our international entry requirements page, where you can select the country or region in which you have studied.
Alternatively, you can contact us .
You can find further information about academic and English language entry requirements in our international students section .
Will the University consider Accredited Prior Learning (APL)?
It may be possible for you to have your learning from prior qualifications and experience accredited towards your degree programme.
To be considered you will need to send information on your APL to the Admissions Office (along with information on the programme you are interested in studying) by completing either
These should be submitted to our Undergraduate Admissions team at ug-ad@exeter.ac.uk .
The Admissions Team will liaise with the Academic College to confirm whether any of your prior learning can be accredited to your new programme of study.
How good does my English need to be?
Please visit our Entry requirements section for full details.
Do you offer any Foundation courses?
We offer an International Foundation programme for students aged 17 or over who have completed secondary education and intend to study at a University in the UK.
Successful students will reach the level required in English and their subject area for entry onto undergraduate courses, and will be awarded an Exeter University Foundation Certificate.
We also offer the following foundation programmes for UK students:
Does the University offer part-time and/or distance learning courses?
There are two ways that you can choose to study part-time with us.
Firstly, many of the undergraduate degree programmes described on our site are potentially available by part-time study.
We advise you to check with the relevant College to ensure that it is possible with respect to timetabling arrangements before you make a formal application.
For advice on the structure and availability of programmes in your chosen area of study you should contact the Admissions Tutor or the Head of the College/discipline concerned.
Secondly, you may wish to study one of our distance learning programmes.
Application forms are available from the Admissions Office and should be returned between 1 September and 30 June immediately preceding the October entry.
What if I am offering a 'non-standard' qualification?
We recognise a wide range of qualifications.
If you are presenting 'non-standard' qualifications and the equivalencies cannot be found in our
then please contact us , providing as much detail as possible.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees:
Fees for students starting their course in 2026 have yet to be set.
We will post the fees for 2026 entry on this page later this year.
2025 fees for UK students
On 4 November the Secretary of State for Education announced in Parliament that the government intends to introduce increases in tuition fees for UK students studying in England, and in maintenance loans for English students, for the 2025/26 academic year.
These proposed increases are in line with inflation and are in recognition of the financial pressures that increased costs have placed on both universities and students.
For full-time UK undergraduate students studying in England, the tuition fee will rise to £9,535 per year, an increase of £285, and for English undergraduate students studying outside London, the maximum maintenance loan will rise to £10,544, an increase of £317.
Arrangements in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales are different and managed by the relevant funding agency.
The increases, which are subject to further parliamentary approval, are proposed to come into effect from 1 August 2025 and will apply to both new and returning students.
It is the University of Exeter's intention to charge tuition fees at the new higher rate (with any subsequent further changes to the cap) for each year of your studies.
You can read more about these changes here .
It is important to note that, for the vast majority of UK students, tuition fees are paid directly to the University by the Student Loans Company and students only begin to repay if they earn over the earnings ‘threshold’.
The amount you repay for fee and living cost loans each year depends solely on what you earn, not on what you borrow, and therefore your expected monthly repayments will not increase as a result of this change.
Martin Lewis, the Money Saving Expert, has a helpful explainer here .
The only exceptions to the standard fee are:
*assuming current external funding arrangements continue
Information about how your fee status is determined can be found below.
2025 fees for International students
The tuition fees for international students starting their course in autumn 2025 are:
BMBS Medicine
£47,500
Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences (including Law)
£24,700
Accounting, Finance, Business & Management, Economics and Marketing
Biosciences, Ecology and Conservation, Geography, Medical Sciences (including Medical Imaging, Nursing and Neuroscience), Psychology
£30,900
Flexible Combined Honours
£25,500
Mathematics (including Mathematics with Accounting/Economics/Finance/Management)
Computer Sciences, Engineering, Physics (including Combined Honours Maths & Physics), Geology, Mining and Natural Sciences (Earth and Environmental Sciences)
Sport and Health Sciences
Please note that the prices listed above are subject to change as we work to ensure an outstanding student experience.
We will confirm our fees and any changes that will apply during your course on this web page.
For those studying for more than one year, our fees are expected to increase modestly in line with Consumer Price Inflation measured in March each year.
Please refer to the international students section for full details of international student tuition fees and guide to living costs.
Emergency financial assistance is available for international students via the Fund for International Student Hardship (FISH).
Details can be found by following the link to the International Students section of the Student Finance website .
Will I pay the ‘Home’ or ‘International’ fee?
The fees charged for study at the University of Exeter fall broadly into two categories:
Your fee status classification depends on whether you meet certain criteria such as having ‘settled status’ in the UK and meeting a three year ordinary residence requirement.
Full information can be found on the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website.
From 1 August 2021 the eligibility rules for Home fee status have changed for EU Students.
Please refer to the UK Government website to see how this change affects you.
Where EU students are not eligible for Home fees, they will be required to pay International fees.
Due to the Common Travel Area arrangement, Irish Nationals living in the UK or Ireland will be eligible for Home fee status; further information around eligibility is available at the above UKCISA link.
Please note that the University is unable to determine the fee status of an individual until after an application has been received and we are in receipt of full information concerning individual circumstances.
This will then inform the decision as to whether a fee status assessment should be conducted.
What happens if I think my fee status is incorrect?
If you have received an offer and you think your fee status is incorrect you have 28 days, from the date of your offer, to query your status.
To query your fee status within the 28 day period please contact us at ad-feestatus@exeter.ac.uk stating your full name, Exeter Reference number (or UCAS personal ID), programme for which you have been made an offer and providing details of why you think the fee classification is incorrect.
Can I request an appeal?
If you have queried your fee status within 28 days of receiving your offer and disagree with the outcome, you may request an appeal.
Appeals can be submitted either by the applicant or by a nominated decision-maker, and must be made in writing to the Admissions Fees, Funding and Finance Officer at ad-feestatus@exeter.ac.uk .
You should only submit an appeal if one or both of the following apply:
The appeal will be reviewed by a panel comprising at least two members of staff:
Each panel member will review the case independently before meeting to discuss their conclusions.
The final decision will be communicated in writing to the applicant by the Admissions Fees, Funding and Finance Officer (or their representative).
I expect my circumstances to change prior to the first day of the first academic year of the course.
Will my fee status change?
We base our decisions on an applicant’s residence status at time of application and do not hold applications or make offers conditional on fee status.
If you are classified as an international student but your situation changes before you have received a decision on your application or after receiving an offer we will conduct a fee reassessment.
You will need to submit your new information before 1 September in the year the programme starts, e.g.
evidence of British Citizenship or Indefinite Leave to Remain being granted.
Can my fee status change after the course has started?
There are some circumstances where fee status can change in subsequent years, however this is very unusual.
If you think you have become entitled to ‘Home’ fees in time for the next year of your course please contact us at ad-feestatus@exeter.ac.uk giving full details of your updated status.
The full eligibility criteria can be found on the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website.
Information for Channel Islands/Isle of Man students
From the 2021/22 academic year, new and continuing students living in the Crown Dependencies (the ‘Islands’), who come to England solely for the purposes of higher or further education study, will be eligible for home fee status, on the basis of 3 years’ residency in the UK or the Islands.
The UK Government confirmed this eligibility in December 2020 .
For information on support available to you for tuition fees and living costs you should contact your island education offices.
Please visit our Student Finance webpage for Channel Islands students for more information.
In addition to tuition fees and living costs , your programme of study may have other costs associated with it, such as laboratory equipment or field trips.
Where possible, we've outlined these costs on specific course pages .
Visit our scholarships and funding website »
Do I have to pay upfront, and what will the repayments be like?
You will not have to pay for the cost of your tuition up front.
You can take out a tuition loan which you don’t have to start repaying until you are earning more than £25,000* a year.
Repayment rates on loans will be at 9% of salary over £25,000*.
The government will meet the cost of writing off any remaining debt after 30 years.
*subject to confirmation from Government
Can I get assistance paying for the fees?
We are committed to attracting and supporting the most talented students to the University of Exeter, irrespective of your financial background.
As part of these arrangements, we will be offering financial assistance in the form of reduced fees and bursaries to encourage more applications from students from disadvantaged backgrounds.
We also provide expert financial advice and guidance to offer the best practical help and support possible to ensure you are able to make the most of your time at Exeter.
Find out more about financial support .
Are there any exceptions to the standard tuition fees?
What is a Degree Apprenticeship?
One major benefit of choosing a Degree Apprenticeship is that the cost of the degree is met through the apprenticeship scheme so there are no fees for you to pay; you'll also earn a salary throughout your studies.
These degrees offer great employment prospects, as you'll have gained valuable work experience prior to graduating.
Partners have included IBM, the Met Office, Renishaw, BT, Laing O'Rourke and Airbus.All of our Degree Apprenticeships lead to full Exeter degrees.
Find out more about Degree Apprenticeships .
How will the income from tuition fees be invested in my education?
Funding from tuition fees will continue to be invested in the things that matter to students, to maintain our exceptional student experience and reputation as one of the best higher education institutions in the UK and worldwide.
We are committed to ensuring that if you have the potential to thrive at the University of Exeter, you will be able to study here irrespective of your background and financial circumstances.
We continue to work with the Students’ Guild and FXU to ensure we have the right support in place to give you the best possible opportunities to achieve outstanding academic results and to secure graduate level employment.
Our investment in student facilities in recent years has included £145 million in learning spaces, research facilities, a students’ services centre and refurbished library facilities; £130 million in student residences; and £20 million in improving our sports parks.
We have also continued to invest in recruiting additional world-leading academic staff to deliver truly exceptional education and research.
At our Penryn Campus we are investing in the Penryn Heart Project, a Postgraduate Centre and a new Sports and Family Centre.
We will continue to work closely with the Students’ Guild and FXU in order to identify the future areas of investment based on student feedback.
Each year both students’ unions are involved in the University’s budgeting processes to ensure that student priorities are recognised in our business and investment plans: for example, in the last year we have delivered improved Muslim prayer space and increased investment in the student wellbeing service as a direct result of our discussions with student representatives.
My chosen degree programme includes a year abroad/in industry.
What are the fees for that year?
Approximately 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
Approximately 20 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
If you are studying abroad for a semester or other portion of time less than a full year, you will pay the full year fee.
If I study an Integrated Masters (e.g.
an MSci), will it impact my future PGT loan application?
Yes: students who have received undergraduate loan support from SFE/SFW/SFNI/SAAS (i.e.
tuition fee loans or loans for living costs) towards an integrated Masters course are ineligible for a future PG Masters Loan from Student Loans Company (SLC).
This also applies if your course changed part-way through and you graduated without obtaining a master’s level award.
It may be possible to obtain further funding if you demonstrate compelling personal reasons (CPR) to the SLC for having not completed the previous course.
The Guild Advice team can offer advice and support when submitting a CPR request to the Student Loan Company: contact the Guild Advice team here .
For more detailed information relating to the above rule please see PG - SFE Masters guidance AY 2324 , Page 26, Section 4.2.
Where can I go if I have any further questions about fees?
There is more information about our tuition fees and the financial support available to students on our Student Finance website .
If you have any specific questions, please contact sid@exeter.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/study:
Creating an outstanding learning and teaching environment for students is at the heart of everything we do
We strive to make our teaching inspirational and your learning exceptional.
The staff who teach you at the University of Exeter don't just give lectures; they also work on world-class research, creating new knowledge and expanding our understanding of the world and ourselves, conducting the experiments, writing the articles, and authoring the books that other people teach from.
You will be taught by experts and be part of a culture that is inspired by research, discussing the very latest ideas in seminars and tutorials and may become an active member of a research team.
Students are integral to research capability
Professor Geoff Nash discusses the important part research plays in our Natural Sciences programme.
The role of business within learning
Dr Esther Reed explains how students get involved in her Theology & Business Ethics module.
Student led research projects
Professor Craig Williams explains how students are involved with leading research projects in Sport and Health Sciences.
We are proud to work in partnership with our students to continuously improve the education and student experience.
Students volunteer to run change projects and receive training from University staff to help them succeed.
Additionally, all degree programmes have student representation through Student-Staff Liaison Committees, where your feedback on teaching and learning can be embedded into continually improving teaching.
Supporting your learning
To help you reach your full potential, we offer a variety of skills programmes, workshops, online and physical resources, all designed to develop your skills so that you can thrive.
The support on offer includes areas such as:
Academic personal tutoring
Your personal tutor will be available to discuss any problems with you, academic or otherwise.
Your tutor will also support you to identify specific advice relating to your programme of study.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/contact:
Telephone the main University switchboard on: +44 (0) 1392 661000 Or Enquire online
Visiting the University
Please see our pages on Open Days and visiting or contact the
Phone: 01392 727272 (UK callers) + 44 1392 727272 (EU/International callers) Web: Enquire online
Student finance
Phone:
Email: pre-enrolment@exeter.ac.uk
General information for international students
Phone: + 44 (0) 1392 723405 Web: Enquire online
University of Exeter Northcote House The Queen’s Drive Exeter UK EX4 4QJ
Admissions Office
Web : Enquire online Phone: 0300 555 60 60 (UK callers)* +44 (0)1392 723044 (EU/International callers)
* Calling us on an 0300 number will cost you the same as a call to a standard landline number starting with 01 and 02.
Email: ExeterAO@exeter.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0) 1326 253639 Email: accommodation@fxplus.ac.uk
Disability support
Student Services Centre University of Exeter Forum Stocker Road Exeter UK EX4 4SZ
Phone: +44 (0) 1392 723880 Email: AccessAbility@exeter.ac.uk
Student Services Penryn Campus Penryn, Cornwall UK TR10 9FE Phone: +44 (0) 1326 370460 Email: accessibility@fxplus.ac.uk
INTO University of Exeter Centre
INTO University of Exeter Building Stocker Road Exeter UK EX4 4PY Phone: +44 (0) 1392 724282 Email: into@exeter.ac.uk
Sports
University of Exeter Sport Stocker Road Exeter Devon EX4 4QN
Telephone: 01392 724452 General enquiries: exetersport@exeter.ac.uk
St Luke's Sports Centre University of Exeter Heavitree Road Exeter Devon EX1 2LU Telephone: 01392 724940
01326 370770
Email: fitnesscentre@fxplus.ac.uk
Students' Union
Devonshire House Stocker Road Exeter UK EX4 4PZ Phone: +44 (0) 1392 723528 Email: infopoint@exeterguild.com
Penryn Campus Penryn, Cornwall UK TR10 9FE Email: info@thesu.org.uk https://www.thesu.org.uk/advice/
Wellbeing Services
For mental health advice and support and student counselling:
Reed Mews Wellbeing Centre University of Exeter Streatham Drive Exeter EX4 4QP Email: wellbeing@exeter.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/contact/sign-up:
Our green campuses in Devon and Cornwall amongst the most beautiful in the UK and are home to 22,000 students from over 130 countries.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/contact/faqs:
There is no campus code for our campuses in Exeter ( Streatham Campus and St Luke’s Campus ).
If you are applying to the Penryn Campus , Cornwall the campus code is C.
Full details and instructions can be found on the UCAS website.
Applicants for the PGCE must apply through UCAS Teacher Training (UTT).
Your application should normally reach UCAS between 1 September and 15 January in any given application year.
Applicants for Medicine must apply between 1 September and 15 October.
Decisions on applications submitted by 15 January will normally be made by the end of March.
On occasion it is not however possible for us to make all decisions by this date and it may take a little longer where we have applications (received by 15 January equal consideration deadline) where information is required to make a decision, interviews are taking place, or application numbers have increased.
UCAS allows you to amend your choices up to 14 calendar days after your initial decision.
You can amend your choice within UCAS Hub during this period.
Each College holds its own Offer Holder Visit Days, and academic staff will be available to discuss courses in detail.
If you wish to defer you will have to contact the Admissions Office .
Please quote your UCAS ID number in all correspondence.
A minority of courses require an interview, such as Medicine, Nursing, Medical Imaging, Applied Psychology, Drama, and Physics.
If you are an applicant and have not yet registered on a programme with us and wish to be considered for a different programme to the one you applied for please contact the Admissions Office , quoting your UCAS ID number and the programme you would like to study.
If you are a registered Undergraduate student wishing to transfer to another programme, please contact the Admissions Office to obtain the appropriate form.
Please note: you will also need to obtain your form from Admissions if you are applying to re-start your first year on a new programme of study.
If the change you are requesting is to a programme in the same College please contact your College.
The peak time for change of programme requests for Year 1 is by the fourth week after the start of the term.
Does my family have to be well off for me to apply to certain universities?
Your family income does not impact on which university you can apply to.
Where it does have an impact is in the amount of financial support you can get, both directly from universities and from the government.
To find out more about financial support visit the government's student finance pages , for individual university funding contact universities directly and to search for a whole range of scholarships on offer try the funding pages of www.scholarship-search.org.uk or other scholarship search sites.
How much are tuition fees?
When/how do I pay?
Our tuition fees Tuition fees and funding section provides summary information on current fees.
For latest details regarding fees and payments please see our Student Finance site .
You may also find the information on the government student Finance site helpful.
I live outside the UK, but I am a British citizen, what fees do I pay?
Fee Status is determined using the UKCISA guidelines .
As a general principle, applicants will normally be regarded as international for fee purposes unless they have been ordinarily resident in the EEA for three years immediately before the start of the academic year in which the course begins.
More information on fee status can be found on our Student Finance pages .
For further information for students living or working overseas please visit the Student Finance England website for their page for Britons living abroad , or the University of Exeter’s International Students site .
Will taking out a student loan have a negative impact on my ability to get a mortgage in later life?
The Council for Mortgage Lenders advise that a student loan is very unlikely to materially impact on an individual’s ability to get a mortgage.
Do you offer any scholarships?
We are committed to ensuring that high achieving students will be able to study for an undergraduate degree at the University of Exeter irrespective of their financial background.
We offer an Access to Exeter Bursary which is available to students with a household income below £25,000, which does not have to be paid back.
For further information please see Financial support .
How much will I have to pay if I choose a degree which includes a year abroad or a year-long industrial placement?
If, as part of your four-year degree programme, you spend a full academic year studying or working abroad you will pay a reduced fee of £1,385 (or 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year).
If you spend a full year on a work placement (in the UK) you will pay a reduced fee of £1,850 (or 20 per cent of the maximum fee).
How much will I have to pay if I choose a degree which includes a semester abroad?
My degree involves a lot of field work.
Will I be expected to pay extra for this?
Your tuition fee will cover the cost of participation in compulsory field trip/s, although you may be required to pay a contribution depending on your choice of field location.
If you choose to participate in additional, optional field trip/s or field work, you may be expected to contribute to costs.
Bursaries will be available to help eligible students pay for these additional optional costs.
What support is available for part-time students?
Part-time students will still have to pay tuition fees on a pro-rata basis but can also apply for a tuition fee loan to cover their tuition costs, again on a pro-rata basis.
To be eligible for a tuition fee loan, this must generally be the first time you’ve studied on a higher education degree and you must complete a minimum of 25 per cent of the equivalent full-time course load per year.
Part-time students can’t get a grant for their living costs.
We know that part-time and mature students often have more complex financial queries that they need to discuss before they make the decision to go to university.
Prospective students can access impartial advice from the Students’ Guild Advice Unit.
You can telephone them on 01392 723520 to make an appointment, email them at studentadvice@exeterguild.com or visit the Student’s Guild Advice Unit website .
What undergraduate courses does the University offer?
The University offers a wide variety of degree programmes at undergraduate level and you can find the latest information in our individual subject and course pages .
We take into account all academic qualifications that students are offering but any conditional offer will beis made over 3 GCE A level subjects and, where relevant, any specific A level subjects that we require.
If you are unsure whether your qualification meets our entry requirements, you can find out more information from our entry requirements pages and our international entry requirements page, where you can select the country or region in which you have studied.
These should be submitted via our online enquiry form .
We recognises a wide range of qualifications, if you are presenting 'non-standard' qualifications and the equivalencies cannot be found in our

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/accounting:
Accounting and Finance at Exeter
Accounting and Finance is one of the key functions in any organisation.
The information that accountants prepare informs the decision-making process throughout the organisation, and forms the basis of external communications about how the organisation is performing.
As such, an accounting degree opens a number of career opportunities including accountancy, management consultancy, banking and finance, with qualified accountants often found at the highest levels of organisations in all sectors around the world.
At the University of Exeter Business School, there is no requirement for you to have studied accounting and finance before coming to us; our course is designed so that no prior knowledge is necessary or assumed.
We have extremely strong links with professional firms and institutes, including the CFA Institute, the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment and several professional accounting bodies including ACCA, ICAEW, ICAS, CIMA and CIPFA.
In addition to ensuring you acquire subject specific skills, our programmes are designed to help you develop a broad range of personal skills and knowledge, essential for capitalising on attractive 21st century career opportunities.
They provide the flexibility to choose from a range of optional modules and select topics that match your specific interest and career requirements.
As with other undergraduate programmes in the Business School, you have the opportunity to study overseas or to undertake a period of industrial experience.
Find out more about studying at the University of Exeter Business school
Professional exemptions/credit for prior learning
Depending upon modules studied and performance, graduates of BSc (Hons) in Accounting and Finance or BSc (Hons) Accounting and Business may obtain credit towards the qualifications of the following leading professional accounting and finance bodies:
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)
Up to 8 papers possible depending on modules taken.
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)
Maximum 9 papers possible depending on modules taken.
Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA)
Up to 7 exemptions depending on modules taken.
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS)
Up to 5 papers possible from the Test of Competence level depending on modules taken.
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)
Exemption from up to 4 CIMA exams (E1, P1, F1, and Operational Case Study Exam) depending on modules taken (in addition to the basic papers BA1 – BA4).
CIMA exemption information

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/anthropology:
You may also be interested in
Anthropology at Exeter
Anthropology is the study of humans, human behaviour and societies, and is one of the most exciting, relevant and varied subjects you can study at university.
At Exeter we have a contemporary approach grounded in numerous social settings and institutions, including NGOs, hospitals, Welsh farming communities, African wildlife centres, Hindu Ashrams, English multicultural neighbourhoods and warzones in the Middle East.
You’ll benefit from access to the latest thinking and resources as your teachers contribute research to current debates.
Based in the Department of Sociology, Philosophy and Anthropology, our unique environment encourages a productive fusion of the three subjects.
This creates cross-over research domains such as the field of music, aesthetics and cognition, which researchers with diverse disciplinary training pursue together.
The lecturers have really made me fall in love with my subject, especially as I had no prior experience of Anthropology.
I’ve been incredibly grateful for my personal tutor who I’ve gone to over the years and the department as a whole is really supportive.
I felt at ease during my year abroad in Australia knowing I could contact them when I needed them.
Izzy
Studying Anthropology with Study Abroad

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/arabislamic:
Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies
Our Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies is one of Europe’s most renowned centres for research and teaching in the Arab and Muslim world.
Facilities include a computerised language lab, lecture theatres, seminar rooms, satellite TV for viewing Middle Eastern channels and an exhibition space.
Arabic is one of the world’s major languages, part of the bedrock of Islam, and key to understanding the rich culture and history of the Middle East.
We offer courses in Arabic and Middle East languages as well as comprehensive study of the literatures and cultures of the wider region.
This includes the history, politics, economies, societies and anthropology of the region, and almost every aspect of Islamic studies – from medieval to modern Islam.
I chose Exeter because of the combination of inspiring lecturers, interesting modules, exciting year-abroad prospects and it being an utterly beautiful place to study.
I love the diversity of my degree and thus inevitably the people I have met and continue to meet along the way.
There is so much flexibility in terms of how you can tailor your degree to what you want to get out of it, for me it's become a living breathing part of my life!
Read more from Daisy,
Daisy,
studying Arab and Islamic Studies with Spanish

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/archaeology:
Archaeology at Exeter
Archaeology at Exeter is an exciting and varied subject combining fascinating academic study with practical, hands-on experience.
You can study a diverse range of topics from human evolution, or the emergence of classical civilisations, to the creation of today’s landscapes.
Our approach to archaeology is vibrant and interdisciplinary, as we work closely with researchers in subjects including Ancient History, Anthropology, Biosciences, Geography and History.
We will teach you to consider the evidence, assess it, and draw your own conclusions.
You will become confident in expressing your ideas on paper and through presentations, while writing a dissertation and producing portfolios of coursework will teach you to work independently.
You will be able to make use of our vast reference collections of artefacts, and we often use experiments in our teaching about ancient technologies (eg, flint knapping, pot making, bronze smelting and casting).
We also encourage you to participate with the active, student-led Archaeology and Forensics Societies who arrange field trips, social events and excursions.
Our teaching programme covers the key aspects of British and European Archaeology, but our expertise extends across the globe with modules covering North and South American prehistory, North Africa and Asia.
By joining our Archaeology Department, you will become part of a community where staff and students engage in projects all over the world.
We currently have research links and field projects in the UK and throughout Europe, as well as across the world including Egypt, Kazakhstan, India, Sri Lanka, USA, Brazil, Argentina, Japan and China.
Our department has a relaxed, friendly atmosphere and you will benefit from small group teaching and plenty of contact with staff.
We are situated in the heart of the diverse landscape of the West Country, close to some of Britain’s richest archaeological locations at Dartmoor, Exmoor and the Somerset Levels.
We have well-established links within the South West, which include local and national museums, field units, country and national parks.
Our staff have broad research interests, covering prehistory and the ancient, Medieval and modern periods in Britain, Europe and worldwide.
We have specialists in past environments, landscapes, settlements, burials and artefacts.
You will benefit enormously from our research, being taught by high-quality academic staff, who are all internationally recognised in their fields.
You will become part of a thriving research culture which feeds directly into your undergraduate teaching, as our staff develop exciting programmes, modules and field work opportunities.
Our active research has contributed to the department’s international standing; we rank 3rd in the UK for worldleading or internationally excellent research in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework.
Choosing to study a BA Archaeology at the University of Exeter has been one of the most successful decisions of my life.
I was born in Romania but completed an International Baccalaureate in Canada before choosing a university and it was a difficult decision for me.
But what really stood out and made me certain of my decision was the world-class teaching provided by an array of lecturers with very different backgrounds coupled with the beautiful campus.
On top of this, I have been able to be a part of amazing opportunities such as the internship at the Digital Humanities Lab and participate in field projects as part of my degree in the United States and Romania.
I have been so pleased with what the university has to offer that I decided to continue my studies through a Masters in Roman Archaeology, which I am very excited to start next year.
Read more from Ciprian
Ciprian
BA Archaeology

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art:
Art History & Visual Culture at Exeter
Art History & Visual Culture at Exeter is an exciting area of study which explores both the history of art and more recent ideas of the visual – extending the analysis of visual forms from the historical right through to areas of modern and contemporary practice.
Broadly speaking, Art History is traditionally associated with the study of the fine arts (painting, sculpture, printmaking, architecture etc.); Visual Culture is concerned with artefacts and practices not routinely included in art historical research, including photographic and digital works, popular and ephemeral items, the role of the visual in scientific contexts; and other aspects of the visually-dominated world in which we live.
Today, however, the boundaries between art history and visual culture are becoming increasingly blurred so we offer our students the opportunity to engage with both subjects as a field of study where the disciplines are in dialogue with one another.
You will gain a thorough understanding of the principles underpinning the history of art and visual culture, with an awareness of the ways in which painting, sculpture and architecture, photography and other modern visual media can be considered in relation to their cultural and historical contexts.
You will also develop the critical and analytical skills and techniques required to analyse visual works, using artefacts and first-hand source material to inform your studies.
Find out more about Art History and Visual Culture research and our well-established links with museums and galleries here .
Having studied Art History at A-Level, I came to my degree expecting a very traditional course, focusing on old masters, and European works.
However, the breadth of specialism amongst the lecturers is phenomenal.
The variety of module choices, despite being challenging, is something to be welcomed and contrasts with the more conventional course I had originally expected.
The size of the course has actually been one of the most enjoyable elements of the degree as it enables you to get to know everybody and fosters a great environment that makes you feel at ease very soon after starting at university.
Read more from Alicia
Alicia
BA Art History & Visual Culture

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/medicalsci:
Learn about the science that underpins medicine.
Discover how the human body normally works, how things can go wrong in the body due to disease and trauma, and how normal function might be restored.
Our Biomedical and Medical Sciences degrees prepare you to translate scientific discoveries and technological advances into improved healthcare through small-group sessions, lectures and hands-on laboratory practicals.
You can choose to specialise in the area that interests you most and undertake a research project with our world-renowned research groups, tailoring your degree to match your specific career ambitions.
The exposure to world-class research at the Medical School, has motivated me to work hard and has assured me that if you put effort into achieving your dreams, you’ll eventually do it and you’ll be great!
Stanimir
studying BSc Medical Sciences

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biosciences:
You might also be interested in our Ecology and Conservation programmes on our Penryn Campus, Cornwall, such as Marine Biology, Zoology or Conservation Biology and Ecology.
Why study Biosciences?
Explore the spectrum of biological and biomedical sciences, taught by internationally renowned experts in subjects at the frontiers of science.
You’ll learn subjects across biology such as ecology, whole organism biology, microbiology, molecular and cellular biology, computational biology and biological chemistry.
Our teaching introduces new concepts in systems biology and describes how fundamental research is both commercialised in the biotechnology industry and applied practically in the field of ecology.
We offer field courses in exciting local, national and international destinations.
Students also have the opportunity to include a professional placement or a paid year in industry as part of their degree.
Being able to learn about real-world issues from the people researching them is amazing.
The academics are really passionate about their subjects.
The ecology lecturers, in particular, are brilliant.
I can now fully appreciate the pressures facing the environment, and the world-class science going on in the background looking for the solutions.
Luke
BSc Biological Sciences with Professional Placement, Streatham Campus

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business:
Business and Management at Exeter
Business and Management at Cornwall
Our Business and Management degrees draw upon disciplines from across the social sciences, and give emphasis to entrepreneurship, sustainable approaches, global connectivity, and the management and leadership challenges of the future.
You will also investigate organisational models and behaviours, and the associated business environment.
A defining characteristic of our programmes is flexibility, which is built into your degree structure in two ways.
We offer a huge range of elective subjects (options), especially in the second and final years.
This means you can pursue your own interests and shape the character of your programme towards, for example, entrepreneurship, marketing, leadership, or a language.
You also have the opportunity on any of our Business and Management programmes to enhance your degree with a year abroad, or an industrial placement, giving you not only a competitive edge in the graduate job market but also incredible experiences to remember for life.
A Year Abroad is compulsory for our 4-year BA International Business and Modern Languages programme, giving you an immersive language study experience.
There is no requirement for you to have studied business before coming to us, as we will not assume any prior knowledge of the subject.
It is a very practical course and provides lots of hands on experience, we get to see the real-life correlation between our studies and the functioning of an organisation.
My favourite module is International Management and Globalisation, as it considers organisations from all around the world, helping us understand different markets and their operating conditions.
Read more from Ruhitha
Ruhitha
I really enjoyed how intimate the course was, in the sense we got so much time to engage with our lecturers and peers – and there was freedom to really explore your areas of interest.
The best highlights for me though, were the location, the people and the programme’s focus on sustainability.
I couldn’t choose just one!
You’re in an amazing space and part of an internationally diverse community.
Contribute to it, learn from it and grow with it.
Read more from Isaac
Isaac
BSc Business (Cornwall)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/classics:
Classics and Ancient History is the branch of the humanities concerned with the study of the languages, literature, history, art and philosophy of the ancient Mediterranean world, especially Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome.
Studying Classics and Ancient History at Exeter gives you the opportunity to explore the historic background that underpins our understanding of the world, its challenges and opportunities.
You’ll interact with the most exciting and innovative approaches to the subject today.
As well as developing the traditional skills of classically-based degrees (such as language training and close analysis), you’ll benefit from imaginative teaching, based on the latest cutting-edge research.
We combine the study of fascinating ancient civilizations with the intellectual challenges of studying language, literature, archaeology and history, as well as an in-depth exploration of the past and critical analysis of our contemporary world.
You can study one or more of the ancient languages and gain valuable skills in communication, critical understanding and analytical approaches to evidence, culture and society.
A Classics or Ancient History degree is coveted by employers, and students who pass through our department have an excellent record in the employment market: they have ended up in a wide range of fields, from acting to banking, teaching, law, publishing and journalism.
The department of Classics and Ancient History at Exeter is one of the largest and most vibrant in the country.
You’ll join an open, friendly and dynamic department with a flourishing student Classics Society that runs a lively social and academic programme.
We often take an interdisciplinary perspective and have close links to related fields including history, archaeology, philosophy, visual arts, geography and linguistics.
Classics and Ancient History is home to a number of projects and research centres: The Centre for Hellenistic and Romano-Greek Culture and Society, and The Centre for Connectivity in the Roman World.
Our current members of staff have been responsible for some 50 books since 2000.
Addressing gender inequalities and imbalance in the arts, humanities and social sciences.
As someone who’d never studied Ancient History before, but came from a place of grassroots interest, studying the course at Exeter was undoubtedly a big jump – but one that has immeasurably changed my life for the better.
Both the sense of community and common interest within the department, as well as the sheer number of available opportunities and student support through the university have ensured that my three years at the university have been some of my best, and have given me the tools and skills I need to make the most of the professional world beyond university.
Read more from Patrick
Patrick
BA Ancient History

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/comparative-literatures:
Comparative Literatures Degrees (Streatham Campus, Exeter)
Immerse yourself in the rich tapestry of global storytelling with our Comparative Literatures and Cultures degrees.
Whether you choose the BA in Comparative Literatures and Cultures or the BA in Comparative Literatures and Modern Languages , you'll explore a wide range of texts, genres and ideas across time, place and tradition.
From medieval romance to streaming series, you'll examine how literature and visual culture reflect and shape the cultures that produce them.
Studying at Exeter means engaging with texts, films and artworks from across the world in translation - within their political, social and historical contexts.
Our degrees are designed for curious, critical thinkers who want to understand how stories travel, transform and connect us.
You’ll benefit from expert teaching, access to leading research, and a vibrant community of students and staff, all within a UNESCO City of Literature.
With a strong emphasis on transferable skills, creative thinking and global perspectives, our degrees open doors to a wide range of careers — from publishing and education to arts management, journalism and beyond.
Whether you're passionate about literature in translation, postcolonial voices, or comparative cultural analysis, Exeter offers an exciting and supportive environment to deepen your knowledge and expand your worldview.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computerscience:
Study at ZJUT in China
Join a unique programme that brings together the academic strengths of both the UK and China, through our partnership with the Zhejiang University of Technology (ZJUT).
Computer Science at Exeter
From the digital revolution to the social media boom, Computer Science has transformed the way we communicate and has applications reaching across society to help shape a better world.
We recognise that Computer Science is more than programming.
You’ll become skilled in the specification, design and implementation of computer systems, as well as gaining an understanding of the theory behind them.
Our nurturing department will support you throughout your degree, including helping you to undertake valuable work experience and guiding you in your journey to fulfil your career ambitions.
Computer science is unpredictable and exciting and it’s never going to leave me bored.
I’m doing things I never thought possible for a first year undergraduate, including working for a university start-up company in software development, gaining a huge amount of experience on real life projects.
Read more from Marija
Marija
Studying BSc Computer Science at the University of Exeter
Alumni profile - Nik Rahmel, software engineer

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/criminology:
Criminologists play a vital role in the criminal justice system.
They work to understand the social and psychological factors that cause people to commit crimes and research the most effective approaches to rehabilitation.
Offered under the prestigious Q-Step programme for quantitative social science training, our BSc in Criminology provides excellent training in applied research and data analysis skills which will help you investigate the nature of crime.
You will analyse crime survey data or the types of information used to inform intelligence-led policing and offender profiling.
If you choose to study BSc Criminology with us you will benefit from being part of the Centre for Computational Social Science (C2S2) , training you in data management, analysis and interpretation.
* Based on research impact rated 4* + 3* in REF 2021, our research in Sociology, Philosophy, Anthropology and Criminology was returned to this UoA
One of the highlights of my course is the emphasis on quantitative analysis.
To the uninitiated, that can sound extremely daunting, but I am so incredibly grateful for the numerous doors such a skill will open for me.
For anybody interested in the field, Exeter’s Criminology course is ideal.
The large variety of available modules makes it possible for students to tailor their experience however they wish, with classes ranging from Forensic Science (based in the Biology department) to Terrorism.
Studying criminology here will prepare you for so many careers down the line, especially those specific to criminal justice and law enforcement.
Read more from Simone
Simone
BSc Criminology student

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/datascience:
Data Science at Exeter
Data is the defining topic of our era and holds the key to understanding complex challenges of enormous scale.
Our degrees have been developed in collaboration with industry and focus on both the technical skills and mind-set of a data scientist.
We’ll teach you how to pose questions and explore connections as well as giving you the skills to handle and manipulate big data.
Our brilliant academics teach using current industry methods, platforms, software and datasets to ensure you are fully prepared for the workplace upon graduation.
You’ll learn skills that are highly transferable and apply to a diverse range of sectors, offering huge potential for a varied and exciting career.
My course has been engaging, mixing theory with practical application.
I have particularly enjoyed the machine learning modules and the opportunity to apply what I learned during a summer online placement at HSBC London.
This experience not only reinforced my learning but also gave me a taste for the professional world of data science.
BSc Data Science

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/drama:
Drama at Exeter offers you the time and space to explore and experiment with performance and performance making.
Taught largely through studio sessions, the relationship between theory and practice is central to the discipline.
Our academic staff teach a range of performance and specialist skills and all of our teaching grows out of our research interests, so you will be taught by people at the forefront of their field who are passionate about the subject.
We will encourage you to research a broad array of theatre histories and critical theories as well as specialist practical modules which will prepare you for work in many areas of the cultural and creative industries.
You will obtain key transferable skills which may be used in a range of professions.
You will have regular contact time with staff, who will challenge you and support the development of your intellectual and creative skills.
Your lecturers will be active researchers whose interests include areas such as the theory and practice of actor-training, transnational performance, 20th and 21st century theatre practitioners, dramaturgy and playwriting, new media, live art, site-specific performance, applied performance, gender and performance, Shakespeare, music theatre, voice training, arts management, theatre and religion and the politics of culture.
We provide a supportive environment, where collaborative work with fellow students allows you to explore innovative approaches.
You will need a great deal of commitment and demand the same from us in return; this commitment will be rewarded with an outstanding experience and education.
The study of Drama at Exeter dates back to 1927 and we have been offering a fulltime Drama programme for almost 50 years.
The department is one of the largest and best equipped in the UK.
Over the last few years we have expanded and have excellent facilities which place Exeter at the top for teaching spaces and resources.
We have invested £3.7 million in our industry standard drama facilities, providing a superb environment for learning and research.
Since studying Drama at Exeter, I have been academically and practically challenged with creating new work that has led me to develop my own skills and research.
I am also lucky to have been involved with the common purpose study which allowed me to travel to Philadelphia to experience culture for my developing projects and studio-based work.
The lecturers in the Drama department are world leaders in academic research and industry development and are always encouraging and nurturing with any issues or ideas you may have, personal or industry related.
Read more from Beth
Beth
BA Drama

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/earthsciences:
Geology at the University of Exeter
Geography at the University of Exeter
There’s never been a more important time to understand our changing planet.
Studying Earth Sciences you’ll consider the critical global issues and challenges of our times, which are already affecting people and environments around the world.
We offer a wide range of modules with flexibility to study what interests you, with field courses an integral part of your degree, positioned at the very heart of our teaching.
Your degree will provide you with the ideal mix of skills and experience for employment in a broad range of graduate-level roles.
I love how much enthusiasm the academics all have for their subjects, whether that be climate change or the history of the planet, they engage you throughout.
The lectures are always so interesting and interactive, and make you want to go and find out more about what the academics are so passionate about.
BSc Geography, Streatham Campus
The modules on our course are really varied, which helps you to start deciding exactly where you want to take your degree from the start.
The smaller class and campus size also allow for a more intimate and supported experience, creating a very pleasant working environment where you never feel overwhelmed.
Read more from Martin
Martin
Studying BSc Applied Geology at the University of Exeter

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology:
Shanghai Rankings Global Rankings of Academic Subjects 2024
REF 2021, based on 4-star research
Guardian University Guide 2025
Ecology and Conservation
You might also be interested in our courses in Biological Sciences, Biochemistry and Biological & Medicinal Chemistry at Streatham Campus.
Our degrees are led by some of the UK’s top biologists working in evolution, conservation and ecology.
Our teaching introduces new concepts in research and demonstrates how these are applied practically in the field.
You will benefit from excellent student-staff ratios, small group tutorials and welcoming and supportive staff.
One of the highlights of studying Ecology and Conservation at the University of Exeter, Cornwall, is the opportunity to undertake fieldwork, during day trips and 6 and 10 day-long field courses during your second and third year respectively.
Find out more about our incredible Field Courses
Our Ecology and Conservation programmes are based at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
Cornwall offers a truly unique and inspiring place to study, combining world-class education with a stunning natural environment, right by the sea.
Located near the vibrant town of Falmouth, the campus provides a friendly and supportive community, small class sizes, and access to cutting-edge facilities.
With a focus on sustainability and practical learning, you’ll benefit from hands-on experiences, fieldwork opportunities, and strong connections to industry.
Whether exploring the local culture or engaging in innovative research, studying in Cornwall equips you with the skills and knowledge to make a real impact in your chosen field.
The thing I enjoy most about my studies is when you take a module around a topic that really resonates with you.
There’s nothing more empowering as a student than learning the ‘ins and outs’ of a topic area you’re wildly passionate about, taught by someone who’s made it their life’s work.
Betty
BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology, Penryn Campus

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics:
Economics at Exeter
Economics is the study of how individuals, firms, markets, governments and other institutions combine to produce and distribute goods and services in order to achieve desired outcomes for society, and how effective they are in doing so.
The application of economic theory has also evolved to explore contemporary issues such as the causes and impact of the financial crisis and the proposed solutions, the effects of trade, globalisation, corruption and climate change on economic development.
Each of our five undergraduate Economics degree programmes combine high academic standards with rewarding career prospects.
You will have flexibility to choose optional modules to suit your interests and career requirements, and the opportunity to study overseas or undertake a period of industrial experience.
An important part of our teaching strategy in Economics, and unique to our Business School, is the regular use of teaching experiments in our lectures and tutorials.
In fact, the use of economic classroom experiments is embedded into many economics modules as we believe the best way to think like an economist is to act like one.
You might, for instance, participate as a buyer or seller in a market experiment; as a bidder in an auction experiment; or as a firm in an oligopoly experiment.
In addition to traditional economic models, you will also be exposed to recent behavioural theories that incorporate human limitations to rational decision making.
For example, you will discuss the merits and effectiveness of nudging, the desire to help people make better choices about wealth, and happiness in the most cost effective way.
Through our state of the art research laboratory FEELE (Finance and Economics Experimental Laboratory at Exeter) you will also be able to participate in cutting edge research.
Economics is a technical and rigorous subject, and graduates leave equipped with a valuable range of personal skills and a broad education.
Students wishing to pursue a programme with a high mathematical content should consider Economics, Economics and Finance or Economics and Econometrics, and those wanting less mathematical content should consider Business Economics or Economics and Politics.
There is no requirement for you to have studied economics before coming to us, as we will not assume any prior knowledge.
*HESA Graduate Outcomes survey 2019/20 based on full-time, first degree, UK domiciled graduates
Now in my final year at Exeter, I’ve developed a new passion for learning and developing myself through study.
The teaching has been excellent.
My final year modules have been incredibly interesting and engaging driving this feeling.
In addition, my industrial placement was perhaps the single greatest personal development opportunity of my life to date.
I acquired skills that not only help my employability, but in all aspects of life.
Read more from Matt
BSc Economics

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering:
Year 1 is taught at Streatham Campus and years 2-4 at Penryn Campus .
Engineering at the University of Exeter
Engineering at Exeter combines science, creativity and critical thinking to drive innovation and change in response to some of society’s biggest challenges.
We teach the full breadth of Engineering with classic options in Mechanical, Civil and Electronic, as well as the addition of Entrepreneurship and Management pathways that link Engineering with Business.
A core first year gives you the reassurance and flexibility that you have made the right choice in your specialism.
We prioritise a hands-on approach to learning with a focus upon practical project work.
We’ll support you in developing a creative, confident and logical approach to problem solving, making you a highly valued graduate and opening doors to a wide range of exciting careers.
The best thing about my course is that it’s allowed me to complete an industrial placement during my summer break.
I’ve gained vital work experience while having it count towards my degree, relieving the pressure on my final year and giving me a taste of life after university.
Read more from Cam
Cam
Studying MEng Mechanical Engineering
Our Engineering teaching spaces have recently undergone a £6.5million transformation.
Designed to support our updated curriculum, new equipment and facilities available to you include:
Find out further information on our website .
Engineering in Cornwall
Our Renewable Energy Engineering, Systems Engineering, and Environmental Engineering programmes are based at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
Cornwall is where the UK’s renewable energy revolution began and is the perfect location for local field trips to specialist renewable energy laboratories, wind farms, solar photovoltaic systems and offshore test sites.
On campus facilities include our state-of-the-art Renewable Engineering Energy Facility (REEF) which provides dedicated workshop and laboratory space for individual and small group projects.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english:
English and Creative Writing at Exeter
One of the leading English departments in the UK, with excellence in both teaching and research, we cover literature from the Medieval period to the present day, with additional strengths in film studies and creative writing.
As a student you will be taught by world-class academics whose expertise spans the whole of the discipline of English.
We offer a curriculum that provides considerable flexibility and choice to encourage you to discover your literary interests.
Explore the writings of canonical figures such as Austen, Dickens, Joyce, Shakespeare, Woolf and Wordsworth, and specialise as you progress, by period, genre or theme.
Choose one of our Combined Honours programmes and combine the study of literature with Film Studies, Drama, Classical Studies, Art History & Visual Culture or a Modern Language.
Throughout your studies, you will learn to analyse the literatures of different cultures and periods and to interpret this material within wider contexts of cultural and intellectual history.
Our committed and passionate staff will help you to develop your ability to read perceptively and critically and to foster your capacity for creative and original thought.
You will develop proficiency in research and analysis, an ability to construct coherent, substantiated arguments and a capacity to propose your own ideas and theories.
We are a substantial department, with staff based at the Streatham Campus in Exeter.
You will find enthusiastic, research-active staff who are leaders in their field and are committed to sharing their expertise with you through their teaching.
Whilst my studies here at the University of Exeter have been incredible (I cannot speak highly enough of my English course), my time at Exeter has been defined by what I do away from the books.
I have taken managerial roles within societies, broadening my circle of peers and allowing me to develop my leadership skills.
Not only have I been involved in voluntary positions, the University’s broad internship programme has allowed me to take paid work in the Digital Humanities Labs, assisting academics on world leading research and pioneering and fostering new relationships between the University and the rest of the world.
This internship has let me interact with texts like the first edition of William Golding’s ‘Lord of the Flies’ (with the rarely seen first chapter) and even taken me to Canada, all of which is incredible experience, and will stand me in good stead for further study.
I chose the study abroad option at Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia, as I believe that having international experience is key to success as work between countries continues to become more globally significant and the world is becoming smaller through communication and travel,’
Read more from Connor
Connor
BA English with Study Abroad (Deakin University, Melbourne, Australia)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/envhum:
What is Environmental Humanities?
The climate crisis needs creative responses that challenge the way our cultures and societies think about the environment and our role in it.
Science can help us to identify and understand the causes of the climate crisis, but in order to solve it we need to understand people, culture, and society.
Environmental Humanities as a subject foregrounds the key contributions that arts and humanities can make to evolving scientific and political understandings of current and future global crises and challenges.
You will examine socio-cultural assumptions, normative values, and colonising practices which continue to shape human and non-human interactions, and explore different forms of response and intervention.
Environmental Humanities is a practical, placement-focused subject connected with industry, with a strong focus on employability and practical solutions.
You’ll develop key transferable skills for environmental scholarship, creativity, communication, and activism.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/envsci:
Why study Geography and Environmental Science?
If you want to make a difference and change the future of our world for the better, then environmental science is the subject for you.
Climate change is now acknowledged by scientists, governments, businesses and social, environmental and economic organisations as one of the greatest challenges of our time.
Our degrees will give you the skills and expertise to address the world’s greatest challenges in climate change, such as biodiversity, sustainability and environmental decision-making.
You will study in Cornwall, which is a perfect living laboratory covering a diverse range of marine and terrestrial habitats and a wealth of natural resources, and you will learn practical and theoretical insights from research experts working at the forefront of environmental knowledge.
Our field courses are a rewarding and enjoyable experience.
They form an integral part of your degree, positioned at the very heart of our teaching.
Jobs in environmental sectors across the globe are likely to increase in the future as population growth intensifies demand for resources and emerging global environmental policies place a question mark over the longevity of carbon-hungry energy supplies.
Environmental scientists work in areas as diverse as contaminated land assessment and remediation, natural resource management, practical conservation, pollution mitigation, ecosystem service assessment, environmental monitoring, mapping and consultancy.
Unlike Streatham, the Penryn Campus has a smaller cohort of students.
This facilitates more opportunities for students to interact with the lecturer.
As a result, I benefited tremendously from consultations and talks after the lecture itself.
My favourite part of the programme is going on field trips.
We went to West Penwith in the first year and the Isles of Scilly in the second year.
The highlight was going to Isles of Scilly because prior to the field trip we seldom hung out as a group and there were few opportunities to get to know each other better.
My Human Geography lecturer, Dr Michael Leyshon, made a huge impact on my studies.
His lectures were content heavy but he made them engaging.
In addition, he gave us reports, presentations and debates as assessments, which prepared us for the real world.
The overall rank of my course and the University played a huge role in my decision to come here.
Plus, the University of Exeter is one of the few universities in the UK that is known and recognised by Singaporeans.
Furthermore, I have heard great things from my friends who have graduated from Exeter.
Another great thing about Penryn is the amazing Gylly Beach located just 30 minutes away from campus!
This is a major hangout spot during spring where everyone, literally everyone, has a beach barbeque experience!
That is one thing I will never forget.
Finally, the views surrounding Penryn and Cornwall itself are truly breath-taking!
And as an Environmental Scientist, I simply must mention that the air we breathe here is 100% fresher!
So, you should definitely come down for a visit!
I am sure you will love it as much as I have.
I am interested in recycling and electronic waste management.
As such, I intend to work with the Environmental Agency in Singapore to better understand the recycling predicament we are facing and how we can resolve that.
Alternatively, I would like to join an agency specialising in electronics.
Today, electronic waste is very prevalent and the amount of electronics and electrical equipment discarded is alarming.
I hope to join the sustainability team in the company to make a difference.
Read more from Cheryl
Cheryl
BSc Environmental Science, Penryn Campus
You won’t find another university which has a stronger sense of community, good quality teaching and the chance to travel the world during the course with awesome field trips!
The field trips are fantastic for getting to know your peers and staff in a more relaxed and fun environment.
My advice for anyone considering applying for the University of Exeter would be to go for it!
The teaching is absolutely world class.
The lecturers in Cornwall are fantastic, incredibly helpful and will go out of their way to make sure that you get the most out of the degree.
Dr Karen Anderson and Dr Jon Bennie are two lecturers who particularly stand out for me, but they're all fantastic.
Living on campus and in Falmouth in Cornwall has been amazing.
The university has such a tight-knit atmosphere and you feel part of a community.
There's always something going on and it’s never dull with both university and public events on campus and in the towns of Penryn and Falmouth.
The laboratories on campus are fantastic.
There’s plenty of computers in the computer labs and the other labs are amazingly well kitted-out.
I am vice-president of the Geography Society at the Penryn Campus, and involved in lacrosse, hockey, kayaking, running and climbing.
I would like to pursue a career in the wildlife filming and documentary production sector, educating the public about wildlife and our impacts on the world and wildlife.
Read more from Michael
Michael
Our Environmental and Marine Science programmes are based at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/film:
*in all seven themes (National Student Survey 2024)
Based in one of the leading English departments in the UK, with major strengths in both teaching and research, the dedicated and supportive Film Studies team have a wide range of expertise across American, Asian, European and African cinemas from the 19th century to the present day.
As a student of Film Studies you will gain a rich and comprehensive knowledge of film as a cultural, social, industrial and global phenomenon.
You will be equipped with the skills and concepts to enable you to understand how and why cinema developed as it did and how new moving image forms are shaping and defining film in the 21st century.
You will be taught by highly qualified and experienced staff with a commitment to research-inspired teaching.
Your studies will encompass the distinctive features and contexts of national and transnational film genres, movements and styles, from German expressionism to contemporary American independent cinema.
You will explore the aesthetics and technologies of the moving image, from pre and silent cinema, through Hollywood classics, the special effects of blockbusters and the forms of avant-garde film, as well as the features of cross-cultural cinema and contemporary digital screen media.
Concepts such as cinematic space, place and time and questions of gender, sexuality and identity will be covered and you will gain an understanding of the interaction between different film making contexts and industries and the directors, filmmakers and stars that worked in them.
Throughout your studies, you will also have access to outstanding resources, including the extensive holdings of the Bill Douglas Cinema Museum, the largest library on the moving image in any British university.
The lecturers have been amazing.
They’re all very approachable and willing to discuss readings and go through work in office hours.
The course has been fantastic.
It has introduced me to a lot of critical theory.
The film modules also rely on the materials of The Bill Douglas Cinema Museum, so you get a chance to interact with ephemera and touch some valuable film memorabilia!
My essay writing skills have improved greatly (and hopefully continue to improve!).
Read more from Richard
Richard
BA Film & Television Studies

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/flexible:
Degrees at Streatham Campus, Exeter
Flexible Combined Honours (FCH) offers a unique and appealing degree structure as it lets you study a range of subjects, related or totally diverse, in a very flexible manner.
It allows you to develop a particular blend of knowledge and skills in line with your own subject interests and career objectives.
At its simplest level, FCH lets you combine two subjects where there is currently no existing Combined Honours degree at the University, for example ‘Geography and Economics’ or ‘Management and German’.
It also offers the opportunity to study three subject areas, if compulsory modules allow – please ask about this before applying.
You are able to combine subjects across departments, including arts/humanities, sciences and social sciences, creating a cross-department degree such as ‘Biosciences and Philosophy’ or ‘Anthropology and Management’.
Alternatively, you can take modules from a variety of departments by studying one of our thematic pathways.
For example, our ‘Sustainability’ pathway enables you to choose relevant modules from Geography, Politics, Management, Biosciences, Middle East and Arabic Studies, Anthropology and Sociology.
Other thematic pathways include ‘Mediterranean Studies’, ‘Strategy and International Security’ and ‘Religion.’ Our thematic pathways can be studied on their own or in combination with other subject areas.
FCH will appeal to you if you wish to study a range of subjects, if you are not sure what disciplines you want to focus on yet, or if you wish to weight your credits to suit your strengths or areas of interest.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography:
Why choose Geography at Streatham Campus?
Why choose Geography or Environmental Science at Penryn Campus?
There’s never been a more important time to understand the diverse geography of our changing planet.
In studying geography and environmental science you’ll consider the critical global issues and challenges of our times which are already affecting people and environments around the world.
We can offer a wide range of modules with flexibility to study what interests you.
You’ll encounter exciting fields of enquiry such as climate modelling, vegetation and rivers, satellite mapping, environmental change, climate change, biosecurity, refugee and asylum geopolitics, urban futures, development and health geographies.
My favourite part of the programme has been the module about climate change, as it delivers lots of information about how human activities have impacted global warming and the potential solutions.
I also really like the diverse range of teaching styles, the helpful lecturers and how friendly the university is to international students.
Marky
BA/BSc Geography, Penryn Campus

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geology:
Geology is the study of our planet and how it has evolved over the past 4.5bn years, from the resources needed for a low-carbon future, to environmental hazards, and past and future climate change.
You’ll learn to understand the Earth’s history through a mixture of pure and applied Earth science, placing you in a position to tackle some of the world’s most important environmental challenges.
Taking advantage of our spectacular location in Cornwall, you’ll benefit from unique opportunities to integrate classroom learning with extensive field based training in the UK and overseas.
You will study topics and prepare for careers across a range of global environmental challenges.
Our Geology programmes are based at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history:
Studying History at the University of Exeter takes you on a journey through the human race in historic times: our activities, ideas, creations, institutions and impact.
What you encounter will enhance your understanding of other subjects and areas of knowledge and improve your awareness of different cultures, providing intellectual skills that will be of use throughout your life.
You’ll learn to collect evidence through the use of libraries, archives, the internet, interviews, languages, palaeography and environmental field work, and how to analyse this evidence through authentication, numeracy skills, dating, understanding and interpretation, critical study and reflection, and accurate description.
You’ll also learn to present evidence and interpret it in a responsible, well-informed and convincing way, and to place it in context to show how and why it was produced, its relative importance and value, and what impact it has had.
These are key skills transferable to a wide range of professions and occupations.
Our History programmes are high quality, modern and innovative, introducing a range of countries, periods and themes in stimulating and intellectually challenging ways.
The teaching on our programmes is inspired by the research interests of our staff, which range from the early Medieval period to the 21st century, with strengths in the history of Britain, continental Europe, and in world history.
We have an interdisciplinary perspective and close links to related disciplines including Classics and Ancient History, Archaeology, English, Modern Languages, Philosophy and Politics.
History has always been my favourite subject.
The wide range of module choices has allowed me to study a range of very interesting time periods and topics, and I have been given the opportunity to learn a new language which I am thoroughly enjoying.
I would recommend Exeter to anyone who would like to be taken out of their comfort zone.
I have learnt a lot about myself by attending this institution.
I have thoroughly enjoyed diving deeper into medieval periods that I was unable to cover at school.
Unlike some other history courses, Exeter’s course is not Eurocentric, and there are many modules covering different areas of world history.
For example, I am currently studying a module on Islamic history.
Read more from Hanife
Hanife
BA History (Exeter)
I really enjoyed the variety of modules I got to study, and the fact that students were really encouraged to pursue their own research interests.
I also found the course very intellectually stimulating, and as a result, very rewarding.
I also really valued the small class sizes and personal nature of the teaching that's able to be offered at the Penryn Campus.
When I left Exeter, I joined the Treasury's graduate scheme (called the Graduate Development Programme).
One of the things that attracted me to a job in the civil service was the room for progression and development.
For me, it was important to have a job that challenged me, where there was a clear career trajectory, and where the work I did had a tangible impact on society - and the civil service gives me just that.
I also enjoy the variety and high-profile nature of the work I get to do.
Read more from Katie
Katie
BA History (Cornwall)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law:
Study with the Exeter Law School
By studying the rules that bind a society together you will sharpen your mind and strengthen your understanding of the world.
Our degrees deliver a rigorous understanding of legal principles, as well as an examination of law in different theoretical and social contexts, with a constant eye on regional and global developments.
You will study in applied settings – community legal projects, advocacy, pro bono work, small learning communities, mooting, or via a four-year work placement programme.
Our degrees give you the skills to pursue a career as a lawyer and equip you with a firm foundation for other careers.
We offer a series of Law employability events and also offer dedicated advisors to help with placements and careers advice, whilst law societies introduce you to potential employers through a series of networking events.
Our programmes in Cornwall allow you to combine Law with Business.
The University of Exeter has been the right choice for me, undoubtedly.
Its healthy mix of focused study and welcoming social environments, as well as the support that the staff are willing to provide, makes the process of going, surviving and thriving in university not only achievable, but relatively easy to accomplish.
Going to university could very easily turn into a daunting process without the right kind of support and environment, and I have been fortunate enough to find comfort in both here.
Read more from Hamizah
Hamizah
Studying LLB Law
I chose to study at Exeter because the University has a very strong Law School and a very strong Business School and is well-recognised in the UK and abroad.
The part that I enjoyed the most was the welcoming atmosphere of the Penryn campus and the Law School as well as my cohort.
My favourite highlight of the programme modules were the company law modules available in third year, I personally found the content most enjoyable and the teaching style was engaging but informative through a focus on contextualising the material.
Read more from Edward
Edward
Studying Law with Business LLB (Cornwall)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/libarts:
Our Liberal Arts programme is an innovative, challenging and interdisciplinary programme, specifically designed to develop your intellectual capabilities and critical skills.
It offers flexibility and breadth, complemented by in-depth learning in your chosen field of specialisation – your Major.
Alongside your Major you will have the freedom to explore, choosing modules from across humanities, the social sciences and business.
You will also develop or extend your language skills and gain a global perspective through addressing contemporary worldwide issues.
Through our Liberal Arts core modules you will develop confidence applying a range of approaches and methodologies.
You will also work directly with employers and external organisations, researching real-life problems through our innovative Think Tank module.
With options to gain work experience as part of your degree programme, you can further develop your employability potential.
Our programme is aimed at ambitious and versatile students with interests across the humanities, social sciences and business.
Not limited by traditional discipline boundaries, you will enjoy the prospect of taking control of your studies whilst still being supported by a structured programme.
I knew I wanted to study subjects to do with humanities but didn’t want to be limited by a normal BA degree.
I have been able to do lots of different modules before I zoned in on a major.
The diversity of my Liberal Arts degree means that I have met a lot of students and I’ve had various lecturers in the departments of English, Sociology, Criminology, French and many more.
Evidently the teaching at Exeter is phenomenal because I have decided to do a postgraduate Masters after my degree.
I would highly recommend choosing the University of Exeter, it is by far one of the best decisions I’ve ever made!
Read more from Cameryn, from Zimbabwe
Cameryn, from Zimbabwe
Studying BA Liberal Arts majoring in Sociology

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics:
Studying mathematics is an inspiring and rewarding experience that helps us to interpret and solve global problems that would otherwise be incomprehensible.
It is one of the few subjects that can open up multiple pathways for you in the future.
At Exeter we excel not just at core mathematics, including statistics, pure mathematics and computing, but also in the applications of mathematics to real-world problems, including climate modelling, natural systems, health and medicine.
We run an inclusive and supportive department where our community of academics, students and staff are always available and delighted to help you, ensuring that you get the most out of your mathematics degree with us.
What’s my favourite thing about my course?
Getting a 1 st in a personal coding project – I didn’t think I’d enjoy coding and working with computers but now I love it!
Scarlett
Studying MMath Mathematics

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/communications:
Media and Communications at Exeter
The study of communications shows us how individuals, organisations, and cultures around the world interact with each other.
It enables us to understand how and why ideas and content have been generated, disseminated, and received, through successive waves of technological innovation from the steam-powered printing press, through the age of broadcast media, to the interactive social media platforms that underpin our contemporary world.
Based within the interdisciplinary Department of Communications, Drama and Film, and taught by active researchers with a wide variety of expertise, the programme comprises a spine of compulsory modules providing core Communications content which is supplemented by a range of optional modules in various subject areas across the University, including Film and Television Studies, English, Sociology, Politics, Theology, and Modern Languages.
As such, students can choose to develop a particular area of expertise within the broad field.
Students experience different ways of learning, engage in innovative forms of assessment, and develop a range of industry facing skills.
A core ‘Communications in the Workplace’ module includes a period of guided work experience.
Modules that cover history, theory, and research methodologies sit alongside practical modules that hone professional skills, equipping you to work across the creative industries or other roles requiring graduates who understand the importance of clear and powerful articulation.
Specialist Communications modules cover a broad range of material: from the history of communication technologies to professional writing; from communications and the climate crisis to video games and interactive technology.
Students benefit from access to distinguished academics and specialist resources including the Bill Douglas Cinema Museum, the Digital Humanities Lab, the Drama studios and the Foreign Language Centre.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/medical-imaging:
With a degree in Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography), you’ll have the skills required to successfully embark on a career as a Diagnostic Radiographer, working in a range of hospital departments and using various forms of imaging technology to look inside a patient’s body and help diagnose injuries and illnesses.
Patients are at the centre of all we do and so your clinical placements (where you will get hands on experience) are an integral part of our course.
These placements are formed of one large block per year as we believe that it really gives you the chance to settle into one of our partner hospitals across the South West, and allows you to gain confidence in your own abilities.
We have fantastic equipment on site, from purpose-built laboratories to a digital radiography room and ultrasound.
Our brand new 3T MRI scanner and PET/CT scanner will open up new opportunities for your learning.
Our Medical Imaging team is one of the few in the country that actively undertake research; with a high number of teaching staff who have already undertaken, or are currently undertaking a PhD.
Not only is our teaching led by the latest research in the area, but you will have the opportunity to be a part of the research.
Medical Imaging at the University of Exeter is celebrating 20 years of teaching and research excellence , training much-needed radiographers for the NHS and beyond.
Since the programme was launched in 2004 to help address a national shortage of radiographers, Medical Imaging has trained more than 1,000 radiographers, with active student placements in ten NHS trusts across Devon, Cornwall, Dorset and Somerset.
Once I’ve qualified from the University of Exeter, I’d like to specialise and then travel; this course gives me the opportunity to work, not only in the UK but anywhere in the world.
Natalie
studying Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/medicine:
Why study Medicine?
Become a doctor with the skills needed to address the global challenges facing health and social care.
Our medical degree gives you clinical experience within the first month of you starting your studies and your placements will introduce you to a range of students in a range of locations such as hospitals, General Practice and community practices.
Our use of small groups for teaching provides an intensively supported learning environment where you’ll be taught to challenge, stretch, and empower yourself.
This approach means you’ll be prepared for working in a multi-professional clinical team in the NHS.
“The highlights for me have been the fantastic placements which I have been able to experience from the first week at Exeter.
It has allowed me to grow and develop into a future doctor, not just a medical student.”
Kayleigh
studying BMBS Medicine

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mining:
If you are not currently working within the mining industry, and are looking to develop knowledge and skills in mining and engineering, please apply through UCAS for our Full-time BEng Mining Engineering.
If you are currently working within the mining industry, our BEng Mining Engineering (Part-time).
and Mine Management Degree Apprenticeship allow you to study while remaining employed and earning a salary.
You will gain a degree and develop new knowledge, skills, and ideas that will enable you to add real change to your organisation, and lay the foundation for a prosperous and challenging career.
To apply, you should already have a position or job offer from a mining company that is willing to support your application.
If you meet the ESFA criteria for degree apprenticeship funding , please apply for the Mine Management Degree Apprenticeship .
If you don’t meet these criteria, please apply for BEng Mining Engineering (Part-time).
All three courses culminate in a BEng degree in Mining Engineering.
Camborne School of Mines (CSM) is a world-class combined geoscience and mining department.
We have a long history of successful partnerships with industry and a hugely supportive alumni network that is truly global.
CSM is based at the University of Exeter’s Penryn Campus .
This location offers unique opportunities to collaborate with the region's rich natural resources and thriving sustainability initiatives.
It also allows CSM to integrate its world-class research and teaching with the campus’ broader focus on environmental sustainability and innovation.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/languages:
Modern Languages and Cultures at Exeter is one of the leading centres for modern languages research, teaching and learning in the UK.
Our degrees offer a high level of choice, allowing you to focus on a main language and its culture, combine two or three languages (BA Modern Languages only), or study a language alongside another subject.
You can tailor your degree to your strengths by taking up additional languages or specialising in a particular language.
You can also choose to focus on discovering the societies and cultures where these languages are spoken, or on studying languages and linguistics.
Our Languages
Modern Languages and Cultures at Exeter offer seven languages from Beginners’ level: Chinese (Mandarin), French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish.
All languages except for Chinese and Portuguese can also be studied post A-Level.
There are no pre-requisites if you plan to study a language from Beginners’ level.
No matter whether you have done a GCSE or just dreamt about learning a language for the first time, our dedicated teaching team will guide you through the learning process that covers listening, reading, writing and speaking in the target language.
Flexible Learning
You can study one, two or three languages.
The study of languages and cultures in our Department aside, you can make use of 30 credits of modularity – for example, study a language in the Language Centre, take up specific modules in other subjects such as Business, International Relations, or specialize on TESOL.
Other options include the combination of a language with another subject area such as English, Politics or History (Combined Honours) or if we do not have a pre-existing combination, you can study a bespoke programme under the umbrella of Flexible Combined Honours (FCH).
In each case your degree title will spell out what you have studied.
You can also adapt your studies – you can, subject to a number of requirements, take up a new language or drop a language; or you can shift the focus towards culture.
We all understand that at times it is necessary to make room for new interests!
Why Study a Language?
First and foremost, learning a language is fun, it gives you access to other countries and their people, and you may also find out more about yourself:  we tend to develop slightly different personalities in other languages!
Learning another language fosters your understanding of your mother-tongue.
It develops your ability to solve problems and to approach challenges analytically.
Linguists adapt with far more ease to new environments.
These are just some of the employability skills which employers have highlighted.
And last but not least, even in the day and age of online translation sites, the competence to listen, read, and speak another language is a source of power.
Languages and Cultures
At Exeter we firmly believe that language and culture go hand in hand.
While the language modules are so-called ‘core’ modules (30 credits), culture modules are optional, carry 15 credits and deepen your understanding of the language too.
We offer a wide choice of modules – including those dealing with cultural history, art history, visual culture, intercultural skills, film, literature, gender studies to name but a few.
Each language has a dedicated number of cultural modules, but you will also find Modern Languages and Humanities-wide modules which are available to linguists across the board.
Here we cover, for example, topics such as environmental and intercultural studies.
Over time, you can either specialise on a particular topic such as film, linguistics or literature, or you may build a portfolio of topics that shows a wider range of interests.
In the final year you have the option to focus on an academic topic of your choice and opt for a 15 or 30 credits dissertation.
This is particularly useful if you plan to do postgraduate study.
Societies, Community and Support
Modern Languages and Cultures is an international community of linguists.
Each language has its own society that organises trips, talks or simply meetings that allow you to engage with Chinese, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish in a relaxed manner.
We have a regular languages café and events throughout the year.
The Language Exepress is an online magazine for students and regional schools.
Modern Languages and Cultures has developed over the years – not least thanks to the input of students past and present.
The Staff Student Liaison Committee (SSLC) is a regular meeting that allows students to tell us about things that work well, what could be improved and what kind of modules we should consider.
On arrival, you will be allocated a Personal Tutor who will support you in your academic development, has an open ear for your concerns (and happy news you might wish to share!), provides you with references and also signposts where to find help if you need more specific support.
All in all, you will find a welcoming, nurturing environment with strong support networks in place to allow you and your language skills to flourish.
The Modern Languages course at Exeter offers a variety of options, ranging from Literature to Film Studies to Linguistics and many more in between.
For me, this academic diversity was incredibly important and I have really appreciated the freedom that this has given me to create a course structure that was personal to me.
Of course, the fantastic opportunities on offer for my year abroad were another draw to Exeter.
Last year I was lucky enough to spend 6 months studying at La Sorbonne in Paris before undertaking an internship for 6 months at Giorgio Armani in Italy.
I am so grateful for this amazing and invaluable experience of living abroad that studying at Exeter made possible for me.
I gained management skills and I would really like to work as a fashion buyer and I am now applying for graduate schemes.
Read more from Rachel
BA Modern Languages (French and Italian)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/natural-sciences:
Natural Sciences at the University of Exeter
Our Natural Sciences degrees are specially designed to let you work across all the sciences without pathways or constraints.
We combine our expertise in Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and Computer Science to deliver a learning experience that draws directly upon our research, exploring exciting topics including mathematical and computational biology; materials science and materials chemistry; the science of oceans, atmospheres and climate; astrophysics; and energy research.
Our department is nurturing and supportive and we’ll encourage you to follow your interests and develop your own ideas as an independent scientist and researcher.
"The flexibility of the course is amazing!
Being able to choose modules from different departments and even outside of science allows for such an interesting learning experience."
It’s also great as the future of sciences is multidisciplinary so this course allows you to become a scientist that is able to possess skills across many disciplines.
My favourite thing about studying in Exeter is the support network.
The course leaders are so supportive and are always available to help you no matter how small the issue.
That goes for the students too, the course is small so you get to know everyone really well, and this leads to an amazing community.
Read more from Natasha
Natasha
Studying Natural Sciences BSc at the University of Exeter

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/neuroscience:
Degrees at St Luke's / Streatham Campus, Exeter
Study Neuroscience for a deeper understanding of the universe’s most complex structure – the human brain.
Our BSc in Neuroscience has been carefully designed to help you understand the human body and the world around us, using the latest knowledge about biological processes in nervous tissues.
Understanding these processes better could transform healthcare and illuminate what it means to be human.
To do this, we use small-group teaching throughout the course to help you develop your subject knowledge and capacity for critical thinking.
Underpinning this is our commitment to research-engaged teaching, where you’ll take an active part in the process of scientific discovery and prepare you for a range of exciting careers.
"I’ve enjoyed the course immensely, finding it challenging yet thought provoking, and my favourite part of the course so far has been the small group learning sessions, helping to develop our knowledge of human physiology."
Hana
studying BSc Neuroscience

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/nursing:
Degrees at St Luke's Campus, Exeter
Harness your passion for helping people and start a rewarding career in nursing.
As healthcare is changing in the UK and around the world, the role of nurses is changing too.
Nurses are occupying more and more senior positions across the healthcare sector – in management, policy-making, research and education.
Our pioneering Nursing degree combines all the knowledge and skills you’ll need to qualify, register and practise as an Adult or Adult and Mental Health Nurse, with access to fast-track career paths to senior positions in clinical, leadership, academic and management positions within the NHS and beyond.
You’ll graduate as an in-demand nurse capable of leading exceptional, comprehensive, person-centred and evidence-based care in a true partnership with the people you are caring for.
“Starting my course I felt at home really quickly.
They don’t throw you in the deep end, they ease you into it which is nice.
A lot of work got put into this course – the teachers want to teach us how to become nurses, how they wanted to be taught themselves.
I was pretty impressed by that.
I was instantly hooked into Exeter as well, as a place, I love it.”
Harry
studying MSci Nursing

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy:
Philosophy at Exeter
Philosophy asks the questions most essential to human life.
Studying Philosophy will teach you to think rigorously, to defend your views in a clear and consistent way, to understand the why and what-for of different points of view, and ultimately to develop a sharp, analytical and open mind.
This creates cross-over research domains like the field of music, aesthetics and cognition, which researchers with diverse disciplinary training pursue together.
The thing I enjoyed the most about my degree was the way in which my professor encouraged me to use what we learnt in class as a platform to develop my own ideas.
Giuseppe
Philosophy and Politics graduate

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics:
All our degrees have options for Study Abroad or a Professional Placement year.
Study Physics and Astronomy at the University of Exeter
Discover undergraduate Physics at the University of Exeter
Physics is our chance to touch the hidden beauty of the world and its mechanism, studying physics can be compared to reading detailed description of a painting written in the universal language – math.
I really enjoy my time in Exeter.
University provides great facilities and study ambience, along with a huge support in building your future career.
The course material itself is nicely structured and being taught by wonderful people.
I really like group tutorials, where I get to practice my skills and learn from dedicated research scientists.
Apart from main studies, physics breakfasts are amazing opportunity to gather with professors, possible supervisors, students of all years of study and have a nice chat over the cup of coffee, everybody loves physics breakfasts!
The campus is very green and peaceful, it’s easy to find a great spot to take a break in between hard work.
I enjoy the area a lot!
I want to advise future students to make the most of being in Devon; join societies, travel, meet interesting people, have fun and, of course, master your studies.
Read more from Aleksandr
Aleksandr
studying BSc Physics and Astrophysics
Physics seeks to answer the biggest questions the human race has ever asked, and provides much of the knowledge and technology that underpins our civilisation – from spectroscopy used in healthcare to mapping our planet’s position in the universe.
We focus upon research-led learning, exposing you to cutting-edge ideas and encompassing a broad range of experimental, computational, and theoretical physics.
We’ll help you to thrive in our department, offering guidance throughout your degree and providing a stimulating and supportive environment for you to develop the investigative and problem-solving skills that characterise a scientific mind.
I chose Exeter because of the fantastic astrophysics department, and the university is well connected in a great location with beaches and Dartmoor nearby.
I have particularly enjoyed the astrophysics modules, and love hearing about the fascinating research the academics do.
I once found a lecturer quoted in a national newspaper discussing a recently discovered exoplanet!
Having access to such knowledgeable people is very inspiring, and they are always happy to help students.
I am excited to have been given the opportunity to do a summer project investigating stellar discs after the lecturer I approached enthusiastically agreed to let me do an internship with her.
The degree is well structured and gives a broad overview of physics, allowing students to specialise more in the later years in areas such as biophysics, quantum mechanics and astrophysics.
Read more from Almudena
Almudena
studying MPhys Physics with Astrophysics
I chose physics because I love the subject and everyone I met when I visited Exeter were really enthusiastic, it felt like the right place for me.
After I graduate I’m going to do Teachfirst, I’ll be teaching GCSE Science (and maybe Physics A-Level) at a school in Kent and I’m really excited!
The campus is really pretty and I love being within walking distance of everything, you can walk into the town centre and you’re also really close to the beach.
My advice for future students would be to make the most of being in Devon; join societies, get to the beach and walk on Dartmoor.
This part of the country is beautiful and this is the perfect time to enjoy it.
Read more from Amy
Amy
Studying BSc Physics and Astrophysics at the University of Exeter

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics:
Degrees at Penryn Campus, Cornwall
Our highly ranked Politics department offers an exciting range of programmes at both the Streatham Campus in Exeter and at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
Publishing in world-leading outlets, we conduct research on a wide range of fascinating issues such as extremist propaganda, authoritarian systems, climate change politics, and use cutting-edge methods such as brain imaging, big data analysis, and experimental approaches.
From the rise of emerging powers to the fundamental threat of climate change, from unprecedented challenges to international institutions to the re-emergence of nationalisms, today’s political environment is ridden with uncertainty and anxieties.
Studying Politics and International Relations has therefore never been so timely.
Students who choose to study at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall will benefit from being part of one of the top politics departments in the UK, but you won’t be lost in a crowd.
While living close by the vibrant seaside town of Falmouth, you will join a diverse cohort of around eighty students and thirteen faculty members who come from all walks of life and are passionate about politics.
We will get to know you and enable you to achieve your best by offering personalised support for you to make the transition from school to university.
The module options have definitely been a highlight for me.
Being taught key issues in contemporary Politics from leading researchers in the field means that the lectures are always filled with exciting, up to date information and debates.
The lecturers also tend to include unconventional assessment methods which I incredibly enjoy, such as writing a foreign policy recommendation to Donald Trump, or being part of a simulated peace process.
Not only is this a refreshing change from writing essays, but it also prepares us for practical tasks that are commonplace in the world of work that encapsulates Politics and International Relations.
Read more from Bettina
Bettina
BA Politics and International Relations with Study Abroad (Penryn Campus, Cornwall)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/psychology:
Why study Psychology?
Lecturers are very friendly and always willing to help, which means there is always someone you can consult and learn from.
I have also really appreciated the chance to choose some modules outside of Psychology.
I think that my biggest highlight so far would have to be the hands-on experience in practical classes.
One in particular that stands out was looking at MRI scans and identifying areas of the brain, which was both fascinating and rewarding.
One of the main reasons I chose the University of Exeter was the course.
Not only is it an undergraduate master’s degree, but it also incorporates work placements and allows me to get professional accreditation as a Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner.
Read more from Chris
Chris
MSci Applied Psychology (Clinical), Streatham Campus
My favourite module is Personality and Individual Differences.
It’s an early lecture but I would never miss it because I always leave feeling happy.
The depth that we go into and the discussions I’ve had with some of my lecturers have been so fascinating.
The lectures in second year are my favourite so far because we’ve started to focus more, rather than the introduction to Psychology in first year.
The Psychology group is incredibly close.
I remember a point where I’d been struggling with statistics and a whole group pitched in to help.
On results day I got the mark I wanted and had messages coming in from fellow students.
That support made me fall in love with Exeter.
Read more from Alexandra
Alexandra
BSc Psychology, Streatham Campus

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/energy:
Degrees at both campuses
Year 1 is taught at Streatham Campus , Devon, and years 2-4 at Penryn Campus , Cornwall.
Clean energy, generated using renewable sources and new technology, promises a permanent solution to the global energy crisis.
Exeter’s degrees cover a full range of topics from solar, marine and wind generation to policy and governance within the energy sector.
Based at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall, you’ll get first-hand experience from access to the region's many specialist renewable energy laboratories, wind farms, solar photovoltaic systems and offshore test sites.
The technical skills you’ll learn as part of this degree, as well as the knowledge gained through exposure to the challenges currently faced by industry, will open doors to a wide range of careers.
Renewable Energy at the University of Exeter
As an international student I have found the amount of support available on my course and from across the whole university has been really helpful.
Living in Cornwall is undoubtedly one of my most precious experiences.
I’ve been actively involved with Falmouth and Exeter Students' Union since my first year, becoming president of the Engineers Without Borders society and getting involved with several student led volunteer projects.
Joining clubs and societies means you can enjoy the 'study-life' balance and explore many beautiful places whilst meeting new people from both the University of Exeter and Falmouth University.
One thing I found very helpful as an international student is that there is always someone I can ask for help.
Both university staff members and students from the years above are willing to help as much as they can, or give me guidance to seek help from others.
For the University of Exeter in particular, there are many ways to connect with international students such as the Global Chums Scheme and several international societies, you’ll never feel like you’re on your own.
Read more from Peach
Peach
Studying Renewable Energy Engineering MEng
Our Renewable Energy Engineering programmes are based at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology:
Sociology and the Centre for Computational Science (C2S2)
Exeter is recognised for its distinctive emphasis on cultural sociology, science and technology studies, inequalities and the sociology of health and medicine.
You’ll benefit from a lively research environment as your teachers will contribute to current debates, giving you access to the latest thinking and resources.
Based in the department of Sociology, Philosophy and Anthropology, our environment is unique.
It allows for a productive fusion of the three subjects creating cross-over research domains.
Students who choose to study BSc Sociology will also benefit from being part of the Exeter Q-Step Centre for Computational Science (C2S2), which provides quantitative methods training in the social sciences.
C2S2 trains students in data management, analysis and interpretation.
*Based on research impact rated 4* + 3* in REF 2021, our research in Sociology, Philosophy, Anthropology and Criminology was returned to this UoA
Sociology is unique in not only its breadth of coverage, giving me the chance to dip into a wide number of disciplines including Politics, Philosophy and Psychology but also the combination of these social sciences means that it really gave me an insight into the working of society and genuinely made me both question and look at the world a little differently in light of these social approaches.
Mia
Sociology graduate

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sport:
Public Health and Sport Sciences ranks as one of the top departments in the UK to study sport and exercise sciences, with an excellent reputation for both teaching and research.
If you want an innovative and holistic scientific approach to understanding sporting performance, exercise and health, combined with an excellent general education that can lead to a wide range of employment opportunities, then our undergraduate degrees are for you.
You will study at the historic St Luke’s Campus , which provides extensive facilities including purpose-built laboratories for sport and exercise physiology, sports biomechanics, health and performance psychology research, and a virtual reality lab.
Many of our students represent the University in their chosen sport and a number have achieved regional, national and international sporting success.
We have an excellent Sports Scholarship Scheme and sports scholars succeed academically whilst also pursuing their sporting careers.
You will benefit from our highly supportive teaching and learning environment that incorporates the latest research findings and methodologies, to place you at the cutting-edge of the field.
All our teaching staff are research active and their work informs the development of new products, the practice of international athletes and teams, and public policy on exercise and health.
Ben Moseley: BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences, 2015
Charlie Dean: BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences, 2014
The St Luke’s Campus has a great community feel and you get to know everyone very quickly and see lots of familiar faces.
I found the different modules available very interesting, I liked how the first year was full of variety so I was able to find out what my interests were.
Personally, I loved biomechanics and it was something I hadn’t really done before at school, so having the opportunity to do it this year was really exciting.
The teaching is great.
All of the staff are enthusiastic and want to help as much as possible.
Tutorials are offered all year to help with understanding and coursework.
I found Daryl Wilkerson’s tutorial particularly useful as he offered assistance with our biomechanics lab report.
Lee Wylie also offered lots of support with our sport physiology coursework.
I wasn’t very confident with coursework as I didn’t do any during my A-Levels so having that help available was such a relief!
After my degree I think I’ll do a master’s degree, either in physiotherapy or biomechanics.
Read more from Georgia
Georgia
Studying BSc Sport and Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/theology:
Theology and Religion is one of the most challenging and stimulating subjects you can study.
Religion is a major factor that shapes the world in which we live.
All religions raise ethical and philosophical questions that are among the most fundamental we face as human beings: Is there a meaning and purpose to human existence?
Is there a god or gods?
How should we understand good and evil?
How do we decide what’s right or wrong in relation to war and peace, birth and death, sex, and the environment?
Can we better understand the tensions in Eastern Europe, the Middle East or Northern Ireland if we first understand the religious traditions that often separate communities from one another?
Studying Theology and Religion at Exeter gives you the opportunity to wrestle with these questions in depth, through a disciplined and rigorous framework.
Good theology engages with the political, cultural and social issues that affect our lives and communities, and we offer a demanding and rewarding programme enabling you to develop a wide range of skills that will stretch your intellectual abilities to the full.
You will work as a historian, anthropologist, literary critic and philosopher, gaining all the essential skills you need to be fully equipped for a wide range of future careers.
Our department is welcoming and supportive, with a lively and dynamic team of scholars of theology, religion, history, ethics, philosophy of religion, biblical studies and anthropology.
We pride ourselves on the quality of our undergraduate programmes, and our members of staff are at the forefront of innovative research; our research feeds directly into your undergraduate studies, ensuring you are taught cutting-edge ideas that are relevant to contemporary society.
Our research interests and teaching expertise span a wide range of subject areas, with particular research strengths, including: biblical studies, the reception of Christian and Jewish traditions, disability studies, religion in the public sphere, sex and gender, and religious art and architecture.
Our broad and varied curriculum is taught by enthusiastic staff.
You do not have to be religious to find the issues our Theology and Religion programmes raise (or the ways in which we tackle them) compelling.
Our friendly department is made up of students and staff with diverse opinions and ideas about religion and faith, atheism and secularism.
All you need is the desire to study with enthusiasm and an open mind.
I have thoroughly enjoyed studying at Exeter.
One of the best things about Theology and Religion is that all the modules in your second and third year are optional so it is possible to tailor your degree to your own specific interests.
This has been amazing because not only has this meant that I have had an interest in all my modules but it has also allowed me the opportunity to select the modules which favour my strongest forms of assessment.
Along with this flexibility, Theology and Religion has transformed the way that I have learnt to independently research, interpret and construct reasoned arguments.
As such, I would definitely encourage anyone looking to study Theology and Religion to choose Exeter.
Outside of academic work, I am a member of Exeter University Hockey Club and represent the 1st team in the National Premier League on the weekends and the BUCS South A League on Wednesdays.
Having the opportunity to play this standard of hockey, coach other teams and just be part of such a great club has certainly been the highlight of my University Experience.
Read more from Ben
Ben
BA Theology and Religion

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/foundation:
The University of Exeter International Study Centre offers Foundation and International Year One programmes for international students who do not meet the academic and/or English language requirement for direct entry to the University.
These programmes are designed to develop the academic study skills and high levels of English language competence necessary for undergraduate study at the University of Exeter.
The University of Exeter International Study Centre (ISC) is based on the University’s Streatham Campus, where teaching is delivered by highly qualified teachers with many years of teaching experience, in an inspiring learning environment.
Successful students are guaranteed a place on an appropriate degree programme at the University.
The Foundation programmes provide academic preparation for entry to the first year of an undergraduate degree.
The programme ensures that students meet the English language entry requirements for university study and can also prepare students for university-level study in a subject in which they haven’t previously specialised.
We have also launched a 2-term Fast-Track Foundation programme, running from March 2021.
Students can pick from a range of different modules to suit their interests, and in just 5 months, can progress to over 150 different degrees at the University.
This flexible, accelerated programme has been carefully designed in partnership with University of Exeter, as a quicker route to an undergraduate degree.
The Foundation and International Year One programmes are quality-assured by the University and successful completion offers a place on a degree programme at the University of Exeter.
Students will benefit from studying in a new purpose-built INTO study centre, with full access to the world-class University facilities available on campus.
The dedicated student services team at the centre provide the highest levels of personal care and support throughout your studies.
INTO University of Exeter: your Study Centre

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/accounting/businessacc:
BSc Accounting and Business - 2026 entry
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 726679
View full entry requirements
A-Level: AAB IB: 34/665 BTEC: DDD
A-Level: BBB IB: 30/555 BTEC: DDM
With Industrial Experience
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 723192
With Year Abroad
View 2025 Entry
Get a prospectus
Web: Enquire online
Phone: +44 (0)1392 72 72 72
Top 5 for Accounting and Finance graduate prospects
The Complete University Guide 2026
Top 10 in the UK for Accounting and Finance
Specific modules can enable exemptions from professional accountancy exams
92% of graduates in or due to start employment or further study 15 months after graduation
Based on full-time, first degree, UK domiciled graduates, HESA Graduate Outcomes survey 2021/22
ACCA partners with select universities to develop finance and accountancy programmes aligned with the world-leading ACCA qualification.
By choosing an ACCA accredited degree you are choosing an accelerated route to a globally-recognised qualification that can set you on a path towards a promising career as a finance professional.
You may be eligible for up to 9 ACCA paper exemptions depending on modules taken (Accountant in Business, Management Accounting, Financial Accounting, Corporate and Business Law, Performance Management, Taxation, Financial Reporting, Audit and Assurance, Financial Management).
Visit their website for more details
CIPFA is the only professional accountancy body in the world exclusively dedicated to public finance, making its portfolio of qualifications the foundation for a career in public finance.
This includes a benchmark qualification for public sector accountants.
You may be eligible for up to 7 CIPFA paper exemptions depending on modules taken.
The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants is the world’s largest professional body of management accountants with the most useful accounting qualification for a career in business.
The CIMA qualification is designed to bring together management accounting, financial accounting and business, so you’ll have the practical skills employers need, making you qualified to work in a wide range of roles.
You may be eligible for exemption from up to 4 CIMA exams depending on modules taken (in addition to the basic papers BA1 – BA4).
Founded in 1880, ICAEW trains and supports Chartered Accountants so they have the knowledge and value to help build local and global economics that are sustainable, accountable and fair.
They share their knowledge and insight with governments, regulators and business leaders worldwide.
The ICAEW Chartered Accountant qualification (ACA) is one of the most advanced learning and professional development programmes available.
It is valued around the world in business, practice and the public sector.
You may have exemptions from up to 8 ICAEW papers depending on modules taken.
ICAS is a professional body for world class business people who work in the UK and around the world.
Their members have all achieved the internationally recognised and respected CA qualification (Chartered Accountant).
ICAS are an educator, examiner, regulator, and thought leader.
Exemptions may be available from five out of six papers from the Test of Competence level depending on modules taken.
Expand text
Specific subject requirements must still be achieved where stated above.
Find out more about contextual offers .
View other accepted qualifications
International students need to show they have the required level of English language to study this course.
The required test scores for this course fall under Profile B1 .
Please visit our English language requirements page to view the required test scores and equivalencies from your country.
NB General Studies is not included in any offer.
Grades advertised on each programme webpage are the typical level at which our offers are made and provide information on any specific subjects an applicant will need to have studied in order to be considered for a place on the programme.
However, if we receive a large number of applications for the programme we may not be able to make an offer to all those who are predicted to achieve/have achieved grades which are in line with our typical offer.
For more information on how applications are assessed and when decisions are released, please see: After you apply
The modules we outline here provide examples of what you can expect to learn on this degree course based on recent academic teaching.
The precise modules available to you in future years may vary depending on staff availability and research interests, new topics of study, timetabling and student demand.
You may take option modules as long as any necessary prerequisites have been satisfied, where the timetable allows and if you have not already taken the module in question or an equivalent module.
Year 1
Year 2
30 credits from the below list; plus a further 45 credits
Placement year (if taken)
This degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
If you choose one of these options your placement year will take place in your third year, before returning to complete your degree at Exeter in your fourth and final year of study.
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard 3-year course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
More about placement options
Final year
30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional modules
a You must select a minimum of 15 credits of optional modules from this group:
Overview
The BSc Accounting and Business degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard BSc Accounting and Business course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
BSc Accounting and Business with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: NND4
The ‘With Industrial Experience’ (WIE) pathway is a four-year version of your degree, in which your third year is spent in a professional placement before returning to university for your fourth and final year.
The Business School Careers Team supports you every step of the way, helping you identify placement providers, create a strong application, practice interview techniques, and support you while you are in placement.
The placement year assessment currently comprises of:
You are responsible for sourcing and securing a work placement, but you will be supported throughout by the Business School Careers Team and assigned an academic tutor for the duration of your placement.
Placements are available internationally.
Previous placement providers include Adidas, Apple, ASOS, Bank of England, Deloitte, Disney, EY, GlaxoSmithKline, Goldman Sachs, PwC
The placement year is assessed and contributes 1/7th of your final degree classification when you graduate.
During your placement year you will pay a reduced tuition fee of approximately 20% of the maximum fee for that year.
Find out more on our tuition fee webpages .
‘With Industrial Experience’ is available on all Business School undergraduate programmes.
You can apply through UCAS or ask to transfer onto WIE in the first term of your first year.
Find out more on our careers pages .
If you choose not to undertake the four-year WIE pathway, there are other ways to gain work experience, from the Business Internships and Placements Module, to summer internships.
BSc Accounting and Business with Year Abroad
UCAS code: NN42
The ‘With Year Abroad’ (WYA) pathway is a four year version of your degree, in which your third year is spent studying at one of our 60 partner universities (spanning 26 countries), before returning to university for your fourth and final year.
There is also the opportunity to combine study and work abroad, doing a semester of study at one of our partner universities followed by a semester of work in a placement that you secure anywhere in the world.
The Business School Study Abroad Team supports you every step of the way, helping you to decide where to go, create a strong application, and supporting you while you are abroad.
We have partners in: Canada, USA, Mexico, Peru, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Denmark, Netherlands, Switzerland, France, Spain, Portugal, Poland, Slovenia, Italy, Turkey, China, Hong Kong, Thailand, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand
If you spend a full academic year studying abroad you will pay a reduced fee of approximately 15% of the maximum fee for that year.
Year abroad options are available on all Business School undergraduate programmes.
You can apply for the four year ‘With Year Abroad’ variant of your degree through UCAS or ask to transfer onto the WYA programme in your first year.
Acceptance is dependent on satisfactory academic performance and the level of research you have undertaken into your chosen institution.
Find out more about study abroad for Business School students .
If you choose not to undertake the full year studying abroad, there are other ways to gain a taste of the study abroad experience.
You can spend two to six weeks at one of our international partner universities.
Find out more on our study abroad webpages.
UK students: £9,535 per year International students: £24,700 per year
The University of Exeter has many different scholarships available to support your education, including £5 million in scholarships for international students applying to study with us in the 2025/26 academic year, such as our Exeter Excellence Scholarships *.
Financial support is also available for students from disadvantaged backgrounds, lower income households and other under-represented groups to help them access, succeed and progress through higher education.
See online for details .
Find out more about tuition fees and scholarships
You will learn through a mix of:
Modules are assessed through a mixture of:
The weighting of these components varies according the module.
Coursework is typically between 2,500 and 6,000 words in length, and exams are usually held at the end of the module in January and May/June.
You will be based at the purpose-built University of Exeter Business School located on the Streatham Campus in Exeter, Devon.
Each year, if you have optional modules available, you can take up to 30 credits in a subject outside of your course.
This can increase your employability and widen your intellectual horizons.
If you complete 60 credits of modules in specified subjects, you may have the words 'with proficiency in’ added to your degree title when you graduate.
Find out more about proficiency options
The University of Exeter Business School provides a range of careers and employability support for Undergraduate students.
Visit the Business School Career Zone web page for more information.
A degree in accounting and finance from the University of Exeter is recognised worldwide as an academically rigorous, industry standard degree, offering you entry into a range of roles and organisations.
View all Accounting and Finance courses
Streatham Campus in Exeter
The majority of students are based at our Streatham Campus in Exeter.
Find out more about Streatham Campus.
St Luke's Campus in Exeter
Located on the eastern edge of the city centre, St Luke's is home to Sport and Health Sciences, the Medical School, the Academy of Nursing, the Department of Allied Health Professions, and PGCE students.
Find out more about St Luke's Campus.
Penryn Campus near Falmouth, Cornwall
Our Penryn Campus is located near Falmouth in Cornwall.
It is consistently ranked highly for satisfaction: students report having a highly personal experience that is intellectually stretching but great fun, providing plenty of opportunities to quickly get to know everyone.
Find out more about Penryn Campus.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/accounting/accountfin:
BSc Accounting and Finance - 2026 entry
We are an academic partner of the CQF Institute
We are proud to be a partner of the CQF Institute - a globally recognised body supporting education in finance and quantitative finance.
Our students benefit from free membership to the CQF Institute , which includes:
120 credits of compulsory modules
None
60 credits of compulsory modules
60 credits of optional modules
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard 3 year course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
45 credits of compulsory modules
75 credits of optional modules
Our BSc Accounting and Finance degree offers you the opportunity to spend a placement year working in a related industry role, or studying abroad.
If you choose one of these options, your placement year will take place in your third year, before returning to complete your degree at Exeter in your fourth and final year of study.
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard BSc Accounting and Finance course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
BSc Accounting and Finance with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: NN43
The placement year assessment currently comprises:
BSc Accounting and Finance with Year Abroad
UCAS code: N424
You will be based at the purpose built University of Exeter Business School located on the Streatham Campus in Exeter, Devon.
If you’re considering studying Accounting and Finance at Exeter, I’d say go for it!
The course provides a strong foundation , the support is fantastic, and you get to study in a beautiful, welcoming environment.
It’s been an amazing experience for me, and I feel more confident and prepared for my future career.
The teaching here at Exeter has been fantastic.
The professors are knowledgeable and bring in real-world examples to make each lesson practical and relevant.
My favourite module so far has been Business Law for Accountants.
I wasn’t expecting to enjoy it as much as I do, but it’s been incredibly insightful to understand the legal frameworks that impact businesses.
It’s broadened my perspective and added depth to my understanding of how businesses operate within the law – skills I know will be essential in my future career.
Read more from Daniel
Daniel
BSc Accounting and Finance

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/accounting/finance:
BSc Finance - 2026 entry
with Industrial Experience
with Year Abroad
Specific modules can enable you to work towards professional certifications
Opportunity to specialise with a choice of pathways
Your first year will give you a general overview of the role of financial assets and markets.
You will gain a broad understanding of the fundamentals of securities and investment under the current economic environment within the financial services industry.
We will introduce you to economics and teach you how to summarise and analyse data using statistical methodologies to test hypotheses.
All our modules have an international focus, allowing you to experience the global scope of the modern financial world.
At the Business School, we are passionate about environmental sustainability, responsible leadership, and technological transformation.
You will be introduced to ethical issues and dilemmas in business and encouraged to consider the social, economic, and environmental implications of professional behaviours and decisions.
Keep your module options open and apply to BSc Finance, or choose one of three flexible pathways - Investment Banking , Business Management or Data Science - to tailor your studies to a particular career aspiration.
75 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard 3 year course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
a You must choose either BUS3000A, BUS3000B or BUS3000C
BSc Finance has three flexible pathway options: Investment Banking, Business Management, and Data Science, enabling you to tailor your studies to suit your personal interests and career aspirations.
You can apply to these options separately through UCAS.
Please note that some pathways have different entry requirements - see the links below for details.
BSc Finance: Business Management
On the Business Management pathway, you will develop your understanding of the purpose and functioning of organisations within the global business environment.
You will study corporate finance and governance, investment practice, risk management and financial reporting, to prepare you for careers in business and corporate finance.
Optional modules allow you to either pursue a broad understanding of business management, or to specialise in your chosen field of entrepreneurship or leadership, enabling you to tailor your degree to suit your personal ambitions and interests.
» BSc Finance: Business Management course page
BSc Finance: Data Science
The Data Science pathway has been designed to meet the growing demand for Finance graduates with specialist skills such as programming for financial applications and quantitative data analysis techniques.
It includes optional modules on topics such as machine learning for economics; bitcoin, AI and the metaverse.
You will also study corporate finance, investment practice, risk management and financial reporting.
» BSc Finance: Data Science course page
BSc Finance: Investment Banking
On the Investment Banking pathway, you will gain the fundamental knowledge and technical application of investment tools and asset classes.
You will study specialist topics such as equity and fixed income, financial modelling, quantitative methods, economics of financial crisis, and risk management in the banking and financial services sectors.
In addition, modules in corporate finance and governance, investment practice and financial reporting will provide you with skills for a career in banking, financial services or the broader corporate world.
» BSc Finance: Investment Banking course page
BSc Finance with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: NN56
The placement year is assessed and contributes one-seventh of your final degree classification when you graduate.
Find out more on our tuition fee webpages.
‘With Industrial Experience’ (WIE) is available on all Business School undergraduate programmes.
You can apply through UCAS using the code above, or ask to transfer onto WIE in the first term of your first year.
BSc Finance with Year Abroad
UCAS code: NN57
The ‘With Year Abroad’ (WYA) pathway is a four-year version of your degree, in which your third year is spent studying at one of our 60 partner universities (spanning 26 countries), before returning to university for your fourth and final year.
We have partners in: Canada, USA, Mexico, Peru, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Denmark, Netherlands, Switzerland, France, Spain, Portugal, Poland, Slovenia, Italy, Turkey, China, Hong Kong, Thailand, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Australia and New Zealand.
You can apply for the four year ‘With Year Abroad’ variant of your degree through UCAS or ask to transfer onto the WYA programme in the first term of your first year.
Find out more on our study abroad webpages .
The weighting of these components varies according to the module.
Upon completion of the course, you should be well placed to pursue a wide variety of career options in areas such as:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/accounting/finance-business-management:
BSc Finance: Business Management - 2026 entry
As you progress through your studies, you will develop your understanding of the purpose and functioning of organisations within the global business environment.
Stage 1: 120 credits of compulsory modules
Stage 2: 75 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules.
Students must select 15 credits from the list below, plus an additional 30 credits from any optional modules:
Stage 3: 120 credits of compulsory modules
Stage 3: 45 credits of compulsory modules, 75 credits of optional modules
Students must select 30 credits from the list below, plus an additional 45 credits from any optional modules:
BSc Finance: Business Management with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: NN50
‘With Industrial Experience’ (WIE) is available on all our Business School undergraduate programmes.
tuition fee webpages .
Find out more on our Find out more on our careers pages .
BSc Finance: Business Management with Year Abroad
UCAS code: NN51
You can apply for the four-year ‘With Year Abroad’ variant of this degree through UCAS using the code above, or ask to transfer onto the WYA programme in the first term of your first year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/accounting/finance-data-science:
BSc Finance: Data Science - 2026 entry
BSc Finance: Data Science has been designed to meet the growing demand for Finance graduates with specialist skills such as programming for financial applications and quantitative data analysis techniques.
As you progress through your studies, you will choose from a range of optional modules.
Stage 2: 75 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules
Stage 3: 75 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules
BSc Finance: Data Science with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: NN52
careers pages .
BSc Finance: Data Science with Year Abroad
UCAS code: NN53

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/accounting/finance-investment-banking:
BSc Finance: Investment Banking - 2026 entry
As you progress through your studies, you will gain the fundamental knowledge and technical application of investment tools and asset classes.
You'll study specialist topics such as equity and fixed income, financial modelling, quantitative methods, economics of financial crisis, and risk management in the banking and financial services sectors.
Please note that this pathway will be awarded CFA ® ‘University Affiliation Program’ status, so only compulsory modules are available - no optional modules.
Stage 2: 120 credits of compulsory modules
Stage 3: 120 credits of compulsory modules (please choose between BEE3070 OR BEE3109)
BSc Finance: Investment Banking with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: NN48
BSc Finance: Investment Banking with Year Abroad
UCAS code: NN49

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/programmes/financialservices:
Financial Services Professional Degree Apprenticeship
Final award:
We offer industry qualifications from professional bodies (the CISI, the Chartered Banker Institute and the CFA Institute) as part of the programme.
Dependent on employer
Web enquire
Enquire now
Download our employer brochure
Open days and visit us
Triple accredited Business School
AMBA, AACSB, EQUIS
Gain up to five qualifications through one programme along with valuable real-world experience
Online/Hybrid Learning
Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment (CISI) Investment Operations Certificate during Level 4 Investment Operations Specialist Standard.
CFA Institute (CFA) CFA Level I during Level 6 Financial Services Professional Degree Apprenticeship Standard.
Chartered Banker Institute Associate Chartered Banker Diploma
Financial Conduct Authority Capital Markets Programme (via CISI)
Successful completion of the programme will result in the award of Level 6 Financial Services Professional Apprenticeship and BSc (Hons) Applied Finance.
Applicants will have 3 A-levels ( or equivalent ) at grade B or above - please be aware employers may have higher grade requirements for their apprenticeship programmes.
There is a requirement from Skills England that apprentices hold a level 2 qualification in English and Mathematics if aged under 19 at the start of their apprenticeship, or at the request of their employer.
GCSE grade of 6 in Maths and 4 in English is required for this programme.
Please note: we do not use UCAS points for entry to the programme.
Where a candidate has already gained a good undergraduate degree this may be offered to meet entry requirements.
Other relevant or prior experience may also be considered as an alternative so we would encourage applicants with non-standard qualifications to contact us to discuss their eligibility.
As an apprenticeship funding requirement, all apprentices aged 16-18 studying for a level 3 apprenticeship or higher are required to evidence achievement at level 2 in Mathematics and English before their gateway to endpoint assessment.
If the apprentice is aged 19+ when they begin their apprenticeship training, and they do not already hold a suitable equivalent qualification, English and / or maths is an optional part of the programme under the funding rules.
However, L2 English remains a standard entry requirement for University of Exeter programmes.
Find out more about how we support Functional Skills .
Applicants must also have a valid and eligible residency status to gain entry onto the apprenticeship – please see the Department for Education website for further information.
APEL for Level 4
Existing employees can apply if they have a minimum of  2 years of relevant work experience in the financial industry.
You must also be in a role that supports the gathering of evidence required for the Investment Operations Specialist Level 4 standard.
Each candidate as part of the application, must complete an extended personal statement.
They must outline why they are suitable to join the programme based on their interests, work experience and future career goals.
APEL for Level 6
Existing employees can apply if they have a minimum of 2 years of relevant work experience in the financial industry.
You must also be in a role that supports the gathering of evidence required for the Financial Services Professional Level 6 standard.
Candidates will be required to complete an Experiential Reflection form ( 1200-2000 words) to demonstrate why they should join straight to Level 6.
This will be assessed by the Programme Director.
Candidates can join straight to Level 6 if they have completed a Level 4 Finance apprenticeship alongside the following qualifications:
• CISI Investment Operations Certificate
• CISI Certificate in Investment Management
• CISI Investment Advice Diploma
• CFA Institute/CFA UK – Investment Management Certificate
To gain a place candidates must apply directly to one of our partner employers’ vacancies.
Candidates can apply to this programme in addition to making applications to any institution through UCAS.
When vacancies are open they will be advertised by our employer partners and on University of Exeter Degree Apprenticeship website.
Please be aware that employers start their recruitment at different times of the year so please be sure to check regularly.
View current vacancies
Full programme cost: £27,000
This includes £9,000 to complete level 4 and £18,000 to complete Level 6.
This apprenticeship is entirely funded through an Employers’ Apprenticeship Levy.
Your employer fully covers the cost of the apprenticeship, apprentices do not pay for any of the eligible training costs.
As an apprentice you will be an employee of your organisation, gaining a University of Exeter award alongside working and earning a salary.
Employers who pay the Apprenticeship Levy will pay for the apprenticeship fees directly through that contribution.
See further information on the Apprenticeship Levy funding .
Employers who do not pay the Levy will be able to claim 95 per cent of the cost of the apprenticeship from the Government.
Up to 100 per cent Government contribution may be available if the employer has fewer than 50 employees and:
Employers must pay their apprentices a salary at least consistent with national legislation.
To be eligible for funding the apprentice must meet the criteria listed in the Department for Education guidance .
The apprentice must have a valid and eligible residency status to gain entry onto the apprenticeship.
Read more
Integrative in its design and delivery, this apprenticeship is designed for individuals who are new to the Financial Services sector and starting their career journey, or those with varying levels of existing experience in the field who are progressing their career within an organisation.
Throughout the programme apprentices will develop core knowledge of the structure of the Financial Services industry; the relevant legal and regulatory framework and ethics; proficiency in relevant IT skills and software/systems and the approach to deliver fair client outcomes across the business setting including best practice.
Each stage of study is structured to incorporate masterclasses, online learning, academic coaching and workplace mentoring.
Assessment is ongoing and is relevant to the work tasks of apprentices, measuring the higher-level thinking skills demonstrated in a variety of problem-based assignments.
Year 3
A minimum of 6 hours per week will be given over to study.
Our model is designed to be flexible around the needs of apprentices and workloads as it includes in-person masterclasses and online webinars.
Our blended learning model comprises of:
Assessment is ongoing and is relevant to the apprentice's professional work tasks, measuring the higher-level thinking skills demonstrated in a variety of problem-based assignments.
The personal development activities, assignments and reflections that apprentices produce will all offer material for the final apprenticeship End Point Assessment professional portfolio.
Apprentices will complete both an Exeter University exam and an assignment for each module, with their performance directly impacting their University award classification.
These assessments are strategically aligned with the curriculum of leading professional exams, including CISI and CFA, maximising apprentices' chances of success in these industry-recognised qualifications.
By integrating these university modules with professional exam content, we provide apprentices with the knowledge and skills needed to excel in both assessments.
Alongside studying for a Bachelor's degree, apprentices will also work towards their apprenticeship and the mandated professional qualifications.
They will gain the Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours of the apprenticeship standards below.
Apprentices will follow the Level 4 Investment Operations Specialist first, then once this is complete, they will progress onto the level 6 Financial Services Professional for the remainder of their apprenticeship.
Employers and prospective apprentices can access the assessment plans through the links below.
Combining professional experience and qualifications along with a highly-respected degree from a top Russell Group University will help apprentices stand out from the crowd as they progress through their career.
Throughout the apprenticeship students will focus on establishing themselves as a Financial Services Professional providing an important foundation upon which to further develop their career.
Drawing upon academic guidance, professional development coaching and workplace mentoring, apprentices benefit from a wealth of inspiration and advice to guide and support their professional development planning.
Depending upon the vacancy the candidate has applied for, they might be working for an SME or a multinational corporation.
Either way, their employer will be fully committed to and supportive of their studies.
Through this unique programme apprentices will gain the skills to become highly competent professionals ready to excel in the finance industry.
The apprenticeship will cover a base of core knowledge required of all individuals entering or progressing to this level in the sector, and a set of specialist options that then provide the occupationally specific training, depending on the requirements of the employer.
Delivered through a flexible blended learning model, the programme enable employers to recruit, train and retain high-calibre talent in partnership with the University.
View all degree apprenticeships
Fantastic facilities, outstanding teaching, world-leading research and exceptional graduate employability are just a few of the reasons we think you'll love it here.
Find out what our students say about choosing Exeter.
Studying at our campuses in Devon or Cornwall means you'll have some of the most beautiful natural scenery in the UK on your doorstep.
We have around 20,000 students across our three campuses in Devon and Cornwall which means we offer the academic excellence and facilities you'd expect of a major university but also a friendly and welcoming atmosphere.
We warmly welcome international students and work hard to ensure you have the support you need to make the most of your time in the UK.
More than 5,000 students from 140 countries contribute to our thriving student community.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/anthropology/anthropologyba:
BA Anthropology - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABB-BBB IB: 32/655-30/555 BTEC: DDM
A-Level: BBC-BCC IB: 28/554-26/544 BTEC: DMM
with Study Abroad
Top 15 in the UK for Anthropology
11th in the Guardian University Guide 2025 and the Complete University Guide 2026
Top 5 in the Russell Group for student satisfaction
in six out of seven themes (National Student Survey 2024: Anthropology)
Flexible programme giving you opportunities to explore other disciplines
Opportunities to study abroad
Studying anthropology at Exeter gave me the amazing opportunity to step out of my comfort zone and study abroad for a year.
Choosing to study in Denmark allowed me to experience an international environment and study anthropology in a new context.
I would recommend doing a year abroad to anyone considering it – it’s a perfect opportunity to travel, explore your interests and gain new international friends!
Read more from Clare
Clare
BA Anthropology with Study Abroad
The required test scores for this course fall under Profile B2 .
You will take modules adding up to 120 credits each year.
Depending on your programme you can take up to 30 credits each year in another subject, for instance a language or business module, to develop career-related skills or just widen your intellectual horizons.
Descriptions of the individual modules are given in full on the department site undergraduate module list .
90 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules.
Please note that modules are subject to change and not all modules are available across all programmes, this is due to timetable, module size constraints and availability
60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules.
Study Abroad year (if taken)
Students spend this stage in an approved partner University.
The year abroad comprises 120 credits.
Assessment is based on the credits gained at the partner institution abroad.
30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional modules.
UCAS code: L603
Our four-year ‘with Study Abroad’ degree offers you the possibility of spending your third year abroad, studying with one of our many partner universities.
Living and studying in a different country is an exciting experience that broadens your academic and cultural horizons, as well as giving you the opportunity to widen your circle of friends.
Students who have studied abroad demonstrate initiative, independence, motivation and, depending on where they stay, may also have gained a working knowledge of another language – all key qualities that employers are looking for in today’s competitive employment environment.
We have partnership arrangements with many prestigious institutions across the globe.
Exactly where you can apply to study will depend on the subjects you are studying at Exeter.
For a full list please visit the Study Abroad website .
If you wish to study abroad as part of this degree course, you must achieve an overall grade of at least 60% (a 2:1) for your first year of study.
This applies to all students, even if you are registered on the 'with Study Abroad' variant from the start of your degree.
Credit for academic work during your year abroad is arranged by agreement between the University of Exeter and the host institution.
These marks are then translated back into your degree at Exeter.
If you are studying abroad for a semester or full year, your time abroad will count toward your final degree.
For the year that you spend studying abroad you will pay a significantly reduced tuition fee to Exeter, but nothing to your host university – for more information visit our fees pages .
You will continue to receive a maintenance loan if you are eligible for this whilst on your Study Abroad year.
We use a wide range of teaching methods as well as encouraging independent study with an increasing emphasis on seminar discussion and project work in your second and third years.
Teaching includes:
You will also have access to personal and subject tutors who will give you the individual help and guidance you need to succeed.
You must pass your first year modules in order to proceed but your performance at this level does not count towards your final degree classification.
You will be introduced to methods of field work-based inquiry that are strongly featured within the qualitative traditions of sociology and anthropology.
As an Anthropology graduate from Exeter you will develop a global cultural awareness that is crucial in today’s job market.
Alongside this you will gain a range of academic and professional skills, including:
Many of our students participate in the Exeter Award and Exeter Leaders Award.
These schemes encourage you to participate in employability-related workshops, skills events, volunteering and employment which will contribute to your career decision-making skills and success in the employment market.
Examples of the destinations of recent Sociology, Philosophy and Anthropology graduates*:
*This information has been taken from the Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) Surveys 14/15, 15/16, and 16/17.
Please note that, due to data protection, the job titles and organisations are listed independently and do not necessarily correspond.
Examples of further study followed by our graduates:
We provide a range of support to help you develop skills attractive to employers.
You will be able to access a range of specific activities such as careers skills sessions and employer-led events, or seek bespoke advice and support from Employability Officers.
The Career Zone also organises a busy schedule of activities including careers fairs, skills workshops, and training events, and can advise on graduate opportunities and volunteering.
Shape your degree to match your interests and goals with our BA/BSc Flexible Combined Honours (FCH).
This unique programme lets you study two or three subjects - even across departments - for example 'Archaeology and Geography' or 'English and Biological Sciences'.
You’ll benefit from a varied learning environment, with the chance to meet and collaborate with a wide range of peers.
You can also follow a themed interdisciplinary pathway to deepen your understanding of a specific topic.
Learn more about Flexible Combined Honours
View all Anthropology courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/archaeology/archanth:
BA Archaeology and Anthropology - 2026 entry
Web: Enquire online Phone: 0300 555 6060 (UK callers) +44 (0)1392 723044 (EU/International callers)
With Study Abroad
With Employment Experience
With Employment Experience Abroad
Top 5 in the UK for Archaeology and Forensic Science
5th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top 50 in world subject rankings for Archaeology
QS World University Subject Rankings 2025
Applied experience and fieldwork opportunities in the UK and abroad
Since beginning at the University of Exeter, my subject has very much become a huge part of who I am.
The Archaeology department really encourages students to get involved with excavation field-trips as part of the course, and I have been fortunate enough to have visited South Dakota, USA and Kazakhstan as part of this.
These are not only the most memorable parts of my University experience, but they have also allowed me to develop useful skills applicable to voluntary placements and, no doubt, in my future work endeavours .
I would really encourage other students to get involved with volunteering around Exeter as there is a plethora of interesting work available; in my instance, I have completed over a year’s voluntary work with the Royal Albert Memorial Museum and the Bill Douglas Cinema Museum, both of which have supplemented my subject really well and undoubtedly helped me in being accepted onto a Master’s course.
The University also has great potential for students wanting to get involved with sports and societies to relax from course-work and socialise - I play both football and netball for Archaeology society intramural teams (which means any ability will do!) and have thoroughly enjoyed doing so.
Read more from Ollie
Ollie
BA Archaeology and Anthropology
30 credits of compulsory Archaeology modules and 60 credits of compulsory Anthropology modules, 30 credits of Archaeology optional modules
Anthropology Modules - https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=anthropology
15-30 credits of compulsory Archaeology modules, 30 credits of compulsory Anthropology modules, 30-45 credits of optional Archaeology modules, and 30 credits of optional Anthropology modules
a You must take either ARC2003 or ARC2004 (you cannot choose both).
Anthropology modules - https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=anthropology
Typically, any placement year will take place in Year 3.
If you are not taking a placement year please see the Final Year modules for year 3.
0-30 credits of compulsory Archaeology modules, 0-30 credits of compulsory Anthropology modules, 30-60 credits of optional Archaeology modules, and 30-60 credits of optional Anthropology modules
c You must take either ANT3040 or ARC3000 (you cannot choose both).
BA Archaeology and Anthropology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VL47
If you were previously eligible, you will continue to receive a maintenance loan whilst on your Study Abroad year.
BA Archaeology and Anthropology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VL48
Our four-year ‘with Employment Experience’ degree, offers you the possibility of spending your third year carrying out a graduate-level work placement or placements within the UK as part of your degree.
Undertaking graduate-level work during your degree unlocks a world of experience that allows you to develop essential employability and interpersonal skills that relate to your degree and future career.
A work placement will dramatically boost your confidence, enhance your CV and develop graduate level skills and competencies that employers are looking for.
The sector you choose to work within is very much your choice as you will be responsible for finding and organising your placement.
We will provide plenty of guidance and support during your first and second years which will prepare you to research and apply for placements.
Ultimately, the university will give final approval to your placement to make sure you have a valuable experience.
For your ‘Year In Industry’ you will pay a significantly reduced tuition fee to Exeter – for more information visit our fees pages .
If you were previously eligible, you will continue to receive a maintenance loan whilst on your year of work placement/s.
Visit our website to learn more about employment experience opportunities.
BA Archaeology and Anthropology with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VL49
Our four-year ‘with Employment Experience Abroad’ degree, offers you the possibility of spending your third year abroad, carrying out a graduate-level work placement or placements as part of your degree.
Spending up to a year living and working in a different country is an exciting experience that broadens your academic and cultural horizons, as well as giving you the opportunity to widen your circle of friends.
By carrying out a graduate-level work placement or placements abroad you can demonstrate to employers your adaptability, cultural awareness, independence and resourcefulness and, depending on where you stay, may also have gained a working knowledge of another language.
The sector and country you choose to work within is very much your choice as you will be responsible for finding and organising your placement.
You will be paid in accordance with the rules of the country you work in and there may be visa restrictions or requirements which you need to consider when applying.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, tutorials, field trips, and computer-led learning, led by internationally respected academics at the forefront of research.
As well as a considerable self-guided study and research focus, you will be encouraged to complete group tasks.
You will develop a range of skills of analysis and interpretation as well as a wide range of transferable skills, both practical and intellectual.
You will carry out a large amount of practical work, as you complete assignments and put into practice different archaeological and scientific techniques.
We frequently employ experiments in our teaching about ancient technologies (e.g.
flint knapping, pot making, bronze smelting and casting).
Our students complete at least four weeks’ practical work, usually during the first summer vacation, and we have excellent provision of technical equipment for field study, including GPS, total station theodolite and geophysical equipment.
You will have between 1 and 3 hours of teaching per module per week and will need to allow for additional hours of private study.
You should expect your total workload to average about 40 hours per week during term time, with at least 10 hours of this being contact time with staff.
Our teaching is inspired by the latest research, ensuring lectures are cutting-edge and you will benefit from access to the latest thinking, equipment and resources.
All staff teach third year options, which are linked to their own area of research, which include topics such as bioarchaeology and Egyptology.
You will be encouraged to participate in research projects and be able to choose a dissertation topic that contributes to original research to a project.
All students have a Personal Tutor who is available for advice and support throughout your studies.
You will also benefit from our first-year tutorial system, which will support you with your study methods and core skills.
There are also several services on campus where you can get advice and information, including the Students’ Guild Advice Unit.
You will be assessed by a variety of methods.
Some modules require you to sit exams, whilst others are assessed by essays and projects.
Practical modules are examined by the preparation of written reports, portfolios of work, oral presentations, practical assignments, fieldwork notebooks, or take-away papers to allow time for research and perhaps appropriate field or museum visits.
You must pass your first year in order to progress to the second year: these results do not count towards your degree classification.
The assessments in the second year, year abroad (if applicable) and final year will contribute to your final degree classification.
As a member of the Archaeology Department and key part of our student community you will have full access to our exceptional, modern facilities:
The University of Exeter's Science, Heritage and Archaeology Digital 3D (SHArD 3D) Laboratory, is a state-of-the-art facility dedicated to digitally replicating and preserving biological and cultural artefacts.
Funded by nearly £893,000 from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), SHArD 3D employs advanced scanning and microscopy techniques to create detailed 3D models, enhancing the study of archaeological finds and bio-cultural heritage.
This cutting-edge laboratory offers students unparalleled opportunities to engage with the latest digital preservation technologies, including portable 3D scanning equipment for fieldwork and a microCT scanner for non-destructive imaging of artefacts.
Collaborations with institutions like Exeter’s Royal Albert Memorial Museum will further enrich the learning experience, providing practical skills in digital archiving and analysis.
By studying Archaeology at the University of Exeter, students will be at the forefront of innovative research methods, preparing them for dynamic careers in heritage preservation and forensic analysis.
Learn more about our facilities
On top of all that we also have extensive reference collections of artefacts, animal bones and plant remains.
So whatever your specific interests within archaeology we have the kit for it.
And of course you will have access to the wider resources of the University too, including the Library and Special Collections.
Archaeology combines humanities and scientific disciplines, providing good opportunities to develop the skills that are attractive to employers.
This course is designed to develop your skills of analysis, assessment and interpretation, as well as the production of written and oral reports.
Teamwork, problem solving, analysis, research, presentation and organisational skills are all developed through a programme that is both practical and theoretical.
Your employability skills are also enhanced through a range of careers initiatives we offer that are specific to the profession, including ‘professional modules’ involving work experience.
We have a dedicated, award-winning Careers Service, ensuring you have access to careers advisors, mentors and the tools you need to succeed in finding employment in your chosen field on graduation.
The Exeter Award and the Exeter Leaders Award schemes encourage you to participate in employability related workshops, skills events, volunteering and employment which will contribute to your career decision-making skills and success in the employment market.
Our graduates compete very successfully in the employment market, with many employers targeting the University when recruiting new graduates.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to archaeology but also in wider fields such as teaching, media and business.
Examples of roles recent graduates are now working as include:
Many of our students successfully progress to postgraduate study or training in a range of areas.
Recent graduates have progressed to postgraduate courses in:
View all Archaeology courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology/anthropology:
BA Sociology and Anthropology - 2026 entry
A-Levels: ABB-BBB IB: 32/655-30/555 BTEC: DDM
with Employment Experience
with Employment Experience Abroad
Top 15 in the UK for Sociology
Joint 15th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Commitment to interdisciplinary teaching and research
Top 10 for Sociology in the Complete University Guide 2026
100% of our Sociology research has internationally excellent impact
Based on research impact rated 4* + 3* in REF 2021.
Our research in Sociology, Philosophy, Anthropology and Criminology was returned to this UoA
Doing Sociology and Anthropology meant that there were so many modules to choose from.
I found all of my lecturers and tutorial leaders to be engaging and they helped to make the course even more interesting.
It’s given me a new world-view on a number of topics I wouldn’t necessarily have considered.
I have also met so many people through the flexibility of the course being mixed with criminology, politics, anthropology, psychology (and more) students which has meant that I have also been able to see how different disciplines think academically compared to my main discipline of sociology.
It is really interesting to have friends who think very differently to you but on the same thing!
Read more from Genevieve
Genevieve
Undergraduate student, BA Sociology and Anthropology
The Sociology and Anthropology degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
Full-time undergraduate students need to complete modules worth a total of 120 credits each year.
In combined honours degrees like this you will take an equal amount of credits from each subject.
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of sociological and anthropological theory and concepts, and how to think critically about the key challenges of studying diverse human societies.
You will also gain important analytical techniques that will be useful across a range of subjects and research tasks.
60 credits of compulsory Sociology modules, and 60 credits of compulsory Anthropology modules
In the second year you will advance your grasp of sociological and anthropological knowledge and methods through a set of compulsory modules.
Optional modules enable you to develop specialist knowledge on a range of topics.
60 credits of compulsory Sociology modules, and 30 credits of compulsory Anthropology modules
30 credits of Stage 2 Anthropology modules.
View option modules here (ANT)
Find out more about placement options
a - Students must choose one of the two dissertation modules
If taking Sociology Dissertation, select a further 30 credits of Sociology options and 60 credits Anthropology options.
If taking Anthropology Dissertation, select a further 30 credits of Anthropology options and 60 credits Sociology options.
BA Sociology and Anthropology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: L3L7
BA Sociology and Anthropology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: L3L8
BA Sociology and Anthropology with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: L3L9
We use a wide range of teaching and learning methods and also ensure that you have regular tutorials with your tutor, together with a small group of students to discuss oral and written assignments.
As a Sociology and Anthropology graduate you will have the ability to understand human culture, society and behaviour which will be attractive to employers across a wide spectrum of employers.
Alongside this you will also develop a range of professional, academic and personal skills including:
The wealth of transferable skills gained on a Sociology degree enables graduate to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:
Many of our students participate in the Exeter Award and Exeter Leaders Award .
These schemes encourage you to participate in employability related workshops, skills events, volunteering and employment which will contribute to your career decision-making skills and success in the employment market.
View all Sociology courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/theology/religion:
BA Religion, Culture and Society - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABB IB: 32/655 BTEC: DDM
A-Level: BBC IB: 28/554 BTEC: DMM
1 in the UK for our world-leading research in Theology and Religious Studies
Research Excellence Framework 2021
Top 10 for Theology and Religious Studies in UK subject rankings
6th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top 100 in the world for Theology, Divinity and Religious Studies
Opportunities for study abroad and employment experience in the UK or abroad
BA Religion, Culture and Society​ offers you the chance to study religion in the public square and contemporary contexts from a range of different perspectives, to understand how religions have shaped societies from the ancient past until the present day and continue to play a part in understanding and responding to global challenges.
You will have the opportunity to choose modules that reflect your interests – ranging from how debates around issues such as gender identity and the ethics of AI intersect with religion, to how cultures and societies respond to and remember traumatic events.
The first year offers an introduction to key concepts and an overview of different approaches to the study of religion, culture, and society.
In the second and third years you will have the opportunity to choose optional modules as you build a programme that follows your personal interests and passions.
a - THE1072 and THE1070 run in alternate years
Not all options are offered every year and options on the programme may change periodically
THE1072 and THE1070 run in alternate years.
120 credits of optional modules
Modules at stages 2 and 3 are taught together, so will not run in consecutive years.
The list below is indicative.
Find out more about study abroad or employment experience under Course variants .
Choose 90 credits of options
BA Religion, Culture and Society with Study Abroad
UCAS code: V618
Please refer to your College Study Abroad co-ordinator for further details.
BA Religion, Culture and Society with Employment Experience
UCAS code: V620
Our four-year ‘with Employment Experience’ degree offers you the possibility of spending your third year carrying out a graduate-level work placement or placements within the UK as part of your degree.
A work placement will dramatically boost your confidence, enhance your CV and develop graduate-level skills and competencies that employers are looking for.
BA Religion, Culture and Society with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: V619
Our four-year ‘with Employment Experience Abroad’ degree offers you the possibility of spending your third year abroad, carrying out a graduate-level work placement or placements as part of your degree.
Our teaching is closely linked to our innovative research, giving you the opportunity to explore many diverse topics concerning religion, culture and society, and religion’s interactions with the public sphere.
The nature of university learning, especially in the humanities, involves a lot of self-directed study and research.
As well as traditional lectures, seminars, and small group tutorials, led by internationally respected academics at the forefront of research, you’ll be encouraged to take the initiative by organising study groups, taking advantage of online and traditional learning resources, and managing your own workload and time.
Strong emphasis is placed on acquiring a variety of skills that will be attractive to employers in your future working life.
Class sizes are on average 25-35 students for lectures and 10-15 students for seminar.
You’ll have around 10 hours of contact time with staff per week in your first year, and you’ll need to do around 30 additional hours of self-directed study and research per week.
Modules are designed to help you develop a range of intellectual, transferable and personal skills throughout your degree.
Our Staff-Student Liaison Committee meets once a term to review existing modules, consider new ones and discuss ways our courses can be improved.
Our approach to religion, culture and society is interdisciplinary and relates the broad areas studied to politics, social sciences, the arts, material culture, literary studies, ethics and more.
We’re actively engaged in introducing new methods of learning and teaching, including increasing use of interactive computer-based approaches to learning through our virtual learning environment where the details of all modules are stored in an easily navigable website.
Students can access detailed information about modules and learning outcomes, and interact through activities such as the discussion forums.
Each year we arrange various guest lectures and study days led by visiting speakers, including the regular series of Prideaux Lectures and Posbury St Francis Lectures which showcase the work of international scholars in religion, culture and society.
Students also have the opportunity to learn from guest lecturers and other visiting experts and practitioners.
We believe that every student benefits from being part of a culture that is inspired by research and where modules are taught by experts.
Your lecturers will be contributing to the latest developments in their field and their teaching will be highly relevant to contemporary issues.
We have a vigorous research culture spanning a wide range of subject areas, with strengths in religion, ethics, social contexts, and public issues.
Assessments vary across modules and may include diverse assessment types such as essays, seminar presentations, group work tasks, blogs and wikis, podcasts, and analysis of written, visual and other texts.
In the second and final years, coursework (including assessed seminar presentations and essays) is likely to account for the majority of your assessment depending on which modules you choose.
You must pass your first-year modules in order to proceed; however, this level does not count towards your final degree classification.
To be eligible for ‘Study Abroad’ you will need to attain an average of 60% or more in your first year.
The assessments in your second year, year abroad (if applicable) and final year will contribute to your final degree classification.
Studying Religion, Culture and Society will provide you with valuable skills and abilities which are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers, such as:
We have a dedicated, award-winning Careers Service , ensuring you have access to careers advisors, mentors and the tools you need to succeed in finding employment in your chosen field on graduation.
We predict that graduates of this degree may find employment in:
A degree in Religion, Culture and Society will also put you in an excellent position to pursue postgraduate study after you have graduated.
You may be interested in enrolling on courses such as:
View all Theology and Religion courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/arabislamic/marabic:
Undergraduate MArabic (Master of Arabic and Islamic studies) - 2026 entry
4th in the UK for African & Middle Eastern Studies
Top 3 in the Russell Group for student satisfaction in all seven themes
National Student Survey 2024
Work placements overseas to support career development
3rd for Middle Eastern and African Studies
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
As you can imagine Arabic is a small course, though we have one of the biggest programmes for it in England.
This means that the level of individual support and attention we get is incredible.
I know that all my teachers truly know how I learn and how best to support me and if I need any more support I know that I can always go to them for help.
All the lecturers are very passionate and find enriching ways to teach us.
One of my favourite lessons was the last day of term where our lecturer hid clues in Arabic all around our institute and we were all running around the building trying to solve it with these massive dictionaries.
Read more from Sumiah
Sumiah
MArabic
You must take the compulsory modules listed below.
These total 105 credits.
You must therefore choose an additional 15 credit option module either from within the Institute of Arabic and Islamic studies or from outside of the department (under modularity) as long as any necessary prerequisites have been satisfied, where the timetable allows and if you have not already taken the module in question or an equivalent module.
You must achieve a stage average of 50% including a mark of at least 50% in ARA1033B to be eligible to study abroad in stage 2 of the programme.
If you do not achieve a 50% stage average and at least 50% in ARA1033B, you will be required to either repeat stage 1 of the programme or to transfer to a 3 year programme of study that does not include study abroad.
A maximum of 15 credits of options can be chosen from options not listed in the programme specifications, including Arab and Islamic Studies options.
Stage 2 is spent abroad in an accredited institution (which has a formal study abroad agreement with the University of Exeter) along with a work placement in the Arabic-speaking world directly following the study abroad period.
You must select a further 60 credits of options modules.
View optional modules here https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=arabislamicstudies
You may select up to 30 credits  from outside of the department (under modularity) as long as any necessary prerequisites have been satisfied, where the timetable allows and if you have not already taken the module in question or an equivalent module.
In the final stage of the degree, you undertake postgraduate Masters modules
Stage 4 includes i) a further period of study abroad during part of the Autumn Term (spent in an accredited institution in the Arabic-speaking world) and ii) a short work placement in the Arabic-speaking world directly following the study abroad period.
Please note that these periods of study and work abroad are explicitly linked to the Advanced Arabic Language module.
ONE 30 credit postgraduate module from the portfolio of IAIS Masters modules available.
We use a wide range of teaching methods as well as encouraging independent study
The Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies has its own dedicated building that includes a state-of-the-art language laboratory and computing facilities for undergraduate students.
ExeTalks are a chance to discover some of the fascinating research undertaken at the University of Exeter delivered by the academics who teach on our programmes.
You will spend the second year at one of our accredited Arabic language study centres.
Immersed in the culture of an Arabic country, you’ll supplement your language training through practical application.
We currently have students in Amman in Jordan, but opportunities may also be available in other locations.
Destinations are carefully chosen depending on conditions in the region and the latest details can be found on our website.
Many of our students take the opportunity to travel throughout the region once they complete their assessments.
On return, you will have increased your fluency in the language and gained an invaluable cultural appreciation of the region.
MArabic students have an additional opportunity to study and work abroad in their final (fourth) year, again at an accredited Arabic language centre.
A degree in Middle East Studies will give you an appreciation and understanding of the culture, history and language of the Middle East which will be valued by employers in both the public and private sectors.
Alongside this you will gain a range of academic and professional skills including:
The broad range of transferable skills gained on our MArabic degree enables graduates to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:
Many of our students participate in The Exeter Award and The Exeter Leaders Award.
View all Arab and Islamic Studies courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/arabislamic/arabic_politics:
BA Arabic and Politics - 2026 entry
Top 100 in the world for Politics
Top 150 in the world for Political Sciences
Global Ranking of Academic Subjects (GRAS) or Shanghai Rankings 2024
The BA Arabic and Politics degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
You may also be able to take up to 30 credits each year from outside the department (under modularity) as long as any necessary prerequisites have been satisfied, where the timetable allows and if you have not already taken the module in question or an equivalent module.
90 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules
Politics modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=politics
60 credits of core modules, 60 credits of option modules
Year 4
30 credit core module, 90 credits of option modules
Arabic modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=arabislamicstudies Politics modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=politics
A degree in Arabic and Politics will give you an appreciation and understanding of the culture, history and language of the Middle East which will be valued by employers in both the public and private sectors.
Many of our students participate in The Exeter Award and The Exeter Leaders Award .
Below are a few examples* of initial jobs undertaken by graduates of University of Exeter Arab and Islamic Studies undergraduate programmes.
(* This information has been taken from the Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) Survey)
Further study is a popular choice for a number of students following graduation.
Below are a few examples* of further study undertaken by recent graduates of undergraduate programmes.
Please note that, due to data protection, the subjects of study and institutions are listed independently and do not necessarily correspond.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/arabislamic/mideast:
BA Middle East Studies - 2026 entry
A-Level: BBC-BCC IB: 28/ 554-26/544 BTEC: DMM
Unprecedented support for study abroad including dialect training and staff visits
The BA Middle East Studies degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
You will study the history, politics, society and economics of the Middle East, as well as the basic principles of Islam.
You will also choose from a list of modules in history, politics and sociology.
View option modules here - https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=arabislamicstudies
You will continue your study of history, politics, society and economics of the Middle East, as well as the philosophy, theology, practices, traditions, poetry and law of Islam.
120 credits of optional modules.
Not all optional modules will be available every year and the lists may be supplemented by additional level 2 Middle Eastern Studies modules in any particular year.
The centre-point of the final year is the dissertation.
This provides you with the opportunity to explore an area of interest and to demonstrate what you have learned over the previous years of your degree.
Not all optional modules will be available every year and these lists may be supplemented by additional level 2 and 3 Middle Eastern Studies modules in any particular year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/languages/modlang-arabic:
BA Modern Languages and Arabic - 2026 entry
Top 150 in world subject rankings for Modern Languages and Cultures
Largest purpose-built Middle East centre in the UK
Year abroad spent studying at a partner university or in employment
Studying Modern Languages isn’t just about poring over endless grammar notes!
Our course is so rich and varied that you will have the fantastic opportunity to develop not only your language skills, but a knowledge and interest in the culture of your chosen languages.
If you ask any student about the course, I very much doubt you will come away without them mentioning the Year Abroad, which for many is the highlight of the four years.
I still cannot quite believe that I managed to go from working as a waitress over the summer in France, to studying in Italy, then to working as a marketing assistant in Spain all within the space of a year!
Aside from massively improving my language skills and cultural knowledge, this year definitely opened my eyes to the amazing opportunities out there for language students, and certainly made me realise how well my course and the support at the University of Exeter has prepared me for more exciting opportunities like this in the future.
Read more from Kate
Kate
BA Modern Languages (French, Italian and Spanish)
When completing your UCAS form for RT60 indicate the modern language and route you wish to study under ‘Further details’ in the ‘choices’ section of the application using the abbreviations below.
Please note that you may choose only one language.
It may be possible to study further languages to a lower level of proficiency than degree level in the Foreign Language Centre, subject to demand: this is arranged on registration at Exeter.
For further information on completing your UCAS form, please visit the UCAS website .
An A-Level grade B or IB HL5 or SL6 (or equivalent) in one of the five non-Arabic languages offered for this programme (French, German, Italian, Russian or Spanish).
We are only able to guarantee a place on the relevant language programme(s) if this information is included on your UCAS form.
However, we understand that you may change your mind about the language you want to continue with or take up, so if you wish to change the choice of language(s) given on your UCAS application at any stage please contact either our Admissions Office who will be able to confirm whether or not you are eligible for consideration for a different language.
If you do wish to be considered for an alternative language please make your request as early as possible, as capacity and planning constraints may limit our ability to allow late changes to your language choice.
The Modern Languages and Arabic degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each, worth a total of 120 credits each year.
Take up to 30 credits outside the department through modularity.
You will develop fundamental language skills such as reading, speaking, translating and writing, learning to perfect the delicate nuances of intonation, tone and inflection in your voice to become a skilled linguist.
You will also study modules on Arab literature and on Islam and Arab history.
Open modules on linguistics, literature, medieval history, visual arts, film and culture will offer you the chance to further customise your programme to suit your specific needs and preferences.
60 credits of compulsory Arabic modules, 30 credits of compulsory Modern Languages modules, 30 credits of optional Modern Languages modules
Subject to choosing 120 credits for the stage overall, you must:
a select 60 credits of compulsory modules in Arabic.
b select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
c - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules for the year.
Please note that certain modules may only be available to students on Single Honours programmes, or to students who have taken a particular language module.
This information will be given in the pre-requisites or co-requisites section of the relevant module descriptor.
International Study Placement
Find out more about the International Placement .
120 credit compulsory Arabic placement module
30 credits of compulsory Arabic modules, 30 credits of compulsory Modern Languages modules, 30 credits of optional Arabic modules and 30 credits of optional Modern Languages modules
c - You must select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
d - select 30 credits of ARA2 Arabic option modules from this list.
e - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
It is your responsibility to ensure that credit for SML modules can be counted towards the language of your study, where this is necessary for your credit count
30 credits of compulsory Arabic, 30-60 credits of optional Arabic modules, 30-60 credits of compulsory Modern Languages modules, 30-60 credits of optional Modern Languages modules
Subject to selecting 120 credits in the stage you must:
f - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language
g - select 30 credits of ARA3 Arabic option modules from this list.
h - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; These are additional to SML3015.
You may, alternatively, take SML3030.
O n the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
Please note you may only select one dissertation module across the two programmes: either ARA3106 or SML3030
All undergraduate Arabic language students on a four-year programme spend their second year at one of our accredited Arabic language study centres.
The International Study Placement  is an integral part of the study of Arabic, advancing your knowledge of grammar and syntax as well as reading, writing, speaking and listening skills.
It provides an excellent opportunity for students of Arabic to become immersed in Arabic society and culture, and to gain fluency in a spoken dialect of the Arabic Language.
International Study Placement destinations can obviously vary from year to year dependent on current events in the Middle East and North Africa.
The International Study Placement is an assessed year and the marks obtained count towards your final degree classification.
If you would like to arrange the year differently, you should first speak with the Programme Director for your language and/or the Study Abroad Officer.
For your International Study Placement you will pay a significantly reduced tuition fee to Exeter – for more information visit our fees pages .
You will also continue to receive any Student Finance support for which you are eligible.
Other financial support may also be available for certain students.
Written language is taught through weekly classes, with teams of tutors, including native speakers who contribute to a programme aimed at grammar improvement and the development of advanced writing and translating skills.
You’ll also have weekly oral practice in classes of eight to 10 students with native speakers of the language(s) that you are studying.
Teaching on our culture modules is varied: a class about linguistics takes a rather different form than a class about theatre or film, for instance.
Most cultural modules involve a combination of lectures and seminars, backed up by smaller group work and web-based learning, via the University’s online learning environment.
Between classes you prepare material, evidence and arguments, individually or in groups.
Seminars are your chance to try out ideas, present material to other members of the group, and respond to new material based on the critical skills you’ve been taught.
Coursework and exams (essays, source commentaries, research exercises, oral presentations), online assessment (for language and culture modules).​
All language students have access to the language-learning facilities provided by the Language Centre.
A degree in Modern Languages and Arabic gives you an appreciation and understanding of the culture, history and language of the Middle East and French-speaking countries.
You will develop analytical and research skills as well as an awareness of different interpretations of issues and events, develop opinions and use effective communication skills to put forward your ideas and conclusions.
You will also develop your time-management skills.
All these skills are valued by employers from many different fields and can open career paths in a wide variety of areas from academic research and government work to more commercially based careers in law and business.
We have a dedicated, award-winning Careers Service, with offices at our Streatham Campus, ensuring you have access to careers advisors, mentors and the tools you need to succeed in finding employment in your chosen field on graduation.
We offer the Exeter Award and the Exeter Leaders Award which include employability-related workshops, skills events, volunteering and employment which will contribute to your career decision-making skills and success in the employment market.
For further information please visit our Careers Service .
Recent Graduates now working as*:
Recent Graduates now working for*:
A Modern Languages degree is also excellent preparation for postgraduate study, and recent graduates have progressed to a range of courses, including:
View all Modern Languages and Cultures courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/archaeology/arch:
BA Archaeology - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABB-BBB IB: 30/555 BTEC: DDM
4th in the UK for internationally excellent Archaeology research
Based on research rated 4* and 3* in REF 2021
BA Archaeology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: V401
If you are Studying Abroad for a semester or full year, your time abroad will count toward your final degree.
BA Archaeology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: V402
BA Archaeology with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: V403
Fieldwork is an essential part of our undergraduate Archaeology courses and you will have the opportunity to attend regular trips to museums, archives and archaeological sites.
All students have the opportunity to spend time in the field, usually over the summer between the first and second year.
This will often take place on a university-led excavation, but students may also register on approved external digs.
Excavation may take you far from home, or just around the corner; over recent years Exeter students have experienced fieldwork in as diverse locations as Argentina, Sri Lanka, Kazakhstan, South Dakota,Texas, Hungary and here in Devon.
In some cases, fieldwork may consist of archaeological work in a museum rather than excavation.
An Ofsted report on recurrent funding for 2021/22 describes Archaeology graduates as “crucial to the sustainability of the UK workforce in development-led archaeology”.
It highlights the national shortage of archaeologists due to the huge increase in major construction projects with field workers being recruited abroad to make up the deficit.
They’ve highlighted Archaeology as a recognised construction skill and a “necessary part of the supply chain for the delivery of housing and infrastructure development, for instance HS2, Crossrail, and the A14 corridor project.” It’s also essential to meet planning policy requirements, particularly when it comes to delivering sustainable development.
One comment in the report also noted that “at least 50 per cent of exiting archaeology undergraduates will need to enter the profession to feed the current forecast pipeline of work.
Actual numbers of archaeology graduates currently entering the profession are close to 10 per cent of the annual cohort […] currently 90 per cent of professional archaeologists in the UK have at least one undergraduate qualification in the subject.
There is currently no alternative training pipeline for this kind of expertise on the scale required.”

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/archaeology/arch-science:
BSc Archaeological Science - 2026 entry
Unique course which provides training in the theory and practice of archaeological scientific methods to investigate the past
45 credits of compulsory modules, 75 credits of optional modules.
a - You must take either ARC2003 or ARC2004 (you can only take one of these modules).
b - You must take at least a total of 60 credits of 'Scientific' modules from across this and the final stage 'Scientific Modules' groups.
60 credits of compulsory Dissertation, 60 credits of optional
c - You can only take one module from either ARC3003 or ARC3136.
d - You must take at least a total of 60 credits of 'Scientific' modules from across this and the stage 2 'Scientific Modules' groups.
BSc Archaeological Science with Study Abroad
UCAS code: F421
Our four-year ‘with Study Abroad’ degree, offers you the possibility of spending your third year abroad, studying with one of our many partner universities.
Please refer to your Study Abroad co-ordinator for further details.
BSc Archaeological Science with Employment Experience
UCAS code: F422
We will provide plenty of guidance and support during your first and second years which will prepare you to research and apply for placements.
BSc Archaeological Science with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: F423
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers.
Should you want to progress onto a career in the Archaeology, Heritage or Museum sectors, the Archaeological Science degree at Exeter will equip you with the skills which you will need to succeed.
You will have the opportunity to progress to a wide range of careers in areas, such as archaeological research and consultancy, conservation, local government planning, commercial labs and units, education, business, finance and defence.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/archaeology/forensic:
BSc Archaeology with Forensic Science - 2026 entry
75 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules.
45 credits of compulsory modules, 75 credits of optional modules
BSc Archaeology with Forensic Science with Study Abroad
UCAS code: 54ZW
BSc Archaeology with Forensic Science with Employment Experience
UCAS code: F492
BSc Archaeology with Forensic Science with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: F493

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/classics/ancientarch:
BA Ancient History and Archaeology - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB-ABB IB: 34/665- 32/655 BTEC: DDM
A-Level: BBB-BBC IB: 30/555-28/554 BTEC: DMM
Top 10 in the UK for Classics and Ancient History
7th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top 50 in the world for Classics and Ancient History
Coming to the University of Exeter to study Archaeology was definitely the right decision.
All the professors and lecturers in the department were willing to connect with the students, which made me feel like I'm a part of the community and not just a student at the department.
During my 3 years in Exeter I was blessed with the opportunity to participate in archaeological fieldwork in both the United States and Kazakhstan as part of my course under the guidance of professors.
These experiences abroad were not only eye-opening, but also helped me discover my passion for archaeology that I did not have beforehand.
Read more from Hei Chun Ho
Hei Chun Ho
30 credits of compulsory Archaeology modules, 30 credits of compulsory Ancient History modules, 30 credits of optional Archaeology modules, 30 credits of optional Ancient History module
a - select either CLA1001 or CLA1002; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
b - select 30 credits of Archaeology modules from this list.
c - select 30 credits of Ancient History modules from this list.
60 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules in Archaeology and 30 credits of optional modules in Ancient History.
d - You must take either ARC2003 or ARC2004 (you cannot choose both).
e - select either CLA2001 or CLA2002; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
f - select 30 credits of Archaeology modules from this list.
g - select 30 credits of Ancient History modules from this list.
30 credits of compulsory modules, 30-60 credits of optional modules in Archaeology, 30-60 credits of optional modules in Ancient History (depending on the dissertation chosen)
h - You must select either ARC3000 or CLA3009 (you cannot take both modules).
i - If you select CLA3009, you must take 60 credits of options from the Archaeology list.
j - If you select ARC3000 must take 60 credits of options from the Ancient History list.
BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VV1K
BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VV2K
BA Ancient History and Archaeology with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VV3K
Our department has a relaxed and friendly atmosphere and you’ll benefit from small group teaching and plenty of contact with staff.
You’ll learn through lectures, seminars, tutorials, field trips and computer-led learning.
Seminars complement lectures by encouraging you to explore issues in small group discussion meetings and our first-year tutorial system concentrates on study methods and core skills.
We frequently employ experiments in our teaching about ancient technologies (e.g., flint knapping, pot making, bronze smelting and casting).
Everyone completes at least four weeks’ practical work, usually during the first summer vacation, and we have excellent provision of technical equipment for field study, including GPS, total station theodolite and geophysical equipment.
You’ll have 1-3 teaching hours per module per week and will need to allow for additional hours of private study.
You should expect your total workload to average about 40 hours per week during term time.
Research-led teaching ensures lectures are up-to-date and relevant and you will benefit from access to the latest thinking, equipment and resources.
All staff teach third year options which are linked to their own interests which include the study of topics, as diverse as maritime archaeology and Egyptology.
You’ll also be encouraged to participate in research projects and be able to choose dissertation topics that contribute original research to a project.
Assessment includes formal exams and assessed coursework, including essays and projects as well as practical assignments and field work notebooks.
Formal exams contribute about 40 per cent of your overall assessment.
You must pass your first-year modules in order to proceed: this level does not count towards your final degree classification.
The assessments in the second year, year abroad (if applicable) and final year will contribute towards your final degree classification.
A degree in Classics and Ancient History, will provide you with skills which are highly valuable to employers across many sectors.
You will develop an advanced knowledge of other cultures, learn how to think logically and independently, to interpret and critique sources, to assess and evaluate information and to communicate (verbally and in writing) in a sophisticated way.
We have a dedicated, award-winning Careers Service ensuring you have access to careers advisors, mentors and the tools you need to succeed in finding employment in your chosen field on graduation.
As a Classics and Ancient History graduate, you will have an array of different industries open to you, such as museum and heritage work, education, journalism, business, and law.
Our recent graduates have since secured a variety of positions, such as:
A degree in Classics and Ancient History will put you in an excellent position to pursue postgraduate study after you have graduated.
Our recent graduates have since enrolled on courses such as:
View all Classics and Ancient History courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history/hist-arch:
BA History and Archaeology - 2026 entry
We are 6th in the UK for research in History
Based on our GPA in REF 2021
Top 100 in world subject rankings for History
I have thoroughly enjoyed my time at the University of Exeter where I have studied History and Archaeology.
Each academic year has been both challenging and interesting, enabling me to develop on skills and knowledge that I have acquired from the previous modules from Year 1 to Year 3.
In every module the Lecturers and Tutors have taught with great enthusiasm and have always ensured that their lectures are engaging and encourage debate.
As a joint honours student, History has aided me greatly in my other discipline, Archaeology.
Namely, by providing historical context to my Archaeology modules especially the medieval period.
Moreover, it has been most advantageous in helping me in approaching and analysing textual sources alongside the physical primary evidence that Archaeology utilizes.
Read more from Giulia
Giulia
BA History and Archaeology
The History and Archaeology degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
30 credits of compulsory Archaeology modules, 45 credits of compulsory History modules, 30 credits of optional Archaeology modules, 15 credits of optional History modules.
a - You must select HIH1421 Understanding Medieval and Early Modern History OR HIH1422 Understanding Modern History.
b - Select 30 credits from Stage 1 Option Modules Archaeology
c - Select 15 credits from Stage 1 Option Modules History
30 credits of compulsory Archaeology modules, 30 credits of optional Archaeology modules, 60 credits of optional History modules.
d - Select ARC2003 or ARC2004 from Stage 2 Compulsory Modules
e - Select 30 credits from Stage 2 Option Modules Archaeology .
Select 60 credits from a single History Route A, B, C or D .
You must take HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age if you intend to select HIH3005 History Dissertation or HIH3006 Research Dissertation in the final stage.
History Route A 2 History option modules.
Archaeology Dissertation in final stage History Route B HIH2002 Uses of the Past + 1 other History option.
Archaeology Dissertation in final stage History Route C HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age + 1 other History option.
History Dissertation in final stage
History Route D HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age + HIH2002 Uses of the Past.
120 credit compulsory placement module
For your year abroad you will agree a suite of modules in your host institution with the Faculty Study Abroad Coordinator.
Details of individual modules that may be taken whilst abroad can be found by accessing the partner institution’s factfile at http://www.exeter.ac.uk/international/abroad/where/ and navigating to the “Course Requirements” section of that factfile where a link to the modules on offer in the partner institution is displayed.
0-30 credits of compulsory Archaeology modules, 0-30 credits of compulsory History modules, 30-60 credits of optional Archaeology modules, and 30-60 credits of optional History modules.
Route A or B taken in Stage 2 - Select ARC3000 Archaeology Dissertation
Route C or D taken in stage 2 - Select either HIH3005 History Dissertation or HIH3006 History Research Dissertation
Route A or B taken in Stage 2 - Select one 30 Credit Archaeology Option.
Select a Special Subject for 60 credits.
Route C or D taken in stage 2 - select 30 credits from Concepts Modules, or 30 credits of option modules from outside of History via modularity.
Select 60 credits of Archaeology options.
If choosing option modules outside of your named subjects, you must make sure that your total for both History and Archaeology is 90 credits each over the second and final year.
This is to insure you meet the requirements needed for the degree title.
BA History and Archaeology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: 1A84
BA History and Archaeology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VV18
BA History and Archaeology with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VV19
Throughout the programmes stress is laid on the need to analyse, discuss and deploy historical evidence in a variety of settings and not simply on the ability to memorise.
You will learn through lectures, tutorials and seminars, with a growing emphasis at each successive level on student-led learning.
Modules are designed to encourage you to think about long-term developments and processes of historical change, and to make comparisons between countries and cultures.
This helps you progress from the more tightly defined topics studied at A level.
Modules are also designed to encourage you to think and write analytically about these broad subjects.
They emphasise historical questions that require you to identify patterns across time, or between countries, and to isolate common or competing trends, instead of concentrating on short-term or single explanations.
You’ll have on average 1-3 teaching hours per module and will need to allow for up to nine additional hours of private study.
As well as attending lectures and writing essays and assignments, you’ll be expected to make presentations in seminars or tutorials.
We encourage your presentation work, because it involves you actively in the teaching and learning process and develops important life skills, such as good verbal and visual communication and effective interaction with other people.
You'll have a personal tutor as well as tutors in individual subjects and they will work with you to monitor your progress, as well as offering pastoral support and other help.
You will have a chance to make your mark on the programmes through regular student evaluations and participation in the Student-Staff Liaison Committees and the student History Societies on both campuses.
All the degrees in History have assessments and examinations each year.
Although formal examinations are important tests of skill, up to 50 per cent of your marks will come from other forms of assessment, including coursework essays, projects, dissertations and measures of your skill in presentation and oral work.
The exact balance will depend on the modules you choose, and you’ll be informed of the methods of assessment before making your choices.
You must pass your first-year assessment in order to progress to the second year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.
For three-year programmes, the assessments in the second and third years contribute to your final degree classification.
For four-year programmes the assessments in the second, third and fourth years all contribute to your final degree classification.
History graduates from the University of Exeter have an excellent reputation with graduate recruiters and compete very successfully in the employment market.
Alongside in-depth subject knowledge you’ll develop highly transferable skills in researching; analysing and assessing sources; written and verbal communication; managing and interpreting information; developing ideas and arguments; teamwork; and problem solving.
We have a dedicated, award-winning Careers Service, with offices at our Exeter and Penryn campuses, ensuring you have access to careers advisors, mentors and the tools you need to succeed in finding employment in your chosen field on graduation.
You will be equipped with skills that are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers, including graduate-level roles in the heritage and arts sectors as well as other fields of work, including TV, education, retail management, recruitment, charities, finance and accounting, and journalism.
A History degree may also lead to further study or research and recent graduates have progressed to postgraduate courses in:
View all History courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art/arthist:
BA Art History & Visual Culture - 2026 entry
A-Levels: ABB IB: 32/655 BTEC: DDM
Top 15 in the UK for History of Art, Architecture and Design
12th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Internationally recognised fine art, heritage and film collections on site, including the Bill Douglas Cinema Museum
Variety of approaches to learning, including study in the field at galleries and museums
Spend an intensive one week study trip in one of Europe’s renowned cultural centres
30 credits of compulsory Dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules
BA Art History & Visual Culture with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VW32
BA Art History & Visual Culture with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VW33
BA Art History & Visual Culture with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VW34
You will be taught by internationally respected staff, who are leading researchers in their specialisms.
We use a wide variety of techniques and approaches including seminars, lectures, study groups and web-based learning, as well as valuable field study.
We integrate the latest approaches with traditional learning and teaching to give you a varied and challenging programme.
As you study the compulsory modules, you will learn through individual practical and project work, teamwork and a research project, all of which are designed to help you develop key skills for success throughout your degree and into your future career.
You will be assessed in a variety of ways but primarily through exams and coursework.
Coursework includes essays, a dissertation and presentation work.
The ratio of formal exams to coursework is on average 40:60 (depending on your choice of modules).
Your first year doesn’t count towards your final degree classification, but you do have to pass it in order to progress.
In order to be eligible for ‘with Study Abroad’ programmes, you will need to attain an average of 60 per cent or more in your first year.
In your first year, you will receive a minimum of 10 hours of contact with academic staff per week.
You will also be expected to attend other activities such as study groups, workshop activities and film screenings.
Your total workload should average about 40 hours per week during term time.
The exact amount of time spent working independently varies from module to module.
Teaching that is inspired by research ensures lectures are up-to-date and relevant: you will benefit from access to the latest thinking, equipment and resources.
All options are taught by staff with expertise including art history, architecture, film, photography, visual media, art and technology, curation and exhibition, mixed and virtual realities, performance art and visual culture in the UK and abroad.
All students have access to a personal tutor who is available for advice and support throughout your studies.
Studying Art History & Visual Culture equips students with a broad range of highly desirable transferable skills in analysis, critique, research and theoretical and practical creativity.
These will prepare you to enter a wide variety of professions.
You will also develop specialist knowledge of everything from traditional art forms such as architecture and sculpture, to today’s visual practices such as film, video, performance and digital art.
You will benefit from productive engagement with collections, institutions and art groups in the area, in tandem with the wider arts community in the South West and beyond.
The Art History & Visual Culture programme prepares its graduates to undertake postgraduate study or training in areas such as education, arts management and journalism, amongst others.
Recent graduates have gone on to study:
Art History & Visual Culture graduates compete very successfully in the employment market, with many employers targeting the University when recruiting new graduates.
View all Art History & Visual Culture courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art/arthistclassics:
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Classical Studies - 2026 entry
Proactive Classics Society with successful student tutor scheme
Studying at Exeter has been a brilliant experience, it felt like the right choice from the first open day I visited.
Exeter has provided me with access to work experience in the local arts centres and museums, and has given me the opportunity to travel and visit the art we study in class.
In my experience lecturers go above and beyond to provide academic support for students, as do the Wellbeing and Accessibility Services.
I have also been able to join a range of academic and social societies, in which I have made friends for life.
Read more from India
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Classics
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 30 credits of compulsory Classical Studies modules, 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 30 credits of optional Classical Studies modules.
a - select either CLA1005 or CLA1006; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
b - select either AHV1005 and AHV1009, or AHV1012, selecting 30 credits in total.
c - select 30 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
d - select either CLA2005 or CLA2006; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
e - select 0-30 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules; we recommend selecting at least one module from AHV2002 and AHV2007.
f - select 0-30 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules
30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30-60 credits of Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 30-60 credits of Classical Studies modules).
g - select a Dissertation in either Art History & Visual Culture or Classical Studies: AHV3000 or CLA3009 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
h - if selecting CLA3009, select 60 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules.
i - if selecting AHV3000, select 60 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Classical Studies with Study Abroad
UCAS code: QV84
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Classical Studies with Employment Experience
UCAS code: QV81
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Classical Studies with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: QV82
You will be taught by internationally respected staff who are leading researchers in their specialisms.
We believe it’s really important for you to gain first-hand exposure to works of art and other visual artefacts.
You will profit from engaging with the museums and galleries in the region, in addition to field trips to collections in London and elsewhere.
You will also can develop expertise in curation through the University’s Bill Douglas Cinema Museum.
In the second year of the programme we offer a core module, Art History & Visual Culture Field Study, which involves an intensive study trip abroad to immerse our students in the art, architecture and visual culture of a specific location in Europe.
In recent years our study abroad trip has taken place in Florence Italy*.
There are also a number of services on campus where you can get advice and information, including the Students’ Guild Advice Unit.
The ratio of formal exams to coursework is on average 40: 60 (depending on your choice of modules).
*Field course destination subject to change

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art/arthistdrama:
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Drama - 2026 entry
4th in the UK for Drama, Dance and Cinematics
Complete University Guide 2026
Professional standard performance spaces and state-of-the-art production facilities for video, sound and scenic design
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 60 credits of compulsory Drama modules, and 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules.
a -select either AHV1012 (30 credits) or AHV1005 AND AHV1009 (15 credits each), selecting 30 credits in total.
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules and 60 credits of optional Drama modules.
b - select 30 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules - we recommend selecting at least one module from AHV2002 and AHV2007.
c - select 60 credits from this list of optional Drama modules - Students can only take one practice module and one Drama seminar module.
0-30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 0-30 credits of compulsory Drama modules, 30-60 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 30-60 credits of optional Drama modules.
d - select either AHV3000 or DRA3094 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
if selecting DRA3094, select 30-60 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules.
if selecting AHV3000, select 30-60 credits from this list of optional Drama modules.
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Drama with Study Abroad
UCAS code: WW24
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Drama with Employment Experience
UCAS code: WW22
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Drama with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: WW23
Drama will mainly be taught through studio sessions, which means you will practise the subject as you learn.
At the start of the programme, the emphasis is on group collaborative work, which becomes the basis for the development of your individual interests and skills later on.
Practical class sizes are limited to around 20.
Assessment of each module varies and may include continuous assessment, essay, performance and portfolio or viva interview.
In the first year, most work is assessed continuously through studio practice, seminars and essays.
There are currently no written exams for Drama Single Honours Drama students, however Combined Honours students should refer to the relevant subject’s entry for their other subjects.
You are required to pass your first year in order to progress, but these results do not count towards your final degree classification.
In order to be eligible for ‘with Study Abroad’ programmes, you will need to attain an average of 60% or more in your first year.
Drama is based on two sites on the Streatham Campus.
All the practical spaces we use are reserved solely for Drama students, giving us a high degree of flexibility.
Our facilities include two digital media suites and upgraded technical facilities.
We have six studios fully equipped for stage lighting and sound, 10 other studios and seminar rooms, two sound studios, a video and multimedia studio, state-of-the-art computer facilities for lighting and sound design, costume and props stores and workshops for set construction, costume and prop-making.
The Term Three Festival is a fringe-style experience, providing Drama students with exciting opportunities to showcase additional self-directed, non-assessed work.
Students produce their own performances, take part in workshops, receive technical and practical training, participate in careers and employability sessions and watch over 50 brand new performances as part of the event.
All students have the option to get involved with the Drama Society and a number of student-run theatre companies supported by the Students’ Guild.
In Drama, all staff teach second and third year options which are linked to their own interests, including areas such as theories of actor training, non-western performance, 20th and 21st century theatre practitioners, site-specific performance, applied performance, gender and performance, theatre history, music theatre, arts management and the politics of culture.
Art History and Visual Culture at the University of Exeter is a bold interdisciplinary programme, which will enable you to stand out in the job market.
This programme will give you specialist knowledge of everything from traditional art forms such as architecture and sculpture, to today’s visual practices such as film, video, performance and digital art.
You will develop a broad range of highly desirable skills in analysis, critique, research and theoretical and practical creativity.
The services offered by the careers and employability team are complementary to the services offered by our central Career Zone, where you can participate in practical sessions to develop your skills; access paid internships and volunteering opportunities; explore postgraduate study options; meet prospective employers; get one-to-one advice and learn how to secure the right job for you.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art/arthistenglish:
BA Art History & Visual Culture and English - 2026 entry
A-Level: ACC IB: 28/554 BTEC: DMM
Top 10 in the UK for English
7th in the Complete University Guide 2026
Top 50 in the world for English Language and Literature
The teaching is very hands on, and I always feel that I can talk to my module convenor or personal tutor when I have any queries or concerns regarding my course.
Moving away from Hong Kong was a hard decision, having spent my whole life there, however the social aspect of being at university has allowed me to become an extrovert, networking with people who share a similar interest and passion within the subject of culture and humanities.
Read more from Carrie
Carrie
BA Art History & Visual Culture and English
*Accepted Humanities and Social Science subjects:
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 30 credits of compulsory English modules, 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules and 30 credits of optional English modules.
Subject to choosing 120 credits overall for the stage, you must:
a - select either AHV1005 and AHV1009, or AHV1012, selecting 30 credits in total.
b - select 30 credits from this list of optional English modules.
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules and 60 credits of optional English modules.
Subject to selecting 120 credits overall in the stage, you must:
c - select 30 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules - we recommend selecting at least one module from AHV2002 and AHV2007.
d - select 60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
English modules in stage 2 are divided into three groups: Group 1, modules concerned with pre-1750 literature; Group 2, modules concerned with post-1750 literature; Group 3, modules not concerned with a particular historical period.
Combined Honours students may not take more than one module from each group.
0-30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 0-30 credits of compulsory English modules, 30-60 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 30-60 credits of optional English modules.
e - select a Dissertation in either Art History & Visual Culture or English: AHV3000 or EAS3003 or EAS3122 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
f - if selecting EAS3003 or EAS3122, select 60 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules.
g - if selecting AHV3000, select 60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
BA Art History & Visual Culture and English with Study Abroad
UCAS code: QV34
BA Art History & Visual Culture and English with Employment Experience
UCAS code: QV32
BA Art History & Visual Culture and English with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: QV35
Every year a high proportion of Humanities graduates choose to progress to further study or professional training.
The Art History and Visual Culture programme presents its graduates with opportunity to undertake further study or training in areas such as education, arts management and journalism, amongst others.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art/arthistfilm:
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Film & Television Studies - 2026 entry
Top 10 in the Russell Group for student satisfaction
in all seven themes (National Student Survey 2024: Film)
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 60 credits of compulsory Film Studies modules, and 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules.
a - select either AHV1012 (30 credits) or AHV1005 AND AHV1009 (15 credits each), selecting 30 credits in total.
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 60 credits of optional Film Studies modules.
Subject to selecting 120 credits overall in the stage you must:
b - select 0-30 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules; we recommend selecting at least one module from AHV2002 and AHV2007.
c - select 30-60 credits from this list of optional Film Studies modules.
30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30-60 credits of Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 30-60 credits of Film Studies modules).
d - select either AHV3000 or EAF3514 or EAF3516 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
e - if selecting EAF3514 or EAF3516, select 30-60 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules.
f - if selecting AHV3000, select 30-60 credits from this list of optional Film Studies modules.
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Film & Television Studies with Study Abroad
UCAS code: QV37
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Film & Television Studies with Employment Experience
UCAS code: QV38
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Film & Television Studies with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: QV39
As you study the compulsory modules, you will learn through individual practical and project work, team work and a research project, all of which are designed to help you develop key skills for success throughout your degree and into your future career.
The assessments in the second year, year abroad (if applicable) and final year will contribute to your final degree classification

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art/arthisthistory:
BA Art History & Visual Culture and History - 2026 entry
6th in the UK for research in History
Based on our Grade Point Average (GPA) in REF 2021
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 45 credits of compulsory History modules, 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 15 credits of optional History modules.
b - select one of the three Art History & Visual Culture option modules
c - select 15 credits from this list of optional History modules.
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules and 60 credits of optional History modules.
d - Select 30 credits from Stage 2 Option Modules of Art History & Visual Culture , we recommend selecting at least one module from AHV2002 and AHV2007.
Select 60 credits from a single History Route A, B, C or D .
You must take HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age if you intend to select HIH3005 History Dissertation or HIH3006 Research Dissertation in the final stage).
History Route A 2 History option modules.
Art History & Visual Culture Dissertation in final stage History Route B HIH2002 Uses of the Past + 1 other History option.
Art History & Visual Culture Dissertation in final stage History Route C HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age + 1 other History option.
History Route D HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age + HIH2002 Uses of the Past.
0-30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 0-30 credits of compulsory History modules, 30-60 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 30-60 credits of optional History modules.
Route A or B taken in Stage 2 - Select AHV3000 Art History & Visual Culture Dissertation.
Route C or D taken in stage 2 - Select either HIH3005 History Dissertation or HIH3006 History Research Dissertation.
Route A or B taken in Stage 2 - Select 30 credits of Art History & Visual Culture Options.
Select a Special Subject pair consisting of both a Sources and Context module for 60 credits.
Route C or D taken in stage 2 - Select 30 credits from the Concepts modules, or 30 credits outside History.
Select 60 credits of Art History & Visual Culture options.
If choosing option modules outside of your named subjects, you must make sure that your total for both History and Art History & Visual Culture is 90 credits each over the second and final year.
This is to ensure you meet the requirements needed for the degree title.
BA Art History & Visual Culture and History with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VV 32
BA Art History & Visual Culture and History with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VV 33
BA Art History & Visual Culture and History with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VV 34
For your History modules, you will learn through lectures, tutorials and seminars, with a growing emphasis at each successive level on student-led learning.
Assessment methods vary between modules, but generally include coursework, project work, written exams and various forms of presentation.
Please see the individual module descriptions for further details.
You must pass your first-year assessment, to progress to the second year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.
You’ll receive ten contact hours per week with staff, both in teaching time and with your personal tutor You’re also expected to invest a lot of time in independent study; this involves individual study and contact with your study-group (for example, in preparation for seminars).
All staff teach third year options which are linked to a broad range of their own interests.
All students have access to a personal tutor, who is available for advice and support throughout your studies.
We offer the Exeter Award and the Exeter Leaders Award, which include employability-related workshops, skills events, volunteering and employment which will contribute to your career decision-making skills and success in the employment market.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/art/arthistmodlang:
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA Art History & Visual Culture and Modern Languages (3 years)
International Placement
Study 1-3 languages with 7 language options to choose from
There are significant benefits of choosing the 4-year with International Placement programme, particularly in enhancing your language proficiency.
Both the 4-year and 3-year programmes offer a comprehensive and in-depth study of modern languages and cultures.
However, the 4-year degree includes a valuable international placement year , giving you the opportunity to immerse yourself in the language and culture of your chosen country while either studying or working.
We know that graduates who have studied the 4-year course with a year abroad have benefitted from a range of key skills that have been vital in shaping their early careers:
Please also note that, if you are starting a language from beginner level, you must take the 4-year programme to ensure you develop the necessary language skills.
If you are studying languages post-A-Level, it is possible to choose the 3-year programme.
You can apply to both the 3- and 4-year courses via UCAS.
You may choose one language to study alongside Art History and Visual Culture.
Find out more about the languages we offer below .
Check subject requirements for different language levels
It may be possible to study further languages to a lower level of proficiency than degree level in the Language Centre, subject to demand: this is arranged on registration at Exeter.
When completing your UCAS form it is essential that you indicate the language you want to study with us under ‘further details’ in the ‘choices’ section of the application form, using the below abbreviations.
I want to study a new language at beginner level alongside my other subject (excluding programmes with Arabic)
Chinese (Mandarin); French; German; Italian; Portuguese; Russian; Spanish.
If you study a language from beginners level, you must take the 4-year "with International Placement" version of this degree course.
I want to study my A-Level (or equivalent) language at advanced level alongside my other subject (including programmes with Arabic)
Students studying beginners languages must take the 4-year “ with International Placement ” course.
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 30 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 30 credits of Modern Languages modules.
a select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
c - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme , you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules for the year.
30 credits of compulsory Art History & Visual Culture modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 60 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of Art History & Visual Culture modules, and 30 credits of Modern Languages modules).
d - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
e - select 30 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules; we recommend selecting at least one module from AHV2002 and AHV2007.
f - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
International Placement (work or study)
If you choose the with International Placement variant of this course, your placement will take place in Year 3.
120 credits of compulsory placement module.
g - You must take one of these modules.
60 credits of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
h - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
i - select 60 credits from this list of optional Art History & Visual Culture modules.
j - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; you may select a maximum of 15 credits of the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year, t hese are additional to SML3015.
Please note you may only select one dissertation module across the two programmes.
It is your responsibility to ensure that credit for SML modules can be counted towards the language of your study, where this is necessary for your credit count.
Combined Honours students can choose from one of the seven languages we offer at Exeter.
All languages are available at beginners level.
French, German, Italian, Russian and Spanish can be studied at advanced level.
In addition, there is also the possibility to take modules in an extra language through the Language Centre.
You will be assessed in a variety of ways, but primarily through exams and coursework.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/languages/literature:
BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures - 2026 entry
with Employment Experience (UK)
Top 20 in UK subject rankings for Modern Languages
Comparative Literatures and Cultures at Exeter is unique for its breadth, introducing you to literature, film and art from around the world, from the ancient to the contemporary.
You will be taught by world-leading scholars with expertise in literature and culture from the Middle East, Europe, the Americas, Africa, and Asia.
You will develop the key intercultural understanding and communication skills necessary to be a global citizen.
This programme will prepare you for a range of careers around the world.
It includes a compulsory element of either an employability module (e.g.
Humanities in the Workplace) or a module preparing you for MA study.
You have the option to study abroad and to study a language from one of the 14 on offer across the Faculty, from British Sign Language to Syriac, from Spanish to Mandarin.
Stage 1: 30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional module
30 credits of a language from across LCVS (including the Language Centre) and IAIS can be taken as modularity, subject to pre-requisites.
90 credits of optional modules from a selection from Languages, Cultures and Visual Studies, Classics, the Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies and Humanities.
These modules are subject to change each year due to availability.
Examples from 23/24 include the below.
Other literature and culture modules from across the Department of Languages, Cultures and Visual Studies can be taken subject to pre-requisites.
Stage 2: 30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional modules
Alongside the compulsory SML2001 Migrating Texts, students should choose at least one of HUM2001 or SML2003.
30 credits of a language from across LCVS, Classics and IAIS can be taken as modularity, subject to pre-requisites.
75–90 credits of optional modules from a selection from Languages, Cultures and Visual Studies, Classics, the Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies, English and Humanities.
120 credits in compulsory module HAS3999.
120 credits in compulsory module HUM3997.
120 credits in compulsory module HUM3998.
Stage 3: 30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules
90 credits of optional modules from a selection from Languages, Cultures and Visual Studies, Classics, the Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies, English and Humanities.
From English, you can take EAS3195 or up to 30 credits of other selected English modules.
BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: Q201
BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures with Employment Experience (UK)
UCAS code: Q202
For your ‘Year In Industry’ you will pay a significantly reduced tuition fee to Exeter.
BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures with International Placement
UCAS code: Q203
Our four-year “with International Placement” degree, offers you the possibility of spending your third year abroad, either working or studying abroad.
You will need to confirm how you intend to spend your International Placement during the first semester of the second year.
We will help you in the process.
During your first year you will be invited to an introductory presentation about your International Placement options.
In your second year, there is an extensive orientation programme to help you prepare for your International Placement.
Studying abroad offers a range of possibilities, with over 40 different partner universities worldwide available to Modern Languages students.
This can provide you with the opportunity to experience a different academic environment with local and other international students, broadening your knowledge of the language and culture you study.
Please note that Study Abroad placements at partner universities are subject to availability and are not guaranteed.
The allocation of these places is competitive and based on first-year marks.
Internships are very rewarding in that they can offer you valuable workplace experience.
Placements can be sourced via our Employability and Placements webpages, but you can also source your own internship externally, though it must be approved by the Employability and Placements team.
Some of our students have spent their international placement working in translation, tourism, marketing, fashion, commerce, journalism, heritage and many other sectors.
Becoming an English Language Assistant with the British Council is a brilliant opportunity to explore both the world of working and, more specifically, the idea of working as a teacher.
An academic year is spent supporting teachers in a primary or secondary school in the country of the language you are studying.
Please note that these assistantships are organised by the British Council and placements are subject to their criteria and availability.
Yes - the International Placement is an assessed year and the marks obtained count towards your final degree classification.
If you begin a language in your first year at Exeter and intend to take that language in your final year, you must do your International Placement in that language.
If you are a beginner and decide not to do an International Placement, you will be moved to the three-year BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures programme.
For your International Placement you will pay a significantly reduced tuition fee to Exeter – for more information visit our fees pages .
You may apply directly to the four-year BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures with International Placement programme via UCAS – these students will be given priority of available study abroad placements.
Alternatively, you may apply to the three-year BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and are able to request to apply to change onto the four-year programme once you are at Exeter, subject to meeting eligibility criteria.
Please note that study abroad placements at partner universities are subject to availability and are not guaranteed on either option.
The allocation of study abroad places is competitive based on your first-year average grade along with your successful completion of Years 1 and 2.
Once at Exeter, if students cannot go or are unwilling to go on their International Placement year, they can apply to move to either the three-year BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures or the three-year BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and Global Cultural Studies programme, dependent on their language level by the final year.
This would need to be approved by the department.
The nature of learning at university involves considerable self-guided study and research.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures and discussion-based seminars.
We also support the development of team-based learning by organising students into study groups, and we make full use of both traditional learning resources and our virtual learning environment.
Lecturers and tutors are all available to provide further support in one-to-one consultations.
Most of your work will be done in group and self-directed study: reading or viewing module material, writing essays or preparing for your seminars.
Active participation in seminars develops important transferable skills such as good verbal and visual communication and effective interaction with other people.
You will also develop a range of professional abilities, such as time management and team working, plus valuable critical, analytical and communication skills.
We are actively engaged in introducing new methods of learning and teaching, including the increasing use of interactive computer-based approaches to learning.
Through our virtual learning environment, you can access detailed information about modules, and interact through activities such as discussion forums.
You will also have access to online subscription databases and websites, such as Early English Books Online (EEBO), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), MLA FirstSearch and JSTOR.
You will be assessed by coursework, which will take a variety of forms, from traditional essays to reflective portfolios, videos and research projects.
The range of assessments is designed to develop skills including communication, critical thinking and creativity.
Some assessment will involve group work to strengthen your ability to work in a team.
If you choose to take modules beyond the programme through modularity, these may be assessed by exams as well as coursework.
We provide an exciting range of special lectures and seminars by visiting academics and cultural practitioners.
In addition to your academic work, student-run cultural societies (e.g.
Literary Society, French Society) organise book and poetry readings, film screenings and social events, providing an opportunity to meet students who share a love of literature, culture and the arts.
Students from the Languages, Cultures and Visual Studies department are active in the University student newspapers, radio and TV station.
The department also has strong links with Exeter UNESCO City of Literature, the Phoenix arts centre, the Royal Albert Memorial Museum and other local cultural organisations.
This programme will equip you with a comprehensive understanding and skillset for a range of careers across a multitude of industries.
In particular: intercultural understanding and communication skills, which are at the heart of this programme, are increasingly required by employers in a globalized world.
The course includes a compulsory element of either an employability module (e.g.
Humanities in the Workplace; Making a Career in Publishing) or a module preparing students for further study.
Digital literacy and translation literacy are embedded throughout the course.
Example destinations for our students include:
This course is also excellent preparation for postgraduate study in areas such as:
View all Modern Languages and Cultures courses Film & Television Studies BA

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/languages/literatures-languages:
BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA Comparative Literatures and Cultures and Modern Languages (3 years)
Choose our 4 year course to spend a year abroad, studying at a partner university or in employment
You may choose one language to study alongside Latin.
When completing your UCAS form you must indicate the language you want to study with us under ‘further details’ in the ‘choices’ section of the application form, using the below abbreviations.
Each year, you will study 30 credits of a compulsory language module, 30 credits of optional modules developing your knowledge and understanding of the country/countries where your chosen language is spoken, and 60 credits of Comparative Literatures and Cultures modules.
The Modern Languages side of the programme offers the choice of one of seven major languages (Chinese, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian or Spanish), taught by experienced language specialists including native speakers and academic staff at the cutting edge of research in their particular discipline.
Progression through the programme will combine the acquisition of language with the study of the literature, culture, film, history and/or linguistics of the language disciplines as well as advanced translation practice.
You will develop a high level of proficiency in reading, writing, understanding and speaking your selected language.
You also have the option to spend your third year studying or working abroad in a country where you can develop your chosen language.
Students studying beginners languages must take the 4-year “with International Placement” course.
Stage 1: 60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules
30 credits of compulsory Comparative Literatures and Cultures modules, 30 credits of compulsory language module.
[Note a] select one compulsory language module for 30 credits.
Please select 30 credits of optional modules related to your chosen language, and 30 credits of Comparative Literatures and Cultures options.
Your chosen CLC options should not be related to your chosen language.
Stage 2: 60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules
Note b - select one compulsory 30-credit language module
Optional modules are subject to change each year based on staff availability.
International Placement year (if taken)
c You must take one of these modules.
Stage 3: 30 credits of compulsory Dissertation, 30 credits of compulsory language
Note C - You must select 30 credits in your chosen language modules, 60 credits of optional modules
You will have access to our Language Lab for private study, and can benefit from the Peer Assisted Learning scheme.
You will also have access to online subscription databases and websites, such as Early English Books Online (EEBO), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO), MLA FirstSearch and JSTOR

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/medicalsci/biomedical:
BSc Biomedical Sciences - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABC IB: 28/554 BTEC: DMM
With Professional Placement
Biomedical Sciences begins in 2025/26, replacing our long-established Medical Sciences degree.
It will retain all the high-quality core teaching values of the former programme but will adapt some of the modules to simplify course pathways and allow more flexibility for students.
Top 20 in the UK for Biomedical Sciences
15th in the Complete University Guide 2026
State-of-the-art laboratories and specialised facilities
Hands-on practical laboratory work forms an essential part of the course
Spend a year studying abroad or on a professional placement
*GCE A level/AS science includes: Biology/Human Biology^; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths^; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics; IB Higher Level Sport Science.
^If more than one of these is taken they would only count as one ‘science’.
The interdisciplinary nature of the BSc Biomedical Sciences course at Exeter means that you will explore a range of areas such as biochemistry, genetics, cell biology, physiology, immunology and infection, neuroscience and diabetes.
In the first year, you’ll gain a wide-ranging insight into how the human body normally works.
We study this through small-group sessions, lectures and hands-on laboratory practicals.
As the course progresses, we build upon this foundation to see how things can go wrong in the body due to disease and trauma and how normal function might be restored.
We are keen that you develop a holistic understanding of human health.
You will then specialise in the area that interests you most, tailoring your degree to match your specific career ambitions.
Stage 2: 45 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits taken from a set of constrained optional modules (see notes below) and 15 credits from the list of options.
You are required to take a minimum of 30 credits of Bioscience modules across your second and final years of study.
At least one module (15 credits) must be taken in Stage 2 as a prerequisite to be eligible for final year Biosciences modules.
a You must select either CSC2035 Immunology of Infectious Diseases or BIO2101 Advanced Microbiology b You must select either CSC2026 The Biology of Cancer or BIO2088 Advanced Cell Biology c You must select either CSC2004 Medical Genetics or BIO2089 Molecular Biology of the Gene d You must select either CSC2027 Experimental Pharmacology or BIO2090 Analytical Techniques in Biochemistry
Placement/study abroad year (if taken)
Find out more about placement and study abroad options under Course variants .
Stage 3: 120-credit professional placement module
Stage 3: 120-credit study-abroad module
Stage 3: 15 credits of compulsory modules, 45 constrained optional modules (see note below) and 60 credits of optional modules.
a You must select either Research Project in Biomedical Sciences or Capstone Project
BSc Biomedical Sciences with Professional Placement
UCAS code: B112
The ‘with professional placement’ degree course accommodates an industrial placement year during the third year of your degree, making a four-year degree overall.
You’ll spend a year working on a research project in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical sectors, gaining valuable experience, improving personal and transferable skills, making new contacts and enhancing your employability.
We have established collaborations with local, national and multinational companies, and have successfully placed students within multinational organisations.
Previous placement destinations include:
During your placement you are paid by the company and take two modules: Learning from Industrial Experience and Industrial Placement and Report.
You will have regular contact with an academic supervisor in addition to an industrial supervisor at the company.
It is your responsibility to decide which placements will be suitable for you financially.
We present ideas of paid placements and those that have a stipend and/or accommodation.
If you spend a full year on a work placement (in the UK or abroad) you will pay a reduced fee.
Find out more information .
You can apply to BSc Biomedical Sciences with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
Once at Exeter, progression to the Industrial Experience year is dependent upon successful completion of your Year 1 studies, with an average mark of at least 60%.
The placements are sought during the second year of study and commence the following October.
You are responsible for applying for positions, with direct guidance from the Industrial Placements Co-ordinator.
BSc Biomedical Sciences with Study Abroad
Students who have studied abroad demonstrate initiative, independence, motivation and, depending on where they stay, may also have gained a working knowledge of another language – all qualities employers are looking for.
If you choose to take the four-year ‘with Study Abroad’ degree, you have the option to spend your third year abroad, studying in a university with which we have established links.
We have over 30 partner institutions around the globe; you can find a complete list of International Exchange partner universities on the Study Abroad website.
All of our study abroad partners offer approved training in relevant subjects and also include new opportunities (e.g.
palaeontology), programmes with specialisms (e.g.
natural sciences) and courses with local expertise (e.g.
shark biology).
Students are also encouraged to choose subjects outside science for a (programme-specific) fraction of each term.
Scuba diving, comparative theology, photography and astronomy are a few recent choices by Exeter students.
If you spend a full academic year studying abroad you will pay a reduced fee.
Apply via UCAS for BSc Biomedical Sciences (B111), and you can transfer onto the four-year programme with Study Abroad once you are at Exeter.
Progression to the Study Abroad year is dependent upon successful completion of your Year 1 studies, with an average mark of at least 60%.
For further information on where you can go and all the issues surrounding study abroad, see the Study Abroad website .
UK students: £9,535 per year International students: £30,900 per year
If, as part of your four-year, full-time degree programme, you spend a full academic year studying abroad, you will pay a reduced fee of 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
If you spend a full year on a work placement (in the UK or abroad) you will pay a reduced fee of 20 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
Throughout the programme, you'll benefit from a careful blend of innovative and traditional teaching methods employed by both the Medical School and the Biosciences department.
A variety of stimulating, cutting-edge resources are also available to support your learning.
In tutor-led groups of 8-12 students you will investigate key scientific concepts and systems presented in the form of triggers.
The style of trigger varies week by week but will include patient-based clinical case studies, current media-worthy medical science breakthroughs and extracts from research papers.
You’ll be supported in your exploration of the human biomedical science that is presented in your small group sessions by the rich variety of state-of-the-art resources available in the Life Sciences Resource Centre.
These resources include anatomical models, multimedia and IT resources, and a well-stocked library.
Tutor-led activities will drive your engagement with selected resources in order to increase your understanding of the small group triggers.
Large group lectures and cutting-edge research seminars delivered by academics as well as external speakers will complement your studies.
Lectures may contain students from a variety of different programmes for which the lecture content is relevant.
You will develop your laboratory skills in the biosciences teaching laboratory on the Streatham Campus and the new teaching lab at the St Luke’s Campus, which are equipped with instruments for observational, experimental and numerical aspects of biosciences including a range of biochemical, molecular, physiological and electronic apparatus.
Your learning will be supported by the University’s virtual learning environment.
You will have individual access to electronic journals, content-rich study guides, and interactive online learning materials covering various science disciplines, formative online assessments and group discussion forums.
Regular assessment is used to help provide you with frequent feedback, enabling you to identify your strengths, as well as areas for improvement.
Feedback is provided in a number of different ways including online written feedback and self, peer, tutor or small group feedback.
Assessment formats include multiple-choice tests, essays, structured practical exams, reflective essays, oral and poster presentations, scientific report writing, short-answer question tests and independent project work.
BSc Biomedical Sciences has been developed in consultation with industry employers, the NHS and academia and provides a firm foundation in biomedical science, alongside an insight into medical practice and the biotechnologies used to prevent, test and diagnose disorders and treat patients.
You’ll develop an integrated, scientific knowledge that you can put into practice in a clinical setting and robust research skills, plus creative and inquisitive communication, leadership, critical appraisal and problem-solving skills.
These key skills will prepare you for a career helping to progress scientific discovery into clinical and medical practice, ultimately to improve human health.
Future career pathways include:
View all Biomedical and Medical Sciences courses View all Biosciences courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/animal:
BSc Animal Behaviour - 2026 entry
Prof.
Placement/Study Abroad: A-Level: ABC IB: 30/555 BTEC: DDM
4th in the world for Ecology
Shanghai Rankings Global Ranking of Academic Subjects 2024
Top 20 in the UK for world-leading research in Biological Sciences
Opportunities to undertake study abroad or a year’s placement in business or industry
I think my favourite thing about the course so far has been the field trip to Costa Rica*.
It was the trip of a lifetime and I'll remember it forever!
We travelled all around the country and learnt so much about their biodiversity.
We have studied lots of different topics on the course.
It's been really wide-ranging, and I've loved the lectures for all the modules.
My lecturers are really knowledgeable and helpful.
I feel like I've learnt a lot from the course, everything from molecular ecology to the biology of birds.
It all leads into your final year where you have studied so many topics that you have a solid idea of what your interests are.
*Field course destinations are subject to change.
Read more from Jordan
Jordan
MSci Animal Behaviour
*Accepted science subjects: Biology/Human Biology, Chemistry, Food and Nutrition, Geography, Life and Health Sciences (Double Award only), Marine Science, Physics, Psychology or Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths
The programme highlights the value of studying animals in their natural habitats, utilising the expertise of staff members who run long-term studies of iconic species in the wild.
This approach is underpinned by field courses in the second and third years.
Throughout this programme you will be exposed to a wide range of theoretical and practical techniques used to study animal behaviour.
We will provide you with the skills, concepts and experience to understand all aspects of animal behaviour.
The programme covers the evolution and adaptive function of behaviour in the wild, its physiological and neuronal control, and how animals develop socially and cognitively through experience.
Gain broad experience of zoology, ecology, and evolutionary biology while learning about the main concepts underlying the scientific study of animal behaviour.
Study the major milestones in behaviour research and explore current topics of outstanding interest.
In practical classes, learn how to collect data on behaviour and to analyse and interpret results in a rigorous scientific manner.
30 credits of optional modules or you may take elective modules up to 30 credits outside of the programme, as long as any necessary prerequisites have been satisfied, where the timetable allows and if you have not already taken the module in question or an equivalent module.
Discover how behaviour is influenced by genes and the environment in which an animal develops, and how behaviour is regulated by hormones and neuronal mechanisms.
Learn evolutionary approaches to the study of behaviour, with a focus on how natural selection shapes the behaviour and life histories of animals in their natural environment.
Experience a residential field course to gain an understanding of habitats and biodiversity.
a It is compulsory to take a field course in the second year and you will be allocated based on degree and/or preference.
If you are unable to go on a field course, you will be required to take BIO2450 Biosciences Penryn Virtual Field Course instead.
BIO2450 is only available if you are not going on the field course.
120 credits of compulsory modules.
For your year abroad you will agree a suite of modules in your host institution with the Department's Study Abroad Coordinator.
Details of individual modules that may be taken whilst abroad can be found by accessing the partner institution’s website via http://www.exeter.ac.uk/studyabroad/outbound/research/where/ .
Undertake a research project with a member of academic staff.
Tailor your degree to your interests, gaining expertise in your chosen area.
You will also take a residential field course to gain practical experience of research in the wild.
b It is compulsory to take a field course in the final year and you will be allocated based on degree and/or preference.
If you do not attend a residential field course, you will be required to take BIO3440 Global Research Skills virtual field-course plus either BIO3407 Literature Review in Evolution and Ecology or another 15 credit module.
BSc Animal Behaviour with Professional Placement
UCAS code: D394
During your placement year you will gain valuable experience, apply the skills learnt during the first and second years, improve personal and transferable skills, make new contacts and enhance your employability.
Work placements allow you to develop your career focus and are extremely valued by employers.
On this four-year variant of the BSc Animal Behaviour degree you will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree.
We have established collaborations with local, national and international organisations that you can consider when applying for placement positions.
Your module convenor provides support while you are researching and applying for positions and you are encouraged to consider a range of organisations, including consultancies, charities, NGOs, research institutes and universities.
During your placement you will have regular contact with the module convenor to identify what support you might need.
The professional placement year counts towards your degree through the completion of your placement and associated coursework.
It contributes to your final degree classification, and the words ‘with Professional Placement’ will appear in your degree title.
You can apply to BSc Animal Behaviour with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
You must achieve an average mark of at least 60% in Year 1 to progress to the Professional Placement year.
You are responsible for organising your own placement; however, we have established collaborations with local, national and international organisations that you can consider when applying for placement positions and we provide you with help and support with your applications.
BSc Animal Behaviour with Study Abroad
UCAS code: D392
We have over 30 partner institutions around the globe; you can find a complete list of International Exchange partner universities on the Study Abroad website .
If you are not sure about studying abroad when you apply for your degree, it may be possible to apply to transfer to a four-year programme at the end of the first year of a three-year programme.
Permission to take part in Study Abroad in all cases will depend on your academic progress and the places available in your chosen country.
You can apply to BSc Animal Behaviour with Study Abroad directly through UCAS using the code above.
Once at Exeter, progression to the Study Abroad year is dependent upon successful completion of your Year 1 studies, with an average mark of at least 60%.
See our study abroad information on the Biosciences pages for information about your tuition fees and additional information from some of our students who have studied abroad during their Biosciences degrees.
If, as part of your four-year degree programme, you spend a full academic year studying abroad you will pay a reduced fee of 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
Please note, some optional/alternative field courses may incur additional costs.
When participating in these optional field courses, you will be expected to cover the cost of travel to some locations, which will be outlined clearly beforehand.
However, field courses with no additional travel costs are available to select in each year.
You will also need to provide your own specialist personal equipment appropriate to the field course destination, e.g.
walking boots, rucksack, mosquito net, sleeping bag, binoculars.
You may incur additional costs dependent upon the specific demands of the research project chosen.
We pride ourselves on offering an extensive range of field courses across our Ecology and Conservation degrees with exciting local, national and international destinations.
These field courses not only allow you to apply the knowledge gained in the classroom to real-world situations in superb locations, but also provide a fantastic opportunity to forge lasting relationships with fellow students and academics.
The residential field courses are an opportunity to apply your field skills first-hand in environments studied by our world-leading ecological researchers.
They are designed to complement your degree and highlight conservation issues at the forefront of the subject for terrestrial and marine species and habitats.
» Read more about our field courses
Please note, whilst a compulsory field course is included in the tuition fee, some optional/alternative field courses may incur additional costs.
Field course destinations are subject to change.
We believe that every student benefits from being part of a culture that is inspired by research and being taught by experts.
You will discuss the very latest ideas in seminars and tutorials and be an active member of a research team.
Our academics bring their results from the laboratory and the field directly to their teaching, and our students also help to collect this data.
We have very close links with a wide range of conservation organisations in the UK and overseas, such as the British Trust for Ornithology, Cornwall Wildlife Trust and Marine Conservation Society.
These links mean you will benefit from frequent guest lectures, placement opportunities and project work.
Your first year does not count towards your final degree classification, but you do have to pass it in order to progress.
All marks after your first year count towards your final classification.
Modules are assessed using a variety of methods including essays, exams, presentations, laboratory reports and a dissertation.
Our facilities include:
A degree from the Centre for Ecology and Conservation will help you to develop a wide range of essential transferable skills such as analytical problem-solving, teamwork and organising and communicating information.
Many of our students continue their studies in the subject by following a further degree and research in their chosen area.
Each year our students are able to access a huge range of opportunities to support their future career options.
Sector-related careers and employability sessions are put on for students during their studies, which include:
The University of Exeter has an excellent reputation with graduate recruiters and our students and graduates compete very successfully in the employment market.
Whatever path you wish to follow, we’re here to help and support you with all your career and employability needs.
Many of our graduates are employed in discipline-relevant roles in the UK and overseas including laboratory-based positions, research, conservation management, ecology, teaching and nursing.
Others use the skills gained on their course to enter widely different career paths in law, business or management.
Whatever you choose to do after graduation, your degree will stand you in good stead, with excellent employment prospects and transferable skills.
Below are a few examples of initial jobs undertaken by graduates from undergraduate programmes offered by the Centre for Ecology and Conservation*.
Further study is a popular choice for a number of students following graduation from an Ecology and Conservation undergraduate degree.
Below are a few examples of further study undertaken by recent graduates of undergraduate programmes*.
*This information has been taken from Graduate Outcomes surveys.
The Ecology and Conservation staff at the Penryn Campus are extremely helpful and always willing to go above and beyond to make sure we have the correct support.
Generally any issues we have can be sorted and the lecturers care about (and can recognise) every individual student.
I feel honoured to have studied under such leading scientists.
Ecology and Conservation undergraduate student, Penryn Campus
View all Ecology and Conservation courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/animalmsci:
MSci Animal Behaviour - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABC IB: 30/555 BTEC: DDM
90% of our Biological Sciences research is internationally excellent
Based on research rated 4* and 3* in the Research Excellence Framework 2021
The four-year MSci Animal Behaviour programme mirrors the BSc Animal Behaviour programme during the first three years, but also includes an additional fourth year during which you will undertake a research project, an advanced statistical modelling module and a literature review.
The research project will focus on a specialised area aligned with one of our leading research groups.
The remainder of your time will be spent on a two-week intensive field course in which your scientific field-research, debating, and presentation skills will be further developed.
60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules
Depending on your programme you can take up to 30 credits each year in another subject, for instance a language or business module, to develop career-related skills or widen your intellectual horizons.
You can boost your employability by using up to 30 credits each year to study a foreign language.
If you study the language for more than one year you may be entitled to have ‘with proficiency in’ added to your degree certificate.
The Foreign Language Centre will be offering modules in French and Spanish language from complete beginners up to advanced levels, plus German and Mandarin Chinese from beginner’s level.
If you achieve at least 60 credits in a language via our Foreign Language Centre you may be able to have the words ‘with proficiency in’ and the language added to your degree title.
Further details can be found on the Foreign Language Centre web pages .
Students on this course are now able to add ‘with proficiency in Law’ to their degree title, by gaining a strand of additional legal knowledge and skills that adds value to their degree.
The ‘With proficiency in Law’ modules being offered to non-law students provide a theoretical and technical basis for understanding the regulatory and legal frameworks that you might encounter within your main field of study.
These modules lend themselves strongly to students wishing to develop their skillset to work across the environment and sustainability sector and in wider business.
If you accrue at least 60 credits in elective law modules you will have ‘with proficiency in Law’ added to your degree title.
A degree in Ecology and Conservation will help you to develop a wide range of essential skills such as analytical problem-solving, teamwork and organising and communicating information.
Each year Ecology and Conservation students are able to access a huge range of opportunities to support their future career options.
Sector-related careers and employability sessions are put on for students during their studies which include:
Many of our graduates are employed in discipline-relevant roles in the UK and overseas including laboratory-based positions, conservation management, ecology, teaching and nursing.
Whatever you choose to do after graduation, your Ecology and Conservation degree will stand you in good stead, with excellent employment prospects and transferable skills.
Below are a few examples of initial jobs undertaken by graduates from our Ecology and Conservation undergraduate programmes*.
*This information has been taken from aggregating the responses from full-time, first degree, UK domiciled students who completed 2017/18 and 2018/19 Graduate Outcomes surveys.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biosciences/biochem:
BSc Biochemistry - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB - ABB IB: 34/665 - 32/655 BTEC: DDD - DDM
A-Level: BBB - BBC IB: 30/555 - 28/554 BTEC: DDM - DMM
Industrial Exp./Study Abroad: A-Level: AAC IB: 32/655 BTEC: DDM
A-Level: AAA IB: 36/666 BTEC: DDD
Biosciences:  In five out of seven themes (National Student Survey 2023)
The degree programme in Biochemistry focuses on understanding the biochemical control of biological processes, particularly in the cell, and the tools for investigating these mechanisms.
After a broad first year, this degree focuses on cellular biochemistry providing specialist modules aimed at understanding key topics at the frontiers of cell biology.
As you progress through years two and three, a wide choice of biochemistry module options is available.
This programme is also available as a four-year degree with the third year spent studying at a partner university abroad, or on an industrial placement - see Course variants for more information.
Gives a firm foundation for your degree with modules in biochemistry, cell biology, genetics, microbiology, organic and inorganic chemistry.
Options available in physical chemistry and plant biology.
In addition to biochemistry, organic chemistry and cell biology, you will choose three optional modules in subjects ranging from biological chemistry through medical and general microbiology to evolutionary biology.
Industrial experience/Study abroad year (if taken)
For your year abroad you will agree a suite of modules in your host institution with the College Study Abroad Coordinator.
Put your analytical and experimental skills to use through a research project around the core topics of Horizons in Biochemical Research and Energy Metabolism.
Optional modules cover biochemistry, molecular cell biology and biological chemistry.
BSc Biochemistry with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: C737
The ‘with industrial experience’ degree programme accommodates an industrial placement year during the third year of the degree, making a four year degree overall.
During your year in industry you are paid by the company and take two modules: Learning from Industrial Experience and Industrial Placement and Report.
You can apply to BSc Biochemistry with Industrial Experience directly through UCAS using the code above.
BSc Biochemistry with Study Abroad
UCAS code: C732
If you choose to take the four year ‘with Study Abroad’ degree, you have the option to spend your third year abroad, studying in a university with which we have established links.
You can apply to BSc Biochemistry with Study Abroad directly through UCAS using the code above.
Information about applying can be found on the Study Abroad website .
See our study abroad information on the Biosciences Current Students page for information about your tuition fees and additional information from some of our students who have studied abroad during their Biosciences degrees.
Over the course of your degree, you will participate in a mix of larger lectures to smaller, focused sessions based around the latest research topics.
In the teaching laboratory you will develop the necessary skills to become a professional biologist; you will then put these to use while undertaking your independent research project.
We encourage students to publish their results in the scientific literature and make a real contribution to the fields of Biosciences.
We frequently introduce new methods of learning and teaching, including increasing use of interactive computer-based approaches to learning through our virtual learning environment, where the details of all modules are stored in an easily navigable website.
You can access detailed information about modules and learning outcomes and interact through activities such as the discussion forums.
We believe every student benefits from being part of a research-led culture and being taught by experts.
The complementary expertise of our staff ensures a vibrant, collaborative research culture within our research groups, made up of researchers at all stages, from Masters to Post-doctoral scientists.
Our staff have close links with a wide range of industrial, medical and conservation organisations, with whom there may be the chance to collaborate for your final year research project.
Many of our students work with these organisations during their vacations and others build experience through one of our four-year programmes with industrial experience.
As well as more than 15 hours per week of direct contact time with your lecturers, all students have a personal tutor who is available for advice and support throughout your studies.
Over the course of your degree programme, you will have access to our multi-million pound teaching, learning and research facilities, including our:
A degree in Biochemistry will help you to develop a wide range of essential skills such as analytical problem solving, team work and organising and communicating information.
Whatever you choose to do after graduation, your Biosciences degree will stand you in good stead, with excellent employment prospects and transferable skills.
Each year Biosciences students are able to access a huge range of opportunities to support their future career options.
Sector related careers and employability sessions are put on for the students over the course of their programme which include: career talks and networking events with visiting alumni and employers from a range of backgrounds, employability seminar series events hosted by employers, ‘Dragons Den’ style assessment days, mock interviews and an annual Careers Fair where students can develop networking skills.
Many of our graduates are employed in discipline relevant roles in the UK and overseas including laboratory-based positions, conservation management, ecology, teaching and nursing.
Below are a few examples of initial jobs undertaken by graduates from our Biosciences undergraduate programmes*.
Further study is a popular choice for a number of students following graduation from a Biosciences undergraduate degree.
MPH/MRes/PhD Biological Sciences
View all Biosciences courses View Natural Sciences courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biosciences/biochemmsci:
MSci Biochemistry - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAC IB: 32/655 BTEC: DDM
State-of-the-art teaching laboratory for observational, experimental and numerical aspects of biosciences
The four-year MSci Biochemistry programme mirrors the BSc Biochemistry programme during the first three years, but also includes an additional fourth year during which you will undertake a research project.
This will focus on a specialised area aligned with one of our leading research groups.
You will also undertake advanced modules in your final year.
As you progress through years two and three, a wide choice of biochemistry module options are available.
In your fourth year you will undertake a research project focused on a specialised area aligned to one of our leading research groups.
You will also undertake advanced modules in this final year.
105 credits of compulsory modules, 15 credits of optional modules
You will have the opportunity to undertake challenging independent research projects dealing with questions and issues.
Regular research seminars, by our staff and visiting lecturers, bring you the latest issues on a wide range of research topics.
Over the course of your degree, you will participate in a mix of larger lectures to smaller, focused sessions.
In the teaching laboratory you will develop the necessary skills to become a professional biologist.
There are also a number of services on campus where you can get advice and information, including the Students’ Guild Advice Unit .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biosciences/biosci:
BSc Biological Sciences - 2026 entry
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 725818
Placement/Study Abroad: A-Level: AAC IB: 32/655 BTEC: DDM
*Accepted science subjects: Biology/Human Biology^; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Electronics; Economics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences (Double Award only), Marine Science; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths^; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Sport Science; Statistics.
^If more than one of these is taken they would only count as one 'science' but could count as two A-levels towards our general requirements.
The lecturers are a great support throughout the course.
They are always quick to reply to emails and happy to chat and talk further about topics of interest.
You can tell they want the very best from us and want us to be inspired to take their research further.
I had always heard such good things about the University of Exeter and when I came to the Open Day, it did not disappoint!
I loved the campus; it had such a great feel to it and promoted the biological sciences department really well with welcoming current students to answer any questions.
The sports opportunities are also amazing!
There is a great community vibe on my programme, on campus and throughout the sport I do.
You get to know people really well and receive lots of help from the lecturers.
The university as a whole is a very supportive and proud community.
There are always so many opportunities to get involved in extracurricular activities, including intramural sport, supporting big games and attending large events.
I love how you can walk everywhere in Exeter and student housing is close by.
The town is ten minutes away and it makes you feel like you know the whole city inside out, and will almost always bump into someone you know.
It's a lovely area with lots of greens space, and we're close to the coast and to the moorland, so have a great mix of everything.
The time has gone so fast and I've had so many opportunities throughout my time in Exeter.
I'm applying and doing things I would never have thought of when I first started university, showing how much my course and the whole experience really benefits you.
Read more from Emily
Emily
BSc Biological Sciences
This is a flexible degree programme, giving you the option to design either a broad-based biology degree or a more focused degree specialising in areas of biology which interest you.
You will have the opportunity to follow one of three specialisms – animal biology, microbiology and infectious disease or molecular and cellular biology – and graduate with your chosen specialism named as part of your degree title, eg, BSc Biological Sciences (Animal Biology).
After a foundation first year, which covers the range of biology from molecules to ecosystems, you have complete freedom of module choice in your second and final years.
Options range from forensic science to the ecology of environmental change; from mammalian biology to microbiology; from human molecular biology to a coral reef field course.
Shape your degree as you wish – following one of the named specialisms outlined below, or in other areas, whilst keeping your biological choices broad.
You will be introduced to modern techniques associated with biology research and their application within a range of fields from biotechnology industries to biodiversity and conservation.
Modules cover animals, cells, biochemistry, ecology, genetics, microbiology and plants.
There is only one compulsory module in the second year (Research Skills and Bioethics) and this forms a foundation for the work of the final year research project.
Optional modules span a wide range of biology, including field courses in the UK and abroad*, and subjects including medical and general microbiology, forensic science, human and molecular biology.
*Field course destinations are subject to change
15 credits of compulsory modules, 105 credits of optional modules
Find out more about placement and study abroad options under Course variants
In the final year, you have the opportunity to focus on an area of biology that particularly interests you.
During the first two terms you undertake an independent research project.
This may be field-based and/or laboratory-based and is centred on the research work of members of staff.
Specialisms
During your degree you can, if you wish, choose to specialise in one of three named specialisms:
To qualify for one of the named specialisms you must study sufficient relevant specialist modules from within the core programme.
You need to study at least 90 credits, spread across your second year and final year, from the selection of specialist modules below, including at least 60 credits from non-project/dissertation modules.
You will receive advice about the specialisms once you’re at Exeter so you don’t need to make any decisions in advance.
Please refer to the Year 2 and Final year dropdowns above for full module details.
*For credits from your Independent Research Project/Dissertation to count towards the specialism, your focus of study in this module must be in the field of animal biology .
*For credits from your Independent Research Project/Dissertation to count towards the specialism, your focus of study in this module must be in the field of microbiology and infectious disease .
*For credits from your Independent Research Project/Dissertation to count towards the specialism, your focus of study in this module must be in the field of molecular and cellular biology .
The field trip to San Salvador in The Bahamas was a truly memorable experience*.
Snorkelling alongside an incredible diversity of marine life including rare corals, green turtles, nudibranchs, and fish was a once in a life time opportunity.
The best thing about the biosciences programme is that it is extremely flexible.
You can choose from a broad range of modules, allowing you to specialise in those you find most interesting and relevant to your future plans.
Undertaking my final year research project was one of the most enjoyable parts of my degree.
I gained essential experience in biological techniques in a world-class laboratory, all whilst working alongside researchers at the top of their field.
My Professional Placement was with the Whitley Wildlife Conservation Trust at Paignton Zoo, where I worked as an Ecology Research Intern.
My main role was carrying out my own independent research project, looking at the effects of street lighting on woodland bats.
Alongside my project, I gained some valuable skills in ecological monitoring, surveying the spatial ecology of badgers and the diversity of butterflies.
I also observed the social behaviour of hamadryas baboons...
and even the behaviour of a western grey kangaroo who had lost her hop.
We really have the best of both worlds here at on the Streatham campus; both the rolling hills of Dartmoor and beautiful seaside towns are very accessible and make for the perfect day trip.
Exeter is a small city but offers everything you could possibly need.
It’s historic, there are loads of little cafes and shops tucked away, and the Quay is perfect for walks to take your mind off studying.
Read more from Luke
BSc Biological Sciences with Professional Placement
UCAS code: C101
This programme includes a professional placement year between the second and final years, which will enable you to gain valuable experience from working in an appropriate business or industry with services in biological research, analysis or consultancy, in the UK, EU or USA.
As well as increasing your first-hand knowledge, a professional placement will also improve your personal and transferable skills and will help make new contacts and enhance your employability.
We have established collaborations with local, national and multinational organisations.
During your placement year you will take two modules: Learning from Industrial Experience and Industrial Placement and Report.
You will have regular contact with an academic supervisor in addition to a supervisor at the company.
Find out more online .
You can apply to BSc Biological Sciences with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
Once at Exeter, progression to the Professional Placement year is dependent upon successful completion of your Year 1 studies, with an average mark of at least 65%.
The placements are sought during the second year of study and start the following October.
You are responsible for applying for positions, with direct guidance from the Professional Placements Co-ordinator.
BSc Biological Sciences with Study Abroad
UCAS code: C000
Alongside having a great name to put on my CV, I have gained skills in and out of the lab.
This means I have experience to go whichever way I choose post-graduation, be that a PhD with my lab skills through to a marketing graduate scheme with softer skills gained.
In the second year, if you are interested in ecology you can attend one of our optional ecology field courses in the Bahamas.
Run on the beautiful desert island of San Salvador, the field course presents a fantastic opportunity to study ecology in a unique and exciting environment.
The island is surrounded by coral reefs – many in excellent condition – and other associated habitats.
During eight days in the field, you will have the opportunity to snorkel patch reefs, a reef crest, a drop-off, sea-grass beds and mangroves.
The Coral Reef Field Course in the Bahamas was an amazing once-in-a-lifetime experience for me!
Not only did I gain key biological field work skills, but I also made life-long friends and experienced a beautiful part of the world.
My group were lucky enough to have wild dolphins come up to us and play while we were out doing our surveys!
I loved how enthusiastic all of the staff and post-graduate assistants were about their research, and how supportive they were for all of us on our work and survey skills.
Travelling across the world to a new place opened my eyes to new ways of life and strengthened my self-confidence.
I can now apply the field-work skills I gained on this trip to any future career I pursue in biology.
I am so grateful that my degree offers this field course, and I definitely recommend it to any students contemplating signing up for it!
Read more from Maddy
Maddy

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/biosciences/bioscimsci:
MSci Biological Sciences - 2026 entry
*Accepted science subjects: Biology/Human Biology^; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences (Double Award only), Marine Science; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths^; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Sport Science; Statistics.
The four-year MSci Biological Sciences programme mirrors the BSc Biological Sciences programme during the first three years, but also includes an additional fourth year to undertake a research project.
This flexible degree programme, gives you the option to design either a broad-based biology degree or a more focused degree specialising in areas of biology which interest you.
There is the opportunity to follow one of three specialisms – animal biology, microbiology and infectious disease or molecular and cellular biology – and graduate with your chosen specialism named in your degree title, eg, MSci Biological Sciences (Animal Biology).
After a foundation first year, which covers the range of biology from molecules to ecosystems, you have freedom of module choice in second and third year.
Options range from forensic science to the ecology of environmental change; from mammalian biology to medical biotechnology; from human molecular biology to a coral reef field course.
You will take modules that will provide you with the opportunity to focus on an area of biology that particularly interests you.
You will also undertake an independent research project, which may be field-based and/or laboratory-based and is centred on the cutting-edge research of leading bioscientists.
You will undertake a research project focused on a specialised area aligned to one of our leading research groups.
You need to study at least 90 credits, spread across your second year and third year, from the selection of specialist modules below, including at least 60 credits from non-project/dissertation modules.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/conservation:
BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology - 2026 entry
There’s nothing more empowering as a biosciences student than learning the ‘ins and outs’ of a topic area you’re wildly passionate about, taught by someone who’s made it their life’s work.
Your lecturer is more often than not one of the best in their field and on the frontlines of research and brand new science.
Sometimes they show you papers they’re working on that they’re yet to publish, and I feel very honoured to be one of the very few people in the world to hold this knowledge before it gets released to the world.
Read more from Betty
BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology
You’ll gain knowledge and skills that are essential for working conservationists and ecologists, including a grounding in fundamental ecological principles, wildlife identification, and data handling.
Develop a broad knowledge of core biological and ecological principles.
Alongside class-based activities, local field trips led by wildlife specialists are a central aspect of the programme.
Learn about a wide range of organisms, from marine mammals to heathland flowers, and how they interact with their surroundings.
Develop your analytical skills, your understanding of core ecological principles, and begin to specialise your interests in particular ecological disciplines or groups of organisms.
Experience a residential field course to gain an understanding of practical field ecology and habitat and biodiversity survey techniques.
Even greater emphasis on research-led learning in the field and in the lab.
You’ll have the opportunity to use the skills built up over the previous years to undertake your own independent research, supported by a member of staff.
BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology with Professional Placement
UCAS code: C152
On this four-year variant of the BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology degree you will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree.
Find out more.
You can apply to BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: C150
We have over 30 partner institutions around the globe; you can find a complete list of International Exchange partner universities on the Study Abroad website.
You can apply to BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology with Study Abroad directly through UCAS using the code above.
See our study abroad information on the Biosciences page for information about your tuition fees and additional information from some of our students who have studied abroad during their Biosciences degrees.
For further information on where you can go and all the issues surrounding study abroad, see the Study Abroad website.
Our field course was one of the most amazing experiences of my life.
I learnt so much about plastic pollution on this course, which has been extremely helpful when working on my dissertation.
The most rewarding part of this course has been working on my dissertation.
I am conducting a study observing whether wild grey seals are ingesting plastic or not.
This study is the first of its kind and was published in 2019.
Working in the laboratories has been amazing.
The sheer number of specimens they have is mind-blowing and I feel incredibly privileged to have had the opportunity to work with them.
The laboratory staff that helped me with my dissertation have also been very helpful and patient.
Read more from Daisy
Daisy
The experience I have gained during my time at University has secured me a well-paid position as the Environmental Project Co-ordinator for an offshore survey company immediately upon graduation.
The company were impressed by the range of report writing and analytical skills developed at university, along with my experience of coordinating cetacean research.
I look forward to the work environment and only hope the experience can compare to my time in Cornwall!
Read more from Sally
Sally
BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology graduate
View all Ecology and Conservation courses Environmental Science

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/conservationmsci:
MSci Conservation Biology and Ecology - 2026 entry
Graduate with an undergraduate Masters qualification
The four-year MSci Conservation Biology and Ecology programme mirrors the BSc Conservation Biology and Ecology during the first three years, and then includes an additional fourth year during which you will undertake an advanced research project.
You will also undertake a two-week intensive field course in which your scientific field-research, debating, and presentation skills will be further developed.
Provides an opportunity to work on an advanced research project focused on a specialised area aligned with one of our leading research groups.
You will also undertake a two-week intensive field course.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/evobiology:
BSc Evolutionary Biology - 2026 entry
Whilst studying BSc Evolutionary Biology I enjoyed furthering my education on subjects that I'm really passionate about, such as conservation, mammals and evolution.
I also really enjoyed the opportunity to pick which modules I wanted to do in year two and my final year.
Bethany
BSc Evolutionary Biology
*Accepted science subjects: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences (Double Award only); Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths/Statistics; Marine Science; Nutrition and Food Science; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied).
A BSc in Evolutionary Biology will provide you with the knowledge, skills and experience to understand all aspects of modern evolutionary biology, how it is central to understanding how the amazing biodiversity of life on earth has arisen, but also to its preservation, for example by predicting if and how everything from microbes to animals can adapt to unprecedented rates of environmental change.
You will use cutting-edge approaches to develop an advanced understanding of evolutionary biology, that encompasses genetics, animal behaviour, psychology and ecology, and examine evolution from many perspectives – from the smallest building blocks of life to entire ecosystems.
The interface between research and learning is central to the degree programme and equips you for career opportunities across a wide range of scientific disciplines.
As a fast growing area of study, it is led by internationally-recognised, research-active staff in the Centre for Ecology and Conservation on our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
The Centre hosts one of the largest groups of evolutionary biologists in Europe, whose cutting-edge research projects run across the globe.
Develop both practical skills and knowledge of theory in evolutionary biology through lectures, field and laboratory work.
Apply your knowledge to examine the basis for evolutionary change, including consideration of both the ecological and genetic mechanisms driving adaptive evolution, and begin to specialise your interests.
Take a field course to apply what you have learned and to gain a deeper understanding of evolution in the wild.
Specialise in your area of interest, with a focus on research-led learning.
Interact closely with an expert member of academic staff and carry out an in-depth independent research project on evolutionary biology in the wild or the laboratory.
You will also take part in an international field trip to gain practical experience of research in the wild*.
BSc Evolutionary Biology with Professional Placement
UCAS code: C186
On this four-year variant of the BSc Evolutionary Biology degree you will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree.
You can apply to BSc Evolutionary Biology with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
BSc Evolutionary Biology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: C183
We have over 30 partner institutions around the globe; you can find a complete list of International Exchange partner universities on the Study Abroad website .
You can apply to BSc Evolutionary Biology with Study Abroad directly through UCAS using the code above.
The biggest highlight on this programme has been the field course!
Being able to experience the most diverse country in the world with leading researchers gave me a real insight into such a biodiverse ecosystem.
It has really opened my eyes to the potential opportunities that are available with this degree and that makes life after university very exciting.
Sasha
View all Ecology and Conservation courses View all Environmental Sciences courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/evobiologymsci:
MSci Evolutionary Biology - 2026 entry
The four-year MSci Evolutionary Biology programme mirrors the BSc Evolutionary Biology programme during the first three years, and includes an additional fourth year during which you will undertake a research project, an advanced statistical modelling module and a literature review.
Evolutionary Biology is a fast growing area of study, utilising ever-more sophisticated technology to unravel the history of life on earth.
During our MSci Evolutionary Biology you will utilise our cutting-edge facilities to develop advanced knowledge in this rapidly developing field, which encompasses genetics, animal behaviour, and psychology, and examine evolution from many perspectives – from the smallest building blocks of life to entire ecosystems.
Develop both practical skills and knowledge of theory in evolutionary ecology through lectures and laboratory work.
Apply your knowledge to examine the basis for evolutionary change, including consideration of both the ecological and genetic mechanisms driving adaptive evolution.
Take a field course to gain an understanding of evolution in the wild.
Specialise in your area of interest.
Interact closely with an expert member of academic staff and carry out a detailed independent research project on evolutionary biology in the field or a laboratory.
You will also take part in an international field trip*.
Work on a literature review and a research project, both focused on a specialised area.
The remainder of your time will be spent on a two-week intensive field course and an advanced statistical modelling module.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/marinebio:
BSc Marine Biology - 2026 entry
All the lecturers are passionate about their field and this clearly shows through their teaching.
They support their lectures with their own experiences and research, and they are always happy to answer our questions.
It is really enriching to be able to learn from lecturers who are often at the forefront of their field.
University of Exeter at Penryn is a perfect mix of top university standards of teaching and research, and the friendly, chilled atmosphere of a campus away from large cities.
I was especially drawn to it because of its location near the countryside and the sea.
Cornwall has so many beautiful and fascinating environments: an ideal place to study marine biology!
Living in Glasney Student Village, everything I ever need is easily accessible!
There are staff available on campus to help with all the different aspects of university life: career planning, health, living in halls, academic work or even just finding your way around the campus!
Outside of the campus, Falmouth is just a short bus or train ride away.
I have loved exploring the town and its surroundings, including Gylly beach and Pendennis point.
Read more from Jessica
Jessica
BSc Marine Biology
Our BSc Marine Biology programme focuses on understanding the biology of marine organisms and their ecosystems.
We place special emphasis on whole animal biology, biodiversity, ecology and behaviour.
The programme provides you with the skills, concepts, and experience required to understand all aspects of marine ecosystems and the pressures they face, ranging from overexploitation to climate change.
Our interdisciplinary approach to the study of marine ecosystems, from rocky shores to open-oceans and from shallow surface seas to deep-water habitats, allows you to develop a wide range of theoretical and practical techniques.
The interface between research and learning is central to the degree programme and equips our graduates for career opportunities across a wide range of scientific disciplines.
Develop a broad knowledge of the biology of the marine environment alongside core understanding of biological and ecological principles.
Emphasis will be placed on theory underpinned by fieldwork and the development of a suite of techniques appropriate to studying life in the sea.
Make use of the skills and concepts learned in your first year to study marine life with a particular focus on the interaction between organisms and their environments.
Concepts explained in detail in the classroom are brought to life in the field.
a It is compulsory to take a field course in the second year.
Professional placement/study abroad year (if taken)
Work closely with an academic member of staff and carry out a detailed independent research project in the wild or a laboratory.
You may also take a bespoke marine biology residential field course in order to gain practical experience of research in the wild.
BSc Marine Biology with Professional Placement
UCAS code: CF20
On this four-year variant of the BSc Marine Biology degree you will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree.
You can apply to BSc Marine Biology with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
You must achieve an average mark of at least 60% in both Year 1 and 2 to progress to the Professional Placement year.
BSc Marine Biology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: CF19
This depends on the university you attend and the modules that are offered there.
Once a place has been confirmed, students will liaise with both their host institution and the Exeter study abroad coordinator to decide a programme of study during their year abroad.
You can apply to BSc Marine Biology with Study Abroad directly through UCAS using the code above.
To qualify for your Study Abroad year, we would expect you to have successfully completed your Year 1 studies with an average mark of at least 60%.
The biggest highlight of the programme so far was definitely the field trip to Newquay Zoo in the first term.
Not only was it great fun to see all the animals, but being given enough time to really explore the zoo and learn about them was extremely enriching.
We also learnt about the various projects the zoo is involved with and how they are helping the animals.
Michelle
In your final year you will become an active member of our research team.
All first-years will have the opportunity to join dynamic weekly groups, hosted by both second-year and PhD Biosciences students in Cornwall, which span a range of key areas, such as:
These groups allow you to benefit from advice from your more experienced peers, helping ease your transition into university life.
The subject of the inaugural meeting is decided by the group leader, but you can then suggest subsequent session topics, so sessions are tailored to your direct needs.
Social media groups, such as on Facebook and Google, are also used for continued group discussions and communication outside of the weekly meetings.
There are direct links between session content and modules, which immediately follow lectures where possible.
I thoroughly enjoyed the programme!
It was great to be surrounded by many like-minded people with such a clear passion for the marine environment.
I found myself to be constantly stimulated through all the modules.
The lectures were fantastic, and Falmouth, what a place to study!
Since graduation, I have been working for Natural England within the Strategy and Government Advice team.
I really enjoy the variety of work I currently undertake.
My role covers a range of topics such as changing and new legislation, involvement in marine consultations, working with different industries and stakeholders, and creating new guidance for exciting events such as the designation of Highly Protected Marine Areas (HPMAs).
I am continuing to learn so much and I am surrounded by a fantastic team of supportive and knowledgeable individuals.
Read more from Christopher
Christopher
BSc Marine Biology with Professional Placement (2021)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/marinebiomsci:
MSci Marine Biology - 2026 entry
I love the research inspired teaching delivered by our academics and the opportunities to get involved in their cutting-edge research.
An example of this is my work with Annette Broderick, where I assist in the fitting of satellite tags on Green turtles for her research.
I love watersports so being so immersed in the marine environment fits with my lifestyle very well.
The student community is also very strong here and there is so much going on to get involved in.
Read more from Jade
Jade
MSci Marine Biology
The four-year MSci Marine Biology programme mirrors the BSc Marine Biology programme during the first three years, and includes an additional fourth year during which you will undertake an advanced research project.
Work on an advanced literature review and a research project, both focused on a specialised area.
The remainder of your time will be spent on a two-week intensive field course.
So far, the best part of this programme was the trip to the Azores in September.
We spent twelve days on the archipelago and saw so many amazing species such as sperm whales and risso’s dolphins!
It was an amazing way to get closer to my course mates, learn lots about the industry and see some amazing things!
Rhiannon

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/zoology:
BSc Zoology - 2026 entry
Top 10 in the UK for Zoology
6th in the Guardian University Guide 2025
This programme will provide you with the skills, concepts and experience to understand all aspects of modern zoology.
The programme encourages an interdisciplinary approach and you will be exposed to a wide range of theoretical and practical techniques used to study the biology of animals of all types.
Explore animals in the context of the environments in which they live.
You will examine zoology from molecules to ecosystems and get experience with the modern techniques used to generate knowledge about animal systems.
Explore how animal development relates to the diversity of animal forms and examine animal behaviour as it relates to life history and adaptive evolution.
You will experience a residential field course to gain an understanding of habitats and biodiversity.
Put your analytical and experimental skills to use through your research project with a member of academic staff.
Work side-by-side with researchers, developing an independent research project.
You will have the opportunity to go on one of our final year field courses.
BSc Zoology with Professional Placement
UCAS code: C304
On this four-year variant of the BSc Zoology degree you will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree.
You can apply to BSc Zoology with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
BSc Zoology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: C301
You can apply to BSc Zoology with Study Abroad directly through UCAS using the code above.
Taking up the opportunity to study abroad was one of the best decisions I have made at University.
Studying in a new country allows you to immerse yourself in a completely new culture and exciting surroundings, and also gives you the opportunity to learn more knowledge about your subject from a different perspective.
The year abroad also gives you a chance to be a part of an international community, and it’s a great way to meet people from across the globe.
Read more from Ellie
Ellie
My placement at Paignton Zoo helped me in a number of ways.
It has given me experience running long-term research projects and grown my confidence.
Overall the experience was amazing and I could not recommend it enough.
My main research project on my placement was looking into the effect of artificial UVB light on primate behaviour, focusing on brown spider monkeys, Goeldi’s monkeys and ring-tailed lemurs.
I chose the Penryn Campus because I fell in love with the atmosphere and the intimacy of the campus.
When I visited initially, I could easily picture myself spending three years there.
Penryn is an ideal place to study, and the ‘living laboratory’ environment allows you to put your learning into practice.
All my lecturers were brilliant; they all bring different attitudes to teaching that make it enjoyable and accessible.
They are always happy to stay behind after lectures to answer questions, and were approachable and easy to learn from.
Read more from Sam
Sam
I chose to do zoology because I was always fascinated by the natural world, spending much of my childhood looking for critters.
I loved learning, and the draw of learning everything to do with the animal kingdom was too difficult to resist.
I chose Exeter because of the setting; I grew up with family in Falmouth and loved Cornwall.
Learning about animals whilst having tangible access to the coast and its creatures was incredible.
One of the strongest memories from my time at Exeter was the variety of modules and the experts leading them.
After finishing my undergraduate degree, I went on to do a Masters by Research studying stingrays in the Bahamas, this was such an incredible experience and I still dream of stingrays almost every night.
I then took a career break to walk from Mexico to Canada on the Pacific Crest Trail.
Following this intensive lesson in resilience, I joined the Civil Service Fast Stream where I learnt how science was actually implemented and used in central government.
From here I transferred within the Civil Service to Cefas.
I am now a scientist within the shellfish team.
Read more from Molly
Molly
BSc Zoology (2016)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/zoologymsci:
MSci Zoology - 2026 entry
Doing this degree has given me so many opportunities that I wouldn't have had otherwise.
I've managed to do so many fantastic things.
My favourite is a close call between my dissertation (the effects of aromatherapy on stress in rescue centre dogs) and being part of the Elephants and Bees Project in Kenya for a month, which was a priceless experience.
Lauren
MSci Zoology
The four-year MSci Zoology programme mirrors the BSc Zoology programme during the first three years, and includes an additional fourth year during which you will undertake a research project, an advanced statistical modelling module and a literature review.
The programme focuses on an understanding of the biology of animals, with an emphasis on whole animal biology, biodiversity, ecology and behaviour, along with the evolution of the whole spectrum of animal life histories.
The fourth year provides an opportunity to work on an advanced literature review and a research project, both focused on a specialised area aligned with one of our leading research groups.
You will also spend two weeks on an intensive field course in which your scientific field research, debating and presentation skills will be further developed.
The exposure to different research areas and expert researchers that I had during my degree was invaluable as I’m now able to understand complex terminology and find a way to make it accessible.
I also work with a range of people on a day-to-day basis, and I think my time at university set me up to do this well.
Bek (Zoology, 2016)
Now working at the Centre for the Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (Cefas)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law/bbllaw:
BBL Bachelor of Business and Laws (Cornwall) - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB-ABB IB: 34-32/665-655 BTEC: DDD-DDM
A-Level: BBB-BBC IB: 30-28/555-554 BTEC: DDM
With Industrial Placement
Please note that the BBL programme does not cover all of the Foundations of Legal Knowledge.
Find out more on our dedicated Cornwall pages .
Study Law and Business at the University of Exeter
Top 150 in the world for Law
Exeter rank for Law in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings by Subject 2025
Employer-led presentations from law firms to develop skills and improve opportunities
Co-delivered with the Triple Accredited University of Exeter Business School
ACCA, AMBA, EQUIS
Top 10 in the UK for Business, Management and Marketing
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 and The Complete University Guide 2026
The degree is divided into core and optional modules, which gives you the flexibility to structure your degree according to your specific interests.
Individual modules are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
Full-time undergraduates need to take 120 credits in each year.
In addition to the core modules, you can choose from an extensive range of optional modules.
Students must ensure they take a minimum of 60 optional Law credits across Stages 2 and 3, with a minimum of 30 credits in Law at Stage 3
a - Students must pick at least ONE of LAW2015C or LAW2004C.
They do not have to take both.
With Industrial Placement (if taken)
You will spend your third year on an industrial placement.
With Professional Placement (if taken)
You will spend your third year on a professional placement.
BBL Bachelor of Business and Laws with Industrial Placement
UCAS code: NM02
Spending up to a year carrying out a graduate-level work placement as part of your degree programme is an invaluable opportunity.
It unlocks a world of experience that allows you to develop essential employability and transferrable skills for your future career.
You will take full responsibility for finding and organising your placement in a business setting of your choosing (either in the UK or abroad), with preparation, support and approval from the University.
This is a great way to demonstrate to employers your adaptability, commercial awareness, independence and resourcefulness.
The placement year is credit-bearing and contributes towards the final degree classification.
Information about assessments can be found on the module descriptor.
Students taking a placement year can normally expect to receive the equivalent of an annual wage of £16,000 to £18,000 for the time they are working.
You will take full responsibility for finding and organising your placement (either in the UK or abroad), with preparation, support and approval from the University.
BBL Bachelor of Business and Laws with Professional Placement
UCAS code: NM03
Spending up to a year carrying out a professional placement with a law firm or an in-house legal team as part of your degree programme is an invaluable opportunity.
You will develop and deepen your understanding of business and legal practices.
The programme is designed to provide a first-hand understanding of a professional working environment through the enhancement of key transferable skills such as working with others, problem solving and communication.
This unlocks a world of experience that allows you to develop essential employability and interpersonal skills that relate to your degree and future career.
This is a great way to demonstrate to employers your adaptability, commercial awareness, independence and resourcefulness
We place an emphasis on small group learning giving you ample opportunity to participate, ask questions and get to know your tutors.
Law degrees in Cornwall form part of a portfolio of programmes available at our world-class Exeter Law School.
Our collaboration with the University of Exeter Business School is unique to the Penryn Campus.
Our modules in Environmental Law and Policy, Human Rights and Company Law are available to undergraduate students across Campus, creating a learning environment which respects and benefits from such a diverse cohort of learners.
We are committed to creating a diverse and thriving student community.
We believe that this is achieved by providing a supportive learning environment, which nurtures talent through-out your time with us.
In addition, in Cornwall, students will benefit from a bespoke learning experience with intentionally low student-staff ratios and an unrivalled commitment to excellence in teaching.
Graduates from this degree will have a knowledge of key aspects of law such as Torts, contract and company law along with an understanding of economics, management, marketing and project management giving them an advantage in both the law and industry.
Alongside this you will gain a range of academic, personal and professional skills including:
The wealth of knowledge and transferable skills gained studying a Business and Law degree enables graduates to pursue employment in a wide range of careers including:
Students can undertake further study in order to enter the legal profession as a solicitor or barrister or undertake postgraduate programmes within the fields of Law or Business such as:
We have a dedicated, award-winning Careers Service , with an office at our Penryn campus, ensuring you have access to careers advisors, mentors and the tools you need to succeed in finding employment in your chosen field on graduation.
The University’s Careers Service also hosts an annual Law Careers Fair, putting our students face-to-face with prospective employers, who target Exeter because of our reputation for producing well-rounded and successful professionals
View all Law courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business/businessbsc:
BSc Business (Cornwall) - 2026 entry
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1326 371801
A-Level: BBC-BCC IB: 28/554-26/544 BTEC: DDM-DMM
9th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 and The Complete University Guide 2026
All Business School departments are top 15 for graduate prospects
Studying at the University of Exeter in Cornwall was one of the best decisions I have ever made.
The BSc Business degree was diverse, exciting and engaging and the university experience was unbeatable.
My personal highlights of the course include the focused cohort, the real-world opportunities to apply learning and the passionate lecturers.
If you commit to the programme you really reap the rewards in terms of employability, key networking skills and a wealth of industry contacts.
Read more from Olly
Olly
BSc Business 2018
30 credits of options
You can apply directly to one of these options via UCAS, or you can apply to the standard 3 year course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
The BSc Business degree includes integrated work experience in each year of study, offering you the opportunity to gain a proven work history, put into practice your learning from each year, and experience the world of work first hand.
The number and variety of placements also gives you an excellent opportunity to explore which roles and industries you may want to go into by giving you a taste of life in several different organisations and roles.
The integrated work placements are credit bearing and count towards your degree through employer reports and student assessment.
You will identify the organisation you wish to work with, and will spend 60-80 hours in placement between September and April, supported by our dedicated employability team.
Employers who regularly engage with the Business School include:
“Aula has undoubtedly made a great contribution to Ultramed in the course of her placement.
She has researched extremely useful information and produced helpful reports which compliment, add value and will be of ongoing benefit to Ultramed’s work with the Department of International Trad e.”
Anne Davidson, Chief Operations Officer, Ultramed
BSc Business with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: N113
Find out more on our tuition fee webpages .
'With Industrial Experience’ is available on all Business School undergraduate programmes.
BSc Business with Year Abroad
UCAS code: N114
Although lectures are one of the main forms of teaching, you will also learn through participation in workshops, tutorials and seminars.
As well as tackling case studies, discussing current issues in business and debating key theories, you will also develop presentation, team working, communication and problem solving skills.
You’ll have a personal tutor who is available for advice and support throughout your studies.
Timetabled contact hours, made up of lectures, seminars and tutorials, vary over the duration of programmes and between programmes and are on average between 11 and 14 hours.
In addition, you will be expected to complete an average of 20-25 hours of independent or group study per week.
You have to pass the assessments in your first year to proceed to the second year but they do not count towards your final degree classification.
BSc Business is based at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
With a focus on sustainability and practical learning, you’ll benefit from hands-on experiences and strong connections to industry.
> Watch our YouTube video
The BSc Business degree adopts an international outlook meaning you will develop an understanding of the global business environment.
Combined with the opportunity to study abroad or work a year in industry, you will be well placed to work for local or international companies.
BSc Business degree will prepare you for a professional career in a wide range of sectors including e-commerce, marketing, manufacturing and/or wholesale, management relations, environmental consultancy or social enterprise.
You will also be well placed to consider setting up your own business venture.
View all Business and Management courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business/businessanalytics:
BSc Business Analytics - 2026 entry
Top 10 for Business and Management
Your first year is composed of compulsory modules to ensure you receive a strong grounding in the core competencies of your degree, as well as the ability to undertake 30 credits of optional modules meaning you can begin to explore areas of interest.
Modules are either 15 – 30 credits meaning you could take up to 2 optional modules on top of the compulsory modules.
30 credits of optional modules.
The following modules are recommended as options that will fit well alongside other course content, however students are free to choose electives from across the University subject to meeting relevant pre-requisites.
Your second year develops your analytics skills to an intermediate level, whilst enabling much more flexibility to pursue your interests by allowing for 45 credits of optional modules.
45 credits of optional modules.
The BSc Business Analytics degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options via UCAS, or you can apply to the standard 3 year BSc Business Analytics course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
Whilst compulsory modules develop your knowledge to advance level, 60 credits of optional modules allow you to specialise according to your interests, or explore a wide range of topics enabling you to graduate with a broad knowledge base.
60 credits of optional modules.
You can apply directly to one of these options using the UCAS codes below, or you can apply to the standard 3-year BSc Business Analytics course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
BSc Business Analytics with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: N301
The ‘With Industrial Experience’ (WIE) pathway is a four year version of your degree, in which your third year is spent in a professional placement before returning to university for your fourth and final year.
Find out more on our careers pages.
If you choose not to undertake the four year WIE pathway, there are other ways to gain work experience, from the Business Internships and Placements Module, to summer internships.
BSc Business Analytics with Year Abroad
UCAS code: N302
The BSc Business Analytics degree adopts an international outlook meaning you will develop an understanding of the global business environment.
Combined with the opportunity to study abroad or work a year in industry, you will be well-placed to work for local or international companies.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business/business-environment:
BSc Business and Environment (Cornwall) - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABB - BBB IB: 32/655-30/555 BTEC: DDM
A-Level: BBC-BCC IB: 28/554 - 26/544 BTEC: DDM - DMM
Our mission: to prepare future leaders to drive sustainable business.
A pioneering programme: at the forefront of sustainable business and management education; part of a world leading centre for sustainability.
Interdisciplinary experience: equipping you with essential business skills, complemented by a deep understanding of the balance between business, society, and nature.
Flexible studies: 45 credits of optional modules in years 2 and 3, tailored to your interests and career aspirations.
Highly employable graduates: capable of confidently navigating the transition towards a more sustainable economy.
Beautiful location: study at our Penryn campus in Cornwall , a hub of environmental and social sustainability expertise, close to the sea and areas of outstanding natural beauty.
The Business School in Cornwall is future facing which I think is needed for a Business degree in the 21 st century.
It is not just looking at ideologies and theories but actually putting it into practice.
Living in Cornwall is an absolute dream.
You have outstanding beauty on your doorstep and some of the best beaches in the UK.
There is also an amazing heritage and culture in Cornwall.
At the Penryn Campus, you combine learning in a space of outstanding beauty with opportunities you wouldn’t get at other universities such as sailing and surfing.
BSc Business and Environment
BSc Business and Environment focuses on the interdependence of business and the natural environment.
It equips business leaders of tomorrow with the skills and insights to tackle the most pressing challenges facing society.
This course examines how business needs to change in order to address intensifying environmental issues and to achieve a sustainable economy.
It is designed for anyone interested in becoming an adaptable and resilient leader, wishing to contribute to long-term ethical solutions.
The programme is interdisciplinary, covering a range of topics including:
You’ll be part of a seminar-style international learning community, resulting in stronger peer networks with learning reinforced through one-to-one interaction with lecturers and researchers.
“Being interdisciplinary, BSc Business and the Environment encompasses a diverse range of topics, from ecological economics to environmental science.
This, combined with a high level of module flexibility, has opened up a wide range of career options for me, whilst enabling me to study what I'm most passionate about.” - Isaac
“I think that BSc Business and the Environment is so special because it provides us with such a variety of modules and allows us to build a wider and stronger range of knowledge.
I have loved the experience and really enjoyed exploring topics I may not have explored if I didn't take this programme.” - Olivia
105 credits of compulsory modules, 15 credits of optional modules.
Students can select one 15 credit module from the list below:
a You must select at least 15 credits of optional modules from this list of Environmental modules
b You must select at least 15 credits of optional modules from this list of Business modules
Our Business and the Environment degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options using the UCAS codes below, or you can apply to the standard Business and the Environment course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
BSc Business and Environment with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: N118
Find out more on our Careers pages.
BSc Business and Environment with Year Abroad
UCAS code: N117
I have loved living in Cornwall, I truly understand what attracts visitors to it during the holidays: the friendly locals, beautiful beaches, locally owned businesses and great food.
Cornwall’s diverse geological landscape makes it an ideal terrain to study the many natural science and ecological degrees offered on campus.
My programme has an overarching Business and Environmental Science focus made up of relevant transdisciplinary modules, which I believe is not only crucially relevant and important within the challenge of climate change we are currently experiencing, but also allows for obtaining unique skills and perspectives which can be applied in any type of business setting.
Read more from Liné
Liné
You will study on our beautiful Penryn Campus in Cornwall, the South of England.
The BSc Business and Environment degree adopts an international outlook meaning you will develop an understanding of the global business environment.
The wide range of business, management and environmental skills developed throughout the Programme will result in flexible employment options including roles such as project manager, marketing manager and sales manager.
You will have employment advantages in private companies, public organisations, investment banks, NGOs, and third-sector industries, including key areas for Cornwall such as, water, renewables and food supply chain.
This combination of ethical, work-based, and global skills will create students who can compete at the highest levels and progress onto graduate Programmes to become CSR managers, change managers and environmental consultants.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business/businessman:
BSc Business and Management - 2026 entry
Learn creative problem solving and entrepreneurial skills in our new CQ makerspace
Through my time at the University of Exeter, I have been pleasantly surprised by the breadth of support available through careers chats, CV guidance, society events, revision classes and office hours.
My advice to upcoming and potential students would be to make use of the abundance of resources available as they can truly aid your academic and professional experience, as they have with me!
BSc Business and Management with Industrial Experience
Business School optional modules for stage 1-3 can be seen on this module list , modules that are marked 'DA' are for degree apprenticeships only.
45 credits of optional modules
You can apply directly to one of these options via UCAS, or you can apply to the standard 3-year course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
Elective Choice for 15 Credits of Management Modules in Stage 3 – Students must choose one of the following as an elective module.
The Business and Management degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options using the UCAS codes below, or you can apply to the standard Business and Management course and transfer onto one of these options in your first term at Exeter.
UCAS code: NN12
Find out more on our Careers pages .
BSc Business and Management with Year Abroad
UCAS code: N204
My favourite part of my course was my placement year.
Bec ause I has chosen the placement year pathway, i n my first and second year, I had modules within my course dedicated to help ing with CV, cover letter and LinkedIn profile writing and designing , as well as mock interviews and assessment centres courtesy of the C areer Z one.
There were many workshops available on applying for jobs and being a good candidate which I found very helpful .
I also had many 1:1s with career advisors to discuss specific details about a pplying for jobs , my CV, cover letter and more .
These services were very helpful .
Read more from Nana
Nana
The BSc Business and Management degree adopts an international outlook meaning you will develop an understanding of the global business environment.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/programmes/charteredmanager:
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship Fast track
Tel: 01392 723 099 Email: businessDAs@exeter.ac.uk
Download our programme flyer
Membership of the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) from the start of the course
Our syllabus is Dual accredited by the Chartered Manager Institute (CMI) and the University of Exeter.
Successful completion of the programme will result in the award of the Level 6 Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship, a University of Exeter BSc (Hons) in Responsible Business Management, and CMI Chartered Manager status.
Recognising applicants’ prior skills and qualifications allows us to accelerate our programme by providing two fast track entry routes:
Applicants must have a minimum of two years management experience.
They must also be in a role that supports the gathering of evidence required for the Chartered Manager apprenticeship ‘standard’.
There is a requirement from the Education and Skills Funding Agency that apprentices hold a level 2 qualification in English and Mathematics.
Individual employers may set additional selection criteria in discussion with the University.
Applicants must also have a valid and eligible residency status to gain entry onto the apprenticeship – please see the ESFA guidance for further information .
The Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship does not follow the standard UCAS application process.
Selection to this programme is made by employers; applicants will already hold a post with an employer and continue working for them throughout the duration of this apprenticeship.
Applicants will need to speak to their HR department and/or manager to gain sign off to undertake this apprenticeship.
Once your employer agrees to the apprenticeship, applicants will then be required undertake an application for the University.
If successful,  they will be offered a position.
A place will be confirmed by us, and we will send further information about how to enrol as an apprentice.
Full programme cost: £19,500
The employer fully covers the cost of the apprenticeship; apprentices do not pay for any of the eligible training costs.
The apprentice will be an employee of the organisation, gaining a University of Exeter award alongside working and earning a salary.
The Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship is suitable for current or aspiring professional managers and leaders who wish to develop their knowledge, skills and behaviours, enabling them to drive performance and productivity improvements in your organisation.
Through this programme apprentices will use principles of problem-based and inquiry-led learning to demonstrate managerial effectiveness using skills such as critical thinking, negotiation, innovation and creativity.
Apprentices develop well-rounded management skills by looking holistically across the business functions (Managing People, Marketing, Finance, Operations, Project Management, Digital Business and Technology, Decision Making) applying new knowledge to deepen their understanding.
Apprentices will cover the following topics throughout the programme:
APEL entry
Completion of assignments if applying for a place on the programme using APEL process.
Please see entry requirements above
Making the decision to start this course has been one of the best decisions of my career.
My initial hopes were that the course would give me more confidence and theoretical knowledge to support my existing experience-based learning.
The course has helped me to achieve all this and more.
I thought I had reached my limit with regards to career progression but the apprenticeship has given me renewed ambition and direction and I am excited for future opportunities.
Read more from Marissa
Marissa
Chartered Manager Degree Apprentice
Approximately 20 per cent of an apprentice's contractual working time will be given over to study (6 hours minimum per week).
Our model is designed to be flexible around the needs of apprentices and workloads to minimise undue disruptions to their daily role and ensuring maximum flexibility to gain new knowledge and develop skills and behaviours.
This programme will be assessed by:
Our dedicated partnerships team liaise closely with employers throughout the programme.
Alongside a team of world-leading academics with rich industry experience, apprentices will also have dedicated mentors to support and guide both them and their employer throughout the entire course of the apprenticeship.
Alongside studying for their level 6 apprenticeship, gained after completing the Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours of the apprenticeship standard, apprentices will also work towards a BSc in Responsible Business Management and CMI professional accreditation.
This programme aligns with the Chartered Manager (degree) Apprenticeship Standard.
Apprentices develop well-rounded management skills by looking holistically across the business functions (Managing People, Marketing, Finance, Operations, Project Management, Digital Business and Technology, Decision Making) applying new knowledge to deepen their understanding to drive impact within their roles.
For more information download our Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship flyer
Through this programme, employers' managerial potential will be unlocked, as well as the abilities to create solutions for future success.
Apprentices will have become well-rounded leaders with valuable understanding across a range of business functions and strategic decision making (e.g.
Managing People, Marketing, Finance, Operations, Project Management, Digital Business and Technology, Decision Making).
Our syllabus is dual accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
Upon successful completion of the programme, apprentices will be awarded a Level 6 Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship, a University of Exeter BSc (Hons) in Responsible Business Management and CMI Chartered Manager status.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business/international:
BA International Business and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
Option to spend a year abroad studying at a partner university
I want to study a new language at beginner level alongside my other subject
I want to study my A level (or equivalent) language at advanced level alongside my other subject
In the section named ‘further details’ on your UCAS application form please indicate in the ‘choices’ field the language and route you wish to study using the abbreviations below, separated by a space:
Stage 1: 45 credits of compulsory Business School modules, 45 credits of compulsory modules in Modern Languages, 15 credits of optional Business School modules, 15 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
a) select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language
b) select 15 credits of optional Business modules ( http://business-school.exeter.ac.uk/programmes/undergraduate/modules/ )
Business School Optional Modules: BEA, BEE, BEM
Stage 2: 45 credits of compulsory Business School modules, 45 credits of compulsory modules in Modern Languages, 15 credits of optional Business School modules, 15 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
c) select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language
d) Select 15 credits of optional Business modules ( http://business-school.exeter.ac.uk/programmes/undergraduate/modules/ )
This degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year studying or working abroad.
If you choose this option your placement year will take place in your third year, before returning to complete your degree at Exeter in your fourth and final year of study.
You can apply directly to this option, or you can apply to the standard 3 year course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
e) You must take one of these modules:
The BA International Business and Modern Languages degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year studying abroad.
You can apply directly to this option, or you can apply to the standard BA International Business and Modern Languages course and transfer onto this option in the first term of your first year.
BA International Business and Modern Languages with Year Abroad
UCAS code: NN15
Our four-year ‘with Year Abroad’ degree offers you the possibility of spending your third year abroad, studying with one of our many partner universities.
The BA International Business and Modern Languages is a unique programme that enables you to tailor your degree to your own strengths and employability aspirations by acquiring core specific knowledge and skills as well as selecting new subjects during your learning journey.
It is a natural fit for students wanting to give themselves an advantage in the global commercial world, and provides you with a potent combination of intercultural skills, business acumen, relevant commercial knowledge, and linguistic ability to really stand out from other graduates without this complementary combination of abilities.
We anticipate that most graduates will move on to business-oriented careers – management, marketing, finance, etc – but that they will pursue these careers across the globe for a much broader range of international companies than usual.
Skills developed during this collaborative degree – including the optional year abroad – include analytical problem solving, written and verbal fluency, managing and analysing information, cultural awareness, research, team working, and critical thinking, all of which are essential to modern global business.
Visit the Business School Career Zone webpage for more information.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law/lawbusiness:
LLB Law with Business (Cornwall) - 2026 entry
Our LLB programmes provide an excellent start to a legal career if that is your goal, equipping you with the knowledge and skills that will support you towards the next steps to professional legal qualification.
This includes the 'foundations of legal knowledge' subjects required for the academic stage of qualification as a barrister.
If you plan to qualify as a solicitor or barrister, after you graduate you will need to comply with the further training and other requirements of the Solicitors Regulation Authority or the Bar Standards Board , or the relevant regulatory body in the country in which you intend to practice.
High quality education in a small, friendly campus in beautiful Cornwall
The LLB Law with Business includes practical experience of law through clinical work
Top 10 for Law Graduate Prospects
The Law with Business course is holistic and engaging.
My favourite part of this course is the mock trials that are held throughout the year.
It makes you think critically about how to structure legal arguments and put yourself in the shoes of certain clients or lawyers.
I love the fact that I can discuss engaging topics about the nature of law in the real world with my professors.
I think that the business modules give you a wide variety to choose from in your law degree and are a great addition to your skillset.
Penryn is a beautiful place, I find that it's a great place to focus on your studies.
Read more from Summer
Summer
LLB Law and Business Studies student
90 credits of compulsory Law modules, 30 credits of optional Business modules
And 30 credits from following Business (BEP) options.
View modules here https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=business-school
Please note that modules are subject to change and not all modules are available across all programmes, this is due to timetable, module size constraints and availability.
At stage 2, you must take LAW2004C and LAW2015C.
You must also take 45 credits in business and a further 15 credits in law, or business, or elective modules from outside the programme.
You will spend your third year on an industrial placement.
You will spend your third year on a Professional Placement .
60-90 credits of compulsory modules, 30-60 credits of optional modules
a - LAW3084C Constitutional Law and LAW3085C Human Rights Law are compulsory for those transferring from the BBL to the LLB.
Those who have already studied LAW1027C Constitutional Law and LAW1028C Human Rights Law cannot take them.
UCAS code: M115
UCAS code: M118

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/business/marketing:
BSc Marketing and Management - 2026 entry
Top 5 in the UK for Marketing
4th in the Complete University Guide 2026
Top 10 in the Russell Group for student satisfaction in 5 out of 7 themes
National Student Survey 2024: Management
Our BSc Marketing and Management programme has accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) through its Graduate Gateway.
Students on this course may be eligible for exemption towards CIM Professional Diploma depending on modules taken.
At Exeter, University professors invest in their students.
They truly care about students’ development & progression while on their course as well as after.
Each professor is always willing to provide additional support and guidance whenever needed.
As I am now working this year, I realize just how useful & relevant most modules have been; I’ve been able to use my marketing foundations quite a bit at Pfizer!
Because of the high-quality professors and modules at Exeter, I feel very prepared and excited to enter the work world.
Read more from Sophia
Sophia
BSc Marketing and Management
Stage 1 consists of 90 credits of compulsory modules and 30 credits of optional modules.
30 credits of optional modules
Stage 2 consists of 90 credits of compulsory modules and 30 credits of optional modules.
You can apply directly to one of these options, via UCAS or you can apply to the standard 3 year course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
Stage 3 consists of 45 credits of compulsory modules and 75 credits of optional modules.
75 credits of optional modules (of which 30 credits must be BEM/BUS modules)
The BSc Marketing and Management degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard BSc Marketing and Management course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
BSc Marketing and Management with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: N2NN
BSc Marketing and Management with Year Abroad
UCAS code: N2N6
As part of the ‘With Industrial Experience’ programme, I am looking forward to spending the third year of my course gaining first-hand insight and knowledge of the business sector, which will really help my employability after my degree is completed.
We’ve already has a specific module preparing us for this year, which has taught me so much about CV design and networking and has made me feel a lot more confident about securing a placement.
Dominique
The BSc Marketing and Management degree adopts an international outlook meaning you will develop an understanding of the global business environment.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/politics-business:
BSc Politics and Business (Cornwall) - 2026 entry
A-Levels: BBC IB: 28/554 BTEC: DMM
Our BSc Politics and Business is designed to equip you with the critical knowledge needed to navigate the intersection of business, politics, and policymaking.
As global challenges such as political upheaval, geopolitical instability, climate change, and economic transformation intensify, it is crucial for business leaders to understand political processes and for policymakers to grasp the dynamics of business management.
Through this interdisciplinary programme, you will explore how political and economic shifts around industrial policy, sustainability, and corporate governance impact business and government alike.
The course offers a balanced blend of theoretical insight and practical experience, aimed at fostering employability across a wide range of professional contexts, including government, NGOs, consultancy, and public relations.
The curriculum integrates core topics such as public policy, project management, political communication, and business strategy, allowing students to specialise in areas like environmental sustainability, digitalisation, political psychology, and organisational leadership.
Additionally, you can gain real-world experience through work placements and professional development modules, enhancing your practical skills and career readiness.
Delivered exclusively at our Penryn Campus (Cornwall), this programme benefits from the campus's focus on innovation, sustainability, and interdisciplinary research.
You will engage with key themes such as environmental governance, social entrepreneurship, and workplace democracy, drawing on the latest research to address pressing issues.
The programme’s unique setting in Cornwall offers a dynamic and supportive learning environment, while the small student community fosters close interaction with academic staff, allowing you to actively debate and refine your ideas.
Full-time undergraduates take 120 credits each year and choose from modules worth 15 or 30 credits.
In years 2 and 3, you have more choice and opportunity to study in-depth the topics that interest you most.
Core modules are mainly designed to develop applied research skills and include a third year dissertation on a subject of your choice.
You will also have the option to take up to 30 credits from another department within the University, subject to approval.
75 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules of which at least 15 must be taken from Stage 1 Business options and 15 credits from Stage 1 Politics options
Note: You may take only one of BEP1020 Business Practice and Analysis and POC2047 Work Placement
Stage 2: 60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules of which at least 15 must be taken from Stage 2 Business options and 15 credits from Stage 2 Politics options
Study Abroad/Employment Experience Year (if taken)
Find out more about the Study Abroad or Employment Experience year
120 credit compulsory study abroad placement module
120 credit compulsory placement module.
60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules of which at least 15 credits must be selected from final stage Politics optional modules and 15 credits from final stage Business optional modules
BA Politics and Business with Study Abroad
UCAS code: LL34
You can either apply directly through UCAS using the code above, or apply to BA Politics and Business and ask to transfer onto the 'Study Abroad' option in your first year at Penryn.
BA Politics and Business with Employment Experience
UCAS code: LL36
You can either apply directly through UCAS using the code above, or apply to BA Politics and Business and ask to transfer onto the 'Employment Experience' option in your first year at Penryn.
I love how student are on first name terms with lecturers and seminar leaders.
With class and lecture sizes being relatively small compared to other universities, I gain a lot more information and support than I would have originally expected.
Aaron
Studying Politics and International Relations (Cornwall)
Conducting fieldwork gives you the opportunity to witness the evolution of political process and their impact on society first hand.
This may include:
Politics and International Relations programmes in Cornwall are part of a world-class research institution.
We believe that this is achieved by providing a supportive learning environment, which nurtures our students through-out your time with us and helps you make the transition from school to university.
In addition, in Cornwall, students will benefit from a bespoke learning experience within a diverse cohort of students and an unrivalled commitment to excellence in teaching.
Politics in Cornwall is characterised by its focus on some of the biggest political challenges facing the world today such as inequality, climate change, the global financial crisis, conflict, and the depletion of natural resources, public disillusionment with politics, and the changing balance in world power.
We’ll teach you about political systems and theories and apply these to world events and the major issues setting the modern political agenda, giving you real world skills valued by employers.
As a Politics and International Relations graduate you will have an understanding of complex political and cultural issues, often in changing environments which will be valued by employers in both the public and private sectors.
The University has an excellent reputation with graduate recruiters and our graduates compete very successfully in the employment market.
Below are a few examples of the positions or organisations our graduates have gone onto*:
Occupations
Organisation
Below are a few examples of further study undertaken by recent graduates of undergraduate programmes.
Please note that, due to data protection the subjects of study and institutions are listed independently and do not necessarily correspond.
Subject area
Institution
Video features the song "Everything is a Jawn" by EVA ( https://joshlis.bandcamp.com/ ) which is available under a Creative Commons Attribution license ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/ ).
Edited for length.
View all Politics and International Relations courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/classics/ancient:
BA Ancient History - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB IB: 34/665 BTEC: DDD
A-Level: BBB IB: 30/555 BTEC: DDM
We are 4th in the UK for world-leading Classics research
Based on 4* research in the Research Excellence Framework 2021
90-105 credits of compulsory modules, 15-30 credits of optional modules
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of ancient history, methods and concepts.
b - select 30-60 credits of Classical Language and Texts module at the appropriate level from this list.
If you select CLA1025 Classical Language and Texts Greek I (A), you must also select CLA1026 Classical Language and Texts Greek I (B); if you select CLA1027 Classical Language and Texts Latin I (A), you must also select CLA1028 Classical Language and Texts Latin I (B).
c - select 15-30 credits of Ancient Sources (Written Evidence) modules from this list.
d - select Ancient World: Roman Philosophy (CLA1508/CLA2508) or Ancient World: Greek Philosophy (CLA1507/CLA2507) in either stage 1 or 2; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
If you do not take one of these modules in stage 1, you must take one in stage 2.
e - select 15-30 credits of Text and Context modules from CLA1408/CLA1410.
f select 0-30 credits from this list of Classics and Ancient History optional modules.
60-75 credits of compulsory modules, 45-60 credits of optional modules
In the second year you will advance your grasp of ancient history knowledge and methods through a set of compulsory modules.
g - select either CLA2001 or CLA2002; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
h - select 15-45 credits of Ancient Sources (Written Evidence) modules from this list.
i - select Ancient World: Roman Philosophy (CLA1508/CLA2508) or Ancient World: Greek Philosophy (CLA1507/CLA2507) in either stage 1 or 2; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
j - select 15-45 credits of Ancient Sources (Material Evidence) modules from this list.
k - select 0-30 credits from this list of Classics and Ancient History optional modules.
You will have the choice of a range of specialist modules, including the opportunity to take our dissertation module, to create a programme of work fully reflecting your interests and providing you with the opportunity to demonstrate what you have learned over the previous years of your degree.
BA Ancient History with Study Abroad
UCAS code: V112
BA Ancient History with Employment Experience
UCAS code: V113
BA Ancient History with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: V114
Our teaching makes full use of seminars, study groups and web-based learning, and there are many other opportunities for you to add to your overall experience in the department.
We integrate the latest approaches with traditional lectures, to give you a varied and challenging programme.
In the first two years, the teaching is via both formal lectures (usually 50-70 students) and discussion-based seminar groups of around 12-18 students.
All final year teaching is through discussion-based seminar groups.
You’ll receive 10 contact hours per week with staff, both teaching time and with your personal tutor.
You’re also expected to invest plenty of time in independent study and contact with your study-group (for example, in preparation for seminars).
We hold mini conferences for some modules, where students can present papers to fellow students and staff, along with weekly research seminars and monthly Classical Association lectures, with talks from leading internal and external speakers.
We have a lively and engaged student-led Classics Society which organises events throughout the year.
Recently they have organised a trip abroad, plays, balls, debates, film nights, and loads more, on top of running lectures and a peer-mentoring scheme for the ancient languages.
The department also publishes its own journal, Pegasus, and our students take an active role in writing and editing this publication.
Teaching that is inspired by research, ensures that lectures are up-to-date and relevant to your studies.
You will benefit from access to the latest thinking, equipment and resources.
All staff teach third year options linked to their own interests, which include the study of ancient Greek Mythology, moral concepts in Latin literature, Greek inscriptions and ancient ideas of character, food, sex, politics and religion.
You will be assessed by coursework and exams throughout your study.
In most modules, your assessment will be: in the first year 70% exams and 30% coursework; in the second year 60% exams and 40% coursework; and in the final year 50% exams and 50% coursework.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/classics/classics:
BA Classics - 2026 entry
The Classics course at Exeter was actually the first I ever looked at, and I knew at once it was for me.
I love the variety and range within the course and unusual opportunities like the Creative Interpretative Project, a module I completed this year which allowed me to explore the Ancient World through art.
The sense of community around Classics at Exeter has also been really important to me.
I’ve been able to really get to know all my lecturers, so that I can come to them whenever I need help with anything at all in my studies.
Exeter has also offered me opportunities beyond Classics through an internship with the Digital Humanities Lab.
This has been a chance to work with academics on projects and get a unique insight into where studies in Humanities might be heading in the future.
Read more from Eleanor
Eleanor
BA Classics
a - You must select one 30-credit or two 15-credit Classical Language and Texts: Latin modules and one 30-credit or two 15-credit Classical Language and Texts: Greek modules at the appropriate level.
b - You must select one 30-credit Classical Language and Texts: Latin module and one 30-credit Classical Language and Texts: Greek module at the appropriate level.
c - You must select one 30-credit Classical Language and Texts: Latin module and one 30-credit Classical Language and Texts: Greek module at the appropriate level.
BA Classics with Study Abroad
UCAS code: Q803
BA Classics with Employment Experience
UCAS code: Q804
BA Classics with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: Q805
We integrate the latest approaches with traditional lectures to give you a varied and challenging programme.
Teaching that is inspired by research ensures that lectures are up-to-date and relevant to your studies.
This is a module which appeals to the inventive, the creative, and the experimental, offering students a unique opportunity to engage critically with the ancient world specifically through creative and imaginative practice.
The aim is to deepen our understanding of the ancient world through critical practice, on the principle that we can more intensely understand the remote worlds of the past not just by writing about them, but by engaging directly with them through creative means.
This is an opportunity for students not just to write about the Classical tradition, but to become a living part of it, and to bring the ancient past to life in provocative new ways.
The module consists of a series of specialist workshops and taught sessions which are designed to stimulate and enhance students’ own creativity and to provide an intellectual framework for their individual projects.
Projects can take any form, from creative writing, to painting, drama, dance, sculpture, music, digital technology – the possibilities are endless.
Students are also required to submit a 2000 word critical interpretation to accompany their project that reflects critically upon it and explains its interpretative value.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/classics/classical:
BA Classical Studies - 2026 entry
I’ve loved every moment of my time here; the course has so many different options that it can really cater to everyone’s interests.
It also gives people the opportunity to explore areas that they’ve not had the chance to explore before and to develop new interests.
It’s been really fun going from a lecture on philosophy to one on drama to learning Latin, all in one day.
There’s been a lot of stuff that I didn’t expect, but that all adds to the excitement of it and has meant that I never know what’s coming next, it’s certainly never stale.
Read more from Seth
Seth
BA Classical Studies with Study Abroad
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of classics theory, concepts, and texts, plus the opportunity to study Ancient Greek or Latin.
c - select 15-30 credits of Text and Context modules from this list.
d - select 15-30 credits of Ancient Sources (Written Evidence) modules from this list.
e - select Ancient World: Roman Philosophy (CLA1508/CLA2508) or Ancient World: Greek Philosophy (CLA1507/CLA2507) in either stage 1 or 2; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
f - select 0-30 credits from this list of Classics and Ancient History optional modules.
In the second year you will advance your grasp of classics knowledge, methods, and texts through a set of compulsory modules.
g - select either CLA2005 or CLA2006; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
h - select 30-60 credits of Classical Language and Texts module at the appropriate level from this list.
i - select 15-30 credits of Text and Context modules from this list.
j - select 15-30 credits of Ancient Sources (Material Evidence) modules from this list.
k - select Ancient World: Roman Philosophy (CLA1508/CLA2508) or Ancient World: Greek Philosophy (CLA1507/CLA2507) in either stage 1 or 2; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
l - select 0-30 credits from this list of Classics and Ancient History optional modules.
UCAS code: Q802
BA Classical Studies with Employment Experience
UCAS code: Q806
BA Classical Studies with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: Q807

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/classics/classics-english:
BA Classical Studies and English - 2026 entry
60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 30 credits of English modules).
b - select 30 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
c - select 30 credits from this list of optional English modules.
30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 60 credits of English modules).
e - select 30 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
f - select 60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30-60 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 30-60 credits of English modules)
g - select a Dissertation in either Classical Studies or English: CLA3009 or EAS3003 or EAS3122 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
h - if selecting EAS3003 or EAS3122, select 60 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
i - if selecting CLA3009, select 60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
BA Classical Studies and English with Study Abroad
UCAS code: QQV4
BA Classical Studies and English with Employment Experience
UCAS code: QQSV
BA Classical Studies and English with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: Q Q6V

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/classics/classics-modlang:
BA Classical Studies and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA Classical Studies and Modern Languages (3 years)
You may choose one language to study alongside Classical Studies.
I love languages, so to be able to learn alongside other people who are also passionate about the same thing is really motivating.
I especially love the Russian department, because it is so small and friendly, and we know all the teachers really well.
They understand our difficulties with learning such a challenging language and give us great advice.
Read more from Charis
Charis
BA Spanish and Russian
30 credits of compulsory Classical Studies modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 60 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 30 credits of Modern Languages modules).
a select either CLA1005 or CLA1006; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
c select 30 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
d select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules for the year.
60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 30 credits of Modern Languages modules).
e - select either CLA2005 or CLA2006; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
f - You must select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
g - select 30 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
h - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM/HAS-coded modules listed below for the year.
It is your responsibility to ensure that credit for SML modules can be counted towards the language of your study, where this is necessary for your credit count.
i - You must take one of these modules.
60 credits of optional Classical Studies modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
j - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
k - select 60 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
l - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; you may select a maximum of 15 credits of the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year, these are additional to SML3015.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/classics/classics-philosophy:
BA Classical Studies and Philosophy - 2026 entry
Top 10 in the UK for Philosophy
9th in The Complete University Guide 2026
I love it, I think it’s the best course, best decision I’ve ever made.
It’s a lot more independent working, but I’ve learnt how I work best and how to motivate myself.
I’ve found the support services incredibly useful.
Read more from Annabel
Annabel
BA Classical Studies
75 credits of compulsory modules (including 30 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 45 credits of Philosophy modules), 60 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 15 credits of Philosophy modules).
b - select at least 45 credits of compulsory Philosophy modules from this list.
c - select 45 credits of Classical Studies modules from this list.
select 0-15 credits of Philosophy PHL1xxx modules from this list.
Philosophy modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=philosophy
e - select 45-60 credits of compulsory Philosophy modules from this list.
f - select 0-30 credits from this list of Classical Studies optional modules.
select 0-15 credits from this list of Philosophy PHL2xxx optional modules.
30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30-60 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 30-60 credits of Philosophy modules)
g - You must select either CLA3009 or PHL3040 (you cannot take both modules).
If you select CLA3009, you must take 60 credits of options from the Philosophy PHL3xxx list.
If you select PHL3040, you must take 60 credits of options from the Classical Studies list.
BA Classical Studies and Philosophy with Study Abroad
UCAS code: QV8M
BA Classical Studies and Philosophy with Employment Experience
UCAS code: QV6M
BA Classical Studies and Philosophy with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: Q V7M

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/classics/religion:
BA Classical Studies and Religion - 2026 entry
Stage 1: 60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules (30 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 30 credits of Theology and Religion modules)
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of Classical Studies and Religion theory, concepts, and texts.
A - select the compulsory Classical Studies module running this year - either CLA1005 or CLA1006 (the modules run in alternate years).
Select both Theology and Religion modules THE1121 and THE1123.
select 30 credits of Classical Studies option modules and 30 credits of Religion option modules.
30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 60 credits of Theology and Religion modules)
B - select the compulsory Classical Studies module running this year - either CLA2005 or CLA2006 (the modules run in alternate years).
There are no compulsory Theology and Religion modules in stage 2.
select 30 credits of Classical Studies option modules, and 60 credits of Theology and Religion option modules.
120 credit compulsory placement year module
30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30-60 credits of Classical Studies modules, and 30-60 credits of Theology and Religion modules)
C - You must select one of the Dissertation modules of  either CLA3009 or THE3030 (you cannot take both).
If you select CLA3009, you also take 30 credits of Classical Studies options, and 60 credits of option modules from Theology and Religion.
If you select THE3030, you also take a 30 credit Theology option module, and 60 credits of option modules from Classical Studies.
BA Classical Studies and Religion with Study Abroad
UCAS code: QV91
BA Classical Studies and Religion with Employment Experience
UCAS code: QV92
BA Classical Studies and Religion with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: QV93
View all Classics and Ancient History courses View all Theology and Religion courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/languages/latin:
BA Modern Languages and Latin - 2026 entry
BA Modern Languages and Latin (3 years)
Choose our 4-year course to spend a year in a country whose language originates from Latin, studying at a partner university or in employment
Study Latin alongside one of the other seven major languages, all top 20 in UK
The Modern Languages and Latin degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each, worth a total of 120 credits each year.
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of language, theory and concepts of your chosen modern language and Latin.
30 credits of compulsory Latin modules, 15 credits of compulsory Classical Studies modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 15 credits of optional Classical Studies modules, and 30 credits of optional Modern Languages modules).
a - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
b - select 15-30 credits of Text and Context modules from this list.
c - select 0-15 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
d - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
30 credits of compulsory Latin modules, 15 credits of compulsory Classical Studies modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 15 credits of optional Classical Studies modules, and 30 credits of optional Modern Languages modules.
e - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
f - select 15-30 credits of Text and Context modules from this list.
g - select 0-15 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
h - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
International Placement (if taken)
30 credits of compulsory Latin modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 15 credits of optional Classical Studies modules, and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
k - select 30 credits from this list of optional Classical Studies modules.
l - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; you may select a maximum of 15 credits of the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year, these are additional to SML3015.
You will be assessed in a variety of ways but primarily through coursework and exams (essays, source commentaries, research exercises, oral presentations), and online assessment (for language and culture modules).
​
Modern Languages graduates from the University of Exeter have an excellent reputation with graduate recruiters and compete very successfully in the employment market.
You will develop skills that are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers.
Alongside written and verbal fluency in your chosen language(s), you’ll develop skills in:
In an increasingly globalised world, language skills are highly sought after by employers, and can help you stand out from the crowd.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computerscience/comsci:
BSc Computer Science - 2026 entry
A levels: AAA - AAB IB: 36/666-34/665 BTEC: DDD
A levels: AAA - AAB IB: 36/666-34/665 BTEC: DDD
Discover Computer Science at the University of Exeter.
Top 20 in the UK for Computer Science
18th in the Complete University Guide 2026
Excellent facilities spanning a wide range of machine types and software ecosystems alongside world-class computer science labs
Partner to the Alan Turing Institute
Top 15 in the UK for graduate prospects
Joint 12th for graduate prospects for Computer Science in the Complete University Guide 2026 (94%)
Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for Incorporated Engineer and partially meeting the academic requirement for a Chartered Engineer.
It also continues with CITP accreditation: ‘Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional'.
RIITech: The ‘with Industrial Placement’ variant of the BSc Computer Science is accredited by the BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an IT Technician.
I’ve always had an interest in computers and thoroughly enjoy problem solving.
Thanks to the flexibility of my course I’ve been able to tailor my degree to what I enjoy and my career goals.
I’m now working for Sainsbury’s in their technical team.
Read more from Scott
Scott
Studied BSc Computer Science at the University of Exeter
Preparation for entry to Year 1 of an undergraduate degree:
Your first year gives you a solid foundation in computer science.
It includes an introduction to procedural and object-oriented programming, system architectures and professional issues of computing.
Mathematics modules develop the skills you'll need for later modules in computer science and artificial intelligence.
The second year includes exposure to rigorous software design and development best practice, together with information systems and networks.
In your final year everything you have learnt in your Computer Science studies comes together in a significant piece of individual project work in which you'll research, design and implement a substantial software system.
Optional modules allow you to tailor your degree to your specific interests.
If you are studying ‘with Year in Industry’ you will spend the third year of your four year degree on placement and carry out a 120 credit module.
For more Information about the ‘with Year in Industry’ programme, please see the course variants .
Computer Science BSc with Industrial Placement
UCAS code - I401
This four-year variant includes a paid placement in business or industry for the duration of your third year, working on a substantial project and gaining first-hand experience of the practical application of computer science.
The placement gives you the opportunity to put into practice some of the things you will have learned in the first two years and to enter your final year with the insights from your practical experience in the field.
An industrial placement gives you a proven employment track record and additional confidence when searching for your first graduate position – both should help to make you highly attractive to employers and the placement companies often offer employment after graduation.
A full year’s work placement, undertaken as part of your course.
Your degree takes an extra year to complete, and the words ‘with Industrial Placement’ appear in your degree title for future employers to see.
Yes, your industrial placement year counts as 120 credits of your degree.
If you spend a full year on a work placement, you will pay a reduced tuition fee of 20 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
Visit the Tuition Fees page for more information.
Yes, placements are paid with salaries varying according to role and employer.
You can apply directly through UCAS using the UCAS code above for BSc Computer Science with Industrial Placement.
We make use of a variety of teaching styles, including lectures, seminars, workshops and tutorials.
Most modules involve two or three lectures per week, so you would typically have about 10 lectures each week.
In addition, workshops and tutorials support and develop what you’ve learnt in lectures and enable you to discuss the lecture material and coursework in more detail.
You’ll have over 15 hours of direct contact time per week with your tutors and you will be expected to supplement your lectures with independent study.
We’re actively engaged in introducing new methods of learning and teaching, including increasing use of interactive computer-based approaches to learning through our virtual learning environment, where the details of all modules are stored in an easily navigable website.
We aim to provide a supportive environment where students and staff work together in an informal and friendly atmosphere.
The department has a student-focused approach to teaching, whereby all members of staff deal with questions on an individual basis.
We operate an open door policy, so it is easy to consult individual members of staff or to fix appointments with them via email.
As a friendly group of staff, you will get to know us well during your time here.
We believe every student benefits from being taught by experts active in research and practice.
You will discuss the very latest ideas, research discoveries and new technologies in seminars and in the field and you will become actively involved in a research project yourself.
All our academic staff are active in internationally-recognised scientific research across a wide range of topics.
You will also be taught by leading industry practitioners.
Modules are assessed by a combination of continuous assessment through small practical exercises, project work, essay writing, presentations and exam.
A degree from Exeter is highly valued by employers.
Management and personal skills are built into our programmes and our students take advantage of the wide range of extracurricular and personal development opportunities offered by the University, including volunteering and playing an active role in student societies.
Our staff are active in developing our programmes and services to improve the employability of our students.
We also have a dedicated Careers Consultant who provides career workshops tailored to computer science, as well as support in job applications and interview skills.
The Career Zone run several careers fairs throughout the year which are particularly successful in putting major UK employers in touch with Exeter students.
Relevant employers visit the department from the first year to meet and hold mock interviews with students, with the aim of helping them to develop their career ideas at an early enough stage to help with module choices and placement decisions
Career opportunities for computer scientists are limitless and graduates can be found working in the private and public sector in areas such as software engineering, health, communications, education, life sciences, physical sciences, finance and manufacturing.
Computer scientists from Exeter have a reputation as being articulate, numerate, problem solvers, who typically claim great job satisfaction, a good salary and a huge range of career possibilities.
Our single honours Computer Science degrees explore more than simply how computers and software work.
They focus on the wider context within which the subject must operate; from the precise technical details to the social, scientific and industrial application.
By combining logical thinking with key mathematical skills, they will lead to a wide variety of careers which require graduates who understand the science behind computer technology.
As an Exeter Computer Science and IT graduate you may find yourself working with business IT systems, the web, mobile communications, games technology, or in the management and development of the safety-critical systems that control planes, trains and power stations.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Computer Science but also in wider fields.
Relevant employers visit the department from the first year to meet and hold mock interviews with students, with the aim of helping them to develop their career ideas at an early enough stage to help with module choices and placement decisions.
View all Computer Science courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computerscience/comscimsci:
MSci Computer Science - 2026 entry
Discover Computer Science at the University of Exeter
Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
The 4-year MSci Computer Science programme provides the opportunity to study more advanced material and obtain a higher-level qualification.
In your third year you'll complete a significant piece of individual project work in which you'll research, design and implement a substantial software system.
In your final year everything you have learnt in your Computer Science studies comes together as you undertake an individual research project and group development project.
Advanced computer science modules allow you to further develop skills in your chosen area of interest.
As part of the four-year degree, you can choose to take an optional Commercial and Industrial Experience module during the vacation before the third year (subject to availability).
This very rewarding opportunity allows you to gain paid work experience while earning credits towards your degree programme.
Following the placement you can report on your experience which, alongside a report from the employer, enables you to count your experience as a third-year optional module.
We have excellent links with employers and can provide assistance in finding suitable employment.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computerscience/comsci-foundation:
BSc Computer Science with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Eligibility: UK ( Home Fee ) students who fulfil the criteria as shown within our eligibility criteria below
We believe that fair access to higher education is a fundamental enabler for social mobility and are committed to delivering this through our education.
We aim to widen participation and raise attainment - bridging gaps in retention, progression and success - to ensure our students enjoy the best possible outcome.
In support of the University’s Access and Participation Plan this course is only open to UK domiciled students who meet our contextual offer eligibility criteria, or are classed as Mature Students, and who may not have met the entry requirements for first-year entry or have not been able to take A-level Mathematics alongside a BTEC L3 Extended Diploma.
Check if you are eligible to join this programme on our Contextual offers webpages.
Open days
Excellent facilities spanning a wide range of machine types and software ecosystems
We’re really proud to launch our foundation programme pathways which demonstrate our commitment to widening access to our computer science, data science, engineering, maths, physics and natural science programmes.
For any student who has not had the opportunity to demonstrate their true ability in A-level maths, whether through educational disadvantage, exceptional circumstances or making the wrong choices, this programme offers an alternative route into STEM at Exeter.
Professor Nicola King
Associate Dean for Education
For more information on how applications are assessed and when decisions are released, please see: After you apply .
In support of the University’s Access and Participation Plan this course is only open to UK domiciled students who meet our contextual offer eligibility criteria and who may not have met the entry requirements for first year entry or have not been able to take A-level Mathematics alongside a BTEC L3 Extended Diploma.
Check if you are eligible to join this programme on our contextual offer webpages .
The Foundation Year is part of an integrated 4 year undergraduate degree programme.
The information below relates to the Foundation Year only.
Please see BSc Computer Science for further information and details of the modules available on the degree programme you can progress to from the Foundation Year.
The course comprises of 90 credits of core maths, to elevate students’ knowledge to A-level grade A standard, plus some aspects of the further maths curriculum, but concentrating on developing core mathematical skills.
The other 30 credits comprise a project that includes key skills for university study.
Foundation year
Exeter’s foundation has been created to support and prepare students for the challenges of an undergraduate degree in Data Science, Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics, Natural Sciences or Engineering.
The programme has been designed for students with the passion and aptitude for a degree, but who may have missed our standard entry criteria for various reasons, and is a call to widen participation and increase access to higher education.
Dr Houry Melkonian
Foundation Year Course Director
UK students: £9,535 per year
The way you learn at university may be different from what you have experienced before.
Depending on your course, you may encounter a variety of teaching methods.
In the Foundation year of this programme, you will experience a range of teaching and learning activities including lectures, workshops, tutorials, group projects/presentations and/or seminars.
The mathematics modules at this stage comprise of 90 credits in total, while 'Science: Skills and Culture' module is 30 credits.
You should expect your total workload to average about 40 hours per week during term time including guided independent study hours.
Visit our course pages for details of the Learning and Teaching methods on the BSc Data Science degree programme for the subsequent years of your chosen degree programme.
You will benefit from teaching by academic staff comprising of internationally-recognised experts active across a wide range of topics in your chosen degree programme.
As you progress through your degree, you will hear about the latest research and have opportunities (for example, the independent research project) to become involved in a research project yourself.
You will be allocated a personal tutor who will be happy to advise or put you in touch with support services, and we encourage you to discuss subject related questions with tutors and lecturers who advertise regular office hours.
Extra support is available, for example through our peer mentor scheme, and we have an active student-staff liaison committee.
Modules are assessed by a combination of summative assessments.
You must pass your foundation year and meet the progression criteria to progress to Year 1 of the BSc Data Science programme, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.
Management and personal skills are built into our programmes and our students take advantage of the wide range of extracurricular and personal development opportunities offered by the University, including  volunteering and playing an active role in student societies.
Our staff are active in developing our programmes and services to improve the employability of our students.
We also have a dedicated Careers Consultant who provides career workshops tailored to computer science, as well as support in job applications and interview skills.
The Career Zone run several careers fairs throughout the year which are particularly successful in putting major UK employers in touch with Exeter students.
Relevant employers visit the department from the first year to meet and hold mock interviews with students, with the aim of helping them to develop their career ideas at an early enough stage to help with module choices and placement decisions.
Whether you pay home fees depends on whether you meet certain criteria such as having ‘settled status’ in the UK.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computerscience/comscimaths:
BSc Computer Science and Mathematics - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABB-ABC IB: 32/655-30/555 BTEC: DDM
with Industrial Placement
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 724061
The second year includes exposure to rigorous software development and software engineering best practice, together with information systems.
You'll choose from research-led modules in computer science and mathematics, and can also select modules from another discipline at the University.
In your final year everything you have learnt in your studies comes together in a significant piece of individual project work in which you'll research, design and implement a substantial software system.
A wide range of optional modules allows you to tailor your degree to your specific interests.
For more information about the ‘with Year in Industry’ programme, please see the course variants .
Computer Science and Mathematics BSc with Industrial Placement
UCAS code - GG4C
This programme includes a year’s paid industrial placement in your third year.
You will work on a substantial project and gain first-hand experience of the practical application of computer science.
This placement will give you invaluable work experience, significantly enhancing your employability, whilst developing your practical skills.
Professional experience not only develops your CV but helps you to determine your career aspirations.
All our degrees involve a combination of teaching methods, including lectures, seminars, workshops and tutorials.
Most modules in mathematics involve three one-hour lectures per week, so you would typically have 12 lectures per week.
In the first year there are tutorial classes for each module every week and example classes every fortnight, except for modules involving computing or project work.
Thus in the first year you would typically have around 16 contact hours per week.
In addition to this, you are expected to spend about 20 hours per week in private study.
The tutorials and exercise classes enable you to discuss the lecture material and coursework problems.
Further support is available at lunchtime mathematics surgeries run by postgraduate students.
You are encouraged to discuss any mathematical problems or questions that may arise with the lecturer.
All lecturers have advertised office hours when they are available to provide help.
Working through examples and solving problems is a vital part of learning mathematics so coursework is set in each module.
We're actively engaged in introducing new methods of learning and teaching, including increasing use of interactive computer-based approaches to learning through our virtual learning environment, where the details of all modules are stored in an easily navigable website.
Assessment for all degrees is through a combination of examinations and coursework.
Examinations are the more important part of the process, but the assessed coursework will help you to work steadily throughout your degree.
This is particularly important in Mathematics where the subject matter develops logically from fairly simple beginnings.
Written examinations for mathematics modules are held in January and May/June of the first and second years and in May/June of each subsequent year.
Most modules also have either a mid-term test or coursework contributing to the assessment.
Coursework typically contributes 20% to the assessment of all modules.
In the third year several modules allow you to undertake further coursework to contribute to your overall degree classification.
Exeter has an excellent reputation with graduate recruiters and a strong employment record.
Our graduates excel in specialist computer science fields and across a broad range of other sectors.
We offer a very wide range of opportunities for you to develop the skills employers are looking for, including industrial placements and study abroad.
Visit our Career and employability webpages to find out more.
Mathematics has long influenced the development of computer science, and the rapid growth of computing power has led to the development of techniques and algorithms which have in turn influenced the mathematics community, making this joint degree a natural combination.
In addition graduates from the programme are well prepared for careers requiring either or both of the disciplines.
There has never been a greater need for experts in computing.
From the complex IT systems used in modern businesses to sophisticated online gaming experiences, computers are a familiar characteristic of the modern world.
This makes for a fascinating range of careers that require the technical expertise of a computer scientist (someone who understands the science behind computer technology).
As an Exeter Computing graduate you may find yourself working with business IT systems, the web, mobile communications or games technology, or in the management and development of the safety-critical systems that control aeroplanes, trains and nuclear power stations.
During your time with us you’ll develop your problem-solving skills, your technical competence and your ability to analyse and reflect on issues relating to computer technology.
These are essential skills whether you wish to work for a leading computing company developing new technologies, enter the world of business and finance, or if you would like to use your degree in a different role where you can use your abilities to analyse and solve problems.
As part of the three-year degree, you can choose to take an optional Commercial and Industrial Experience module during the vacation before the third year (subject to availability).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computerscience/digital-media-zjut:
BSc Digital Media Technology (at ZJUT, China) - 2026 entry
ZJUT, China
Gaokao: At least 80%
English subject exam: At least 80%
Please note: This programme is based in China and is part of the Joint Education Institute with Zhejiang University of Technology (ZJUT) and is open to ZJUT applicants only.
This programme is subject to Ministry of Education approval.
Applications are not currently being accepted.
Join a unique programme that brings together the academic strengths of both the UK and China.
Through our partnership with the Zhejiang University of Technology (ZJUT), you can study for a University of Exeter degree without leaving China - combining the global perspective of a top UK university with the local expertise and reputation of one of China’s leading institutions.
BSc Digital Media Technology is a joint programme that offers high-quality teaching, a carefully designed curriculum, and strong student support, all shaped by Exeter’s academic standards.
You’ll gain more than just a degree - you’ll develop a way of thinking that’s valued worldwide, giving you an edge whether you pursue a career in China or internationally.
Students are selected based their scores from the National College Entrance Examination (Gaokao) in China.
T he typical offer would be a final average grade of at least 600 out of a total 750, i.e.
80%, and at least 80% for the English subject exam.
Find out more about ZJUT
Please also see our guidance on essential documentation required for an initial decision on taught programme applications .
The required test scores for this course fall under Profile .
The field of digital media technologies is constantly changing – and so are the skills needed to shape it.
Through this exciting programme you will develop key mathematical and computing knowledge alongside the essential critical and creative skills needed to understand the complex digital media environments of today, and the possibilities of tomorrow.
You will explore the mathematical, computing, critical and creative skills that underpin current computer gaming, VR/AR/ and FX development, social media and digital media platforms and delivery.
You'll also develop critical competences in research and innovation in these areas and their contribution to sustainable and socially beneficial growth in a global context.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/computerscience/comscimathsmsci:
MSci Computer Science and Mathematics - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAA-AAB IB: 36/666-34/665 BTEC: DDD
The 4-year MSci Computer Science and Mathematics programme provides the opportunity to study more advanced material and obtain a higher-level qualification.
Graduates of this programme are able to tackle a wide range of problems, making them highly employable.
Your first year gives you a solid foundation in computer science and mathematics.
Your group project in year two introduces key aspects of software engineering to you in a practical way, while a choice of optional modules allows you to tailor your degree towards your preferences in Mathematics and/or Computer Science.
Elective (free choice) modules can be taken from any discipline in the University subject to approval, pre-requisites, timetabling and availability.
In year 3 you carry out an extensive computing research project in which you'll research, design and implement a substantial software system.
The final year includes a substantial project involving elements of both Computer Science and Mathematics, as well as a range of advanced optional modules in the two subjects.
Visit our Careers and Employability webpages to find out more.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/datascience/databsc:
BSc Data Science - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAA-AAB IB: 36/666-34/665 BTEC: DDD
Discover Data Science at the University of Exeter.
Home to Exeter's Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
You can combine your preparation studies with your BSc Data Science degree into a single four-year study plan - BSc Data Science with International Foundation Year .
This is a single study plan, meaning you can apply for one visa for the full duration of the program.
You will continue directly to Year 1 of your undergraduate degree after your international foundation year, provided you meet the academic requirements after the first year of your study plan.
When I first arrived in the UK from India, I was thrilled to dive into the world of data science.
Exeter caught my eye because it's one of the few universities offering undergrad studies in this field.
The blend of math s , stats, and computer science was just what I was looking for, especially since I plan to speciali s e further in my M asters.
Shaira
BSc Data Science is an innovative interdisciplinary course designed with industry and aimed at those wishing to work or research in the data science sector.
The course covers the core areas of mathematics and computer science, as well as introducing you to applied data science and social context.
Research projects will allow you to develop research and project management skills in an area of interest, using real-world datasets, guided by a leading academic supervisor.
In your first year, you will be introduced to the fundamental technical and professional skills needed to successfully engage with machine learning, artificial intelligence and data science.
You will gain core knowledge and practical skills relating to data structures and algorithms and will practise the techniques and applications of AI and machine learning.
In year 2 you will gain theoretical and practical understanding of some of the more advanced techniques in machine learning and data science.
You will also learn how data science is linked to challenges in real-world social issues.
Through lectures and practical exercises, you will develop vital professional and interpersonal skills needed to work effectively in the mathematical and digital sector, including project management and teamwork.
If you are studying ‘with Industrial Placement’ you will spend the third year of your four-year degree on placement and carry out a 120 credit module.
For more information, please see the course variants .
Your final year will comprise group and individual work as you carry out your final year project.
Optional modules allow you to specialise in areas that are most suited to your interests, giving you a strong foothold for future career development.
BSc Data Science with Industrial Placement
UCAS code - GG21
This four-year variant includes a paid placement in business or industry for the duration of your third year, working on a substantial project and gaining first-hand experience of the practical application of data science.
You can apply directly through UCAS using the UCAS code above for BSc Data Science with Industrial Placement.
UK students: £9,535 per year International students: £29,800 per year
There is an established strong market demand for suitably skilled data scientists and data science skills are increasingly being sought across the sectors, particularly by the finance and accounting industries, supermarkets, online retailers such as Amazon, and the NHS.
This Data Science course has been developed with partner employers, including IBM, the Met Office, South West Water, Black Swan and Oxygen House and has been designed to deliver skills that are most valued by employers.
Modules will use the employers’ methods, platforms, software and data, to ensure that they are fully reflective of workplace practice.
Throughout your studies you will conduct individual and group projects using real world data sets.
This course will prepare you to be an outstanding dynamic problem solver with an excellent technical skillset.
In addition to learning the core principles of Mathematics and Computer Science, you will learn soft skills that employers have told us they are looking for, such as communication and presentation skills, and the ability to work effectively in a team.
The inclusion of individual- and group-based project work in every academic year will offer you an opportunity to apply your skills to solve real world problems and prepare you for future employment.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Data Science but also in wider fields.
View all Data Science courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/datascience/datamsci:
MSci Data Science - 2026 entry
A levels: AAA-AAB IB: 36/666-34/665 BTEC: DDD
MSci Data Science is an innovative interdisciplinary course designed with industry and aimed at those wishing to work or research in the data science sector.
You will learn core knowledge and practical skills relating to data structures and algorithms that are commonly applied in this topic area, as well as some of the most common techniques and applications of AI and machine learning.
In your third year, alongside your individual project, you will explore the world of “big data” and its demands for high-performance computing (HPC) to take advantage of modern learning and statistical methods applied to novel datasets.
You will then select optional modules, ensuring you gain a broad range of knowledge across Data Science.
Advanced optional modules allow you to specialise in areas that are most suited to your interests, giving you a strong foothold for future career development.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/programmes/digitalandtechnologysolutions:
Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (BSc) Degree Apprenticeship
Dependent on employer, see How to apply
Excellent facilities spanning a wide range of machine types and software ecosystems, alongside a £3.2 million SWIOT building
Apprentices earn a salary and pay zero tuition fees, meaning they’ll graduate debt-free and enhance their career
Accredited by Tech Partnerships Gold and the British Computer Society
This programme is validated by the Tech Partnership as conforming to the Digital & Technology Solutions Professional apprenticeship standard
Other qualifications of a similar level can be considered.
We would encourage applicants with non-standard qualifications to contact us to discuss their eligibility.
We welcome applications from applicants who are looking to upskill themselves within their role or are looking for a change of career.
Applicants will need a minimum of two years industry experience in a Digital Technology focused role(s).
Applicants with a relevant Level 4 will be assessed on an individual basis.
The Digital and Technology Solutions Degree Apprenticeship does not follow the standard UCAS application process.
Applicants can apply to this programme in addition to making applications to any institution through UCAS.
To gain a place on an apprenticeship applicants must either:
Once an applicant is able to meet one of above options, please get in touch with us via the contact methods listed above to discuss progressing with an application.
View more information here on how to apply .
The work aspect of the degree apprenticeship provides you with experience and mentorship from industry leading experts, further expediting your learning with industry gold standards in your specific field.
Doing the degree apprenticeship fast tracked my career expeditiously.
I have so much more industry knowledge and just a general understanding of the industry climate than if I hadn’t completed the apprenticeship.
BSc Digital and Technology Solutions is a full University of Exeter degree aligned to the Level 6 Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (integrated degree) Apprenticeship.
The programme combines the academic rigour of Exeter’s long tradition of teaching excellence with the achievement of an industry-recognised professional qualification.
Our syllabus is accredited as meeting Tech Industry Gold standards by employer skills body TechSkills , an organisation that provides industry accreditation for digital and technology higher education, creating high quality degrees and degree apprenticeships that meet employer-defined standards.
The programme is also accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered IT Professional and registration as an IT Technician.
Apprentices on the programme will be of a calibre consistent with other University of Exeter programmes.
All apprentices will study the same core modules in their first two and a half years on the programme.
In the third year the apprentice will begin work on their chosen specialism.
The five specialist pathways are:
Programme structure
All modules are compulsory Taught modules at 15 credits each
30 credits work-based learning
Total 90 credits
2 x taught compulsory 15 credit modules 1 x elected specialism 15 credits 45 credits work-based learning
IT consulting 1 Data Analysis 1 Cyber Security 1
1 x elected specialism 15 credits 1 x chosen module 15 credits
60 credits (final project) work-based learning
One day a week of an apprentice's working time will be given over to study.
Our model is designed to be flexible around the needs of apprentices and workloads.
No weekly day-release is required, mitigating disruption of their daily role and ensuring maximum flexibility.
All modules are delivered in a blended learning format with work-based learning elements embedded throughout each stage of the programme:
E-learning elements of the course, including lectures, seminars and online collaborative work, are undertaken through the University’s electronic learning environment and web conferencing platforms.
This will supplement the learning started during residentials, as well as providing academic support for ongoing projects in the workplace.
Termly on-campus teaching blocks, held at the University’s Streatham Campus in Exeter, bring apprentices together from across the country.
During the on campus teaching blocks they will meet with fellow apprentices, wider members of the computer science department and spend time with their academic mentor.
Degree apprenticeship projects are developed with a strong emphasis on the close relationship between the employer and University.
The academic curriculum follows real delivery in the workplace with the day-to-day challenges faced in a work environment informing coursework.
The varied academic content will provide employers with an opportunity to explore areas of the business that may not fall immediately within the apprentice’s role, such as business organisation or IT law.
Our dedicated partnerships team liaise closely with employers throughout the programme; the apprentice will have dedicated mentors to assist and guide them and the employer throughout the whole course of the apprenticeship.
Alongside studying for their level 6 Digital and Technology Solutions Apprenticeship certificate, gained after completing the Knowledge, Skills and behaviours of the apprenticeship standard, apprentices will work towards a BSc in Digital and Technology Solutions.
This degree has been accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT.
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by BCS.
An accredited degree entitles apprentices to professional membership of BCS, which is an important part of the criteria for achieving Chartered IT Professional (CITP) status through the Institute and registration as an IT Technician (RITTech).
Some employers recruit preferentially from accredited degrees, and an accredited degree is likely to be recognised by other countries that are signatories to international accords.
Solid industry experience is what employers look for when recruiting.
As a graduate of a degree apprenticeship programme apprentices will be working in an exciting and relevant job from day one of their studies, meaning when the they’ll have the both the professional and academic experience sought after by employers to drive impact within their organisation.
This programme gives you the opportunity to shape the development of your next-generation employees.
To meet specific employers’ needs, pathways relating to specific role areas are available across five IT specialisms.
Your staff will benefit from gaining extensive professional experience throughout their degree, graduating free of tuition debt into employment.
Our programme is distinctive in the way it minimises disruption to an apprentice’s work and the day to day job they hold with your organisation.
They will implement the skills and knowledge they acquire directly into their position from day one, to not on provide new and innovative tech solutions, but increase productivity and efficiency.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/criminology/criminologybsc:
BSc Criminology - 2026 entry
Top 15 in the UK for Criminology
15th in the Guardian University Guide 2025
To the uninitiated, that can sound extremely daunting, but I am so incredibly grateful for the numerous doors such a skill will open for me.
The large variety of available modules also makes it possible for students to tailor their experience however they wish, with classes ranging from Forensic Science to Terrorism.
Undergraduate student, BSc Criminology
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of criminology and social theory, methods and concepts.
You will take 90 credits of compulsory modules.
You should select a further 30 credits of optional modules (in other words two 15 credit modules).
Examples are listed below.
Available modules will be subject to change each year.
If you choose a study abroad or employment experience placement, this will take place in your third year.
Find out more about placement options.
BSc Criminology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: M901
BSc Criminology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: M907
Our four-year ‘with Employment Experience’ degree allows you to spend your third year carrying out one or more graduate-level work placements, within the UK, as part of your degree.
BSc Criminology with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: M906
You must pass your first year modules in order to proceed but your performance at this level does not count towards your final degree classification
As a BSc Criminology graduate you will have a full range of social science research skills and specific technical skills which will be attractive to employers across a wide spectrum of careers.
The broad range of transferable skills gained on a Criminology degree enable graduates to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:
View all Criminology courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology/crimedatasciencebsc:
BSc Crime and Data Science - 2026 entry
Your first year will introduce you to the basics of Data analysis and programming for the social sciences.
You will learn how data frameworks and methods are used to study crime and policing issues.
Your second and final years build on your programming and research skills.
The increased range of optional modules enables you to tailor your degree to your interests and career ambitions.
In your final year, you will complete a quantitative dissertation enabling you to research an area of interest and apply your data science skills.
Choose 30 credits from this list of optional modules.
Choose 75 credits from this list of optional modules.
a - Students are required to take 30 credits in these modules over Stages 2 and 3.
b - Students are required to take 30 credits in these modules over Stages 2 and 3.
Crime and Data Science with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: M903
Our four-year ‘with Industrial Experience’ degree, offers you the possibility of spending your third year carrying out a graduate-level work placement or placements within the UK as part of your degree.
Crime and Data Science with Study Abroad
UCAS code: M904
For a full list please visit the Study Abroad website.
Please refer to your faculty Study Abroad co-ordinator for further details.
Crime and Data Science with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: M905
Crime and Data Science provides you with an excellent all-round education, combining subject-specific knowledge and expertise with a wide range of transferable skills sought after by employers.
Crime and Data science offers excellent employment opportunities.
As a graduate, you will combine technical skills (programming in Python and R, knowledge of statistical methods, algorithms, crime mapping) and substantive knowledge of the areas where these skills can be applied.
Not only would graduates have possible career paths that include business intelligence and business analytics, data journalism, market research, and social research, but given the applied nature of the programme, you will be able to apply for graduate schemes offered by law enforcement and security practitioners; i.e.
specialist cyber and analytics units of UK police forces, equivalent units for the National Crimes Agency/Europol/Interpol, and graduate analyst roles for the security services.
You will be able to access a range of specific activities such as careers skills sessions and employer-led events, or seek bespoke advice and support from Employability Officers based within Colleges.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology/criminology:
BA Sociology and Criminology - 2026 entry
I really enjoy the topics that I get to study as part of my subject.
I have been able to study modules from education, media and disability to terrorism, war and the criminal and judicial system.
The assessment usually consists of essays on a broad topic so you can really choose what you’re interested in and research and write about it.
The department as a whole has an amazing support system with personal tutors giving 1:1 sessions to be able to talk about anything academic or not.
Undergraduate student, BSc Sociology and Criminology
The BA Sociology and Criminology degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of sociological and criminological theory and concepts.
Your first year will give you an excellent grounding in the theories and application of Sociology with a particular focus on the issues facing the contemporary world such as social inequality, crime, deviance, migration and globalisation.
A - you may pick ONE of these modules
B - this module is core ONLY for students transferring from BSc Criminology in Term 2.
They will not take SPA1000.
30 credits from level 1 SOC options
You may elect to take a maximum of 30 credit options outside of Sociology and Criminology, for example to develop skills attractive to employers such as language proficiency; to examine an issue you’ve covered in one of your Sociology modules from a different disciplinary perspective; or to widen your horizons and challenge yourself intellectually SSI1005 and SSI1006 are recommended optional modules that will provide a basis for being able take modules in later stages to add the Q-Step ‘Proficiency in Applied Data Analysis’ to your degree title.
75 credits of compulsory modules and 45 credits of options.
In the second year you will advance your grasp of sociological and criminological knowledge and methods through a set of compulsory modules.
75 credits of core Sociology and Criminology modules
You will be able to choose 45 credits from a wide range of Sociology and Criminology options covering topics as diverse as counter cultures, health, media, forensic science, war crimes, ethics, addiction and human rights.
Sociology and Criminology modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=sociology
Faculty-wide modules (including SSIxxxx) https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=hass
The centre-point of the final year is the dissertation.
You will also take up to three other specialist modules to create a programme of work fully reflecting your interests.
30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional module
45 credits Level 3 Sociology options
45 credits approved Level 3 Criminology options
BA Sociology and Criminology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: LMH9
BA Sociology and Criminology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: LM40
I have loved studying Criminology over the past four years, and ha ve undertaken exciting classes such as Forensic Science as well as areas of the subject with a more quantitative focus , such as Social Data.
As part of my course , I studie d for a year abroad in Milan , which was also a wonderful experience – I met lifelong friends and had the opportunity to experience a new culture and higher education system for a year!
Read more from Ands
Ands
As a Sociology graduate you will be well prepared for a number of careers including teaching, the media, business, social research, work in the public and charity sectors, and the legal profession.
Throughout your studies you will develop a range of professional, academic and personal skills including:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology/socialdatabsc:
BSc Social Data Science - 2026 entry
With Year in Industry
Your first year introduces you to the basics of programming in Python, the most popular programming language for social data science.
You will also consider social problems such as social inequalities and mobility, pandemics, immigration and social movements and how social data science skills can be applied to these.
The increased range of optional modules enable you to tailor your degree to your interests and career ambitions.
In your final year you will complete a quantitative dissertation enabling you to research an area of interest and apply your data science skills.
Select 30 credits from this list of optional modules.
Other stage 1 options should come from: https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=sociology https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=politics
Select 75 credits from this list of optional modules.
a – Students are required to take 30 credits from these modules over Stages 2 and 3 – SSI2008, SOC2120 Other stage 2 options should come from: https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=sociology https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=politics
Select 90 credits from this list of optional modules.
b – Students are required to take 30 credits from these modules over Stages 2 and 3 – SSI3021, SSI3001, SOC3128 Other Final stage options should come from: https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=sociology https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=politics
UCAS code: L307
UCAS code: L306
UCAS code: L311
Social Data Science provides you with an excellent all-round education, combining subject-specific knowledge and expertise with a wide range of transferable skills sought after by employers.
Social Data science offers excellent employment opportunities.
As a graduate you will combine technical skills (programming in Python and R, knowledge of statistical methods) and substantive knowledge of the areas where these skills can be applied.
The likely career paths include business intelligence and business analytics, data journalism, market research, and social research.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/datascience/data-foundation-bsc:
BSc Data Science with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
We’re really proud to launch our foundation programme pathways which demonstrate our commitment to widening access to our computer science, data science, engineering, maths, physics and natural science programmes.
For any student who has not had the opportunity to demonstrate their true ability in A-level maths, whether through educational disadvantage, exceptional circumstances or making the wrong choices, this programme offers an alternative route into STEM at Exeter.
Please see BSc Data Science for further information and details of the modules available on the degree programme you can progress to from the Foundation Year.
You will be allocated a personal tutor who will be happy to advise or put you in touch with support services, and we encourage you to to discuss subject related questions with tutors and lecturers who advertise regular office hours.
The BSc Data Science course has been developed with partner employers, including IBM, the Met Office, South West Water, Black Swan and Oxygen House and has been designed to deliver skills that are most valued by employers.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/datascience/data-science-zjut:
BSc Data Science (at ZJUT, China) - 2026 entry
Gaokao: At least 80%.
English subject exam: At least 80%.
BSc Data Science is a joint programme that offers high-quality teaching, a carefully designed curriculum, and strong student support, all shaped by Exeter’s academic standards.
Our BSc Data Science programme is an innovative interdisciplinary course aimed at students wishing to work or research in data science.
It covers the core areas of mathematics and computer science and includes modules which introduce you to applied data science (e.g.
machine learning, data structure and algorithm, social networks and text analysis) as well as social context (e.g.
governance, ethics, business applications).
The course will enable you to become an outstanding dynamic problem solver with a strong technical skillset.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will also give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Data Science but also in wider fields.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/drama/drama:
BA Drama - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABB IB: 32/655 BTEC: DDM All entry requirements
A-Level: BBC IB: 28/554 BTEC: DDM-DMM
Top 5 in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
For Drama, Dance and Cinematics
Professional standard performance spaces
State-of-the-art production facilities for video, sound and scenic design
We plan to run optional workshop sessions for our offer holders.
At these workshops, offer holders will have the opportunity to participate in a practical workshop with a member of the Drama team, getting a flavour for the research-led studio practice that we undertake at Exeter and seeing us work in our spacious and high-tech studios.
Offer holders will be contacted directly with invitations for the workshops.
If you have any questions, please contact hums-ugadmissions@exeter.ac.uk .
The first year comprises four core modules.
In the first term you will study a studio-based module and a lecture/seminar-based module, which will introduce you to collaborative creation and global theatre history, respectively.
In the second term your practical work will focus on staging a dramatic text and your other module will equip you to do performance analysis.
120 credits of compulsory Drama modules
The second year comprises all optional modules.
You can take a studio-based module and a seminar module in each term, choosing from a broad range of options.
This is where you can develop your own degree pathway, choosing modules that interest you and that will help you to gain expertise.
You can integrate work experience into your degree in the module HUM2000 Humanities in the Workplace.
120 credits of optional modules - Students can only take one practice module and one Drama seminar module per term.
In your final year you can choose another seminar module and a studio-based module in Term 1, building on what you learned in Year 2 and exploring new areas of interest.
In your second term you will draw on all that you have learned throughout your degree in two core modules.
In these modules you will (a) conduct research and complete an original dissertation in a topic of your choosing from within the field of theatre and performance studies and (b) complete a major practice-based project of your own devising.
60 credits of compulsory Drama modules and 60 credits of optional modules - Students can only take one practice module and one Drama seminar module per term.
BA Drama with Study Abroad
UCAS code: W401
BA Drama with Employment Experience
UCAS code: W402
BA Drama with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: W403
There’s been such a range of modules on my course that I’ve enjoyed, from staging an entire play to working within the community.
Outside of the performances I do for my degree, I’ve particularly enjoyed getting involved in the theatre societies at Exeter.
I’m currently producing an original musical to take to the Edinburgh Fringe in the summer and have directed other shows in the past as well.
Through the opportunities to explore different routes in the theatre industry, I’m going to be graduating with a clear idea of what I want to do with my future that I didn’t have when I arrived in my first year.
Elsie
We teach mainly through studio sessions, which means you will practise the subject as you learn.
At the start of the programme, the emphasis is on group collaborative work which becomes the basis for the development of your individual interests and skills.
As well as attending sessions and writing essays and assignments, you will be expected to deliver presentations and lead workshops.
We encourage presentation work because it involves you actively in the teaching and learning process as well as developing important life skills such as good verbal and visual communication and effective interaction with other people.
There are currently no written exams for Single Honours Drama students.
The assessments in the second year and final year will contribute to your final degree classification.
Our facilities include two digital media suites and upgraded technical facilities.
Teaching that is inspired by research ensures lectures are up-to-date and relevant; you will benefit from access to the latest thinking, equipment and resources.
All staff teach second and third year options which are linked to their own interests, including areas such as theories of actor training, non-Western performance, 20th and 21st century theatre practitioners, site-specific performance, applied performance, gender and performance, theatre history, music theatre, arts management and the politics of culture.
You will have access to an academic tutor who is available for advice and support throughout your studies.
If you achieve at least 60 credits in a language via our Language Centre you may be able to have the words ‘with proficiency in’ and the language added to your degree title.
Studying Drama will equip you with valuable skills for graduate-level work in a great range of sectors.
Alongside your performance skills, you will learn to critically engage with the social, historical and cultural contexts surrounding theatre.
Through studio-based work, you will become a highly capable communicator, who will be able to adapt to individual and teamwork scenarios.
You will also develop a range of professional transferable skills in time management, team-working, accurate note taking, research and IT.
In addition, you’ll gain valuable critical, analytical and communication skills.
The services offered by the Humanities careers and employability team are complimentary to the services offered by our central Career Zone, where you can participate in practical sessions to develop your skills; access paid internships and volunteering opportunities; explore postgraduate study options; meet prospective employers; get one-to-one advice and learn how to secure the right job for you.
Our graduates progress to a broad range of job roles: Here are just a few examples of what our recent graduates are doing now:
View all Drama courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/drama/dramafilm:
BA Drama and Film & Television Studies - 2026 entry
Access to internationally acclaimed actors, directors and film critics via events such as ‘Creative Dialogues’ lecturs
World-class film research resources, including The Bill Douglas Cinema Museum
The largest university library collection in the UK
My degree means I get the best of both courses with a combination of Drama and Film modules.
I hadn’t done film before coming to university but the lectures are accessible for anybody who wants to study film.
I actually applied to do straight Drama at Exeter, but in my gap year I decided to do Drama and Film & Television Studies and I am very glad I did.
Interpretive Acting in second year has been my favourite drama module so far.
It was great to learn a range of acting skills from a very knowledgeable and experienced professor who helped us start to create our own acting methodology.
In Film, I have been learning about different film theories and how to analyse film.
Read more from Francis
Francis
BA Drama and Film & Television Studies
60 credits of compulsory Drama modules and 60 credits of compulsory Film Studies modules
60 credits of optional Drama modules, and 60 credits of optional Film Studies modules.
a - select 30-60 credits from this list of Drama modules - students can only take one 30-credit seminar module and one 30-credit practice module in Term 1 or Term 2.
b - select 30-60 credits from this list of Film Studies modules.
Stage 3:  0-30 credits of compulsory Film & Television modules, 0-30 credits of compulsory Drama modules, 30-60 credits of optional Film & Television modules, and 30-60 credits of optional Drama modules.
c - select a Dissertation in either Drama or Film Studies: DRA3094 or EAF3514 or EAF3516 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
select 30-60 credits from this list of Drama modules.
If you select EAF3514 or EAF3516 as your Dissertation, you must select 60 credits of options from the Drama list.
select 30-60 credits from this list of Film Studies modules.
If you select DRA3094 as your Dissertation, you must select 60 credits of options from the Film Studies modules list.
BA Drama and Film & Television Studies with Study Abroad
UCAS code: W405
BA Drama and Film & Television Studies with Employment Experience
UCAS code: W406
BA Drama and Film & Television Studies with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: W407
The services offered by the careers and employability team are complimentary to the services offered by our central Career Zone , where you can participate in practical sessions to develop your skills; access paid internships and volunteering opportunities; explore postgraduate study options; meet prospective employers; get one-to-one advice and learn how to secure the right job for you.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english/engdrama:
BA English and Drama - 2026 entry
Top 10 in the Russell Group for student satisfaction in all 7 themes
National Student Survey 2024: English
I love the flexibility of my joint honours English and Drama course.
There are a wealth of optional modules to choose from which means I am always studying something that I truly want to learn about whilst pursuing my passions.
I feel privileged to be taught by so many outstanding lecturers who are always there to offer guidance and support, pushing me to achieve and challenging me to be the best I can be.
Read more from Olivia
Olivia
BA English and Drama
45 credits of compulsory English modules, 60 credits of compulsory Drama modules and 15 credits of optional English modules.
a - You must select 15 credits from this list of optional English modules; EAS1040 is only available in Term 2 to Combined Honours students.
60 credits of optional English modules and 60 credits of optional Drama modules.
b - select 60 credits from this list of optional Drama modules - Students can only take one practice module and one Drama seminar module.
c - select 60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
0-30 credits of compulsory English modules, 0-30 credits of compulsory Drama modules, 30-60 credits of optional English modules, and 30-60 credits of optional Drama modules.
d - select a Dissertation in either Drama or English: DRA3094 or EAS3003 or EAS3122 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
if selecting EAS3003 or EAS3122, select 60 credits from this list of optional Drama modules.
if selecting DRA3094, select 60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
BA English and Drama with Study Abroad
UCAS code: WQ35
BA English and Drama with Employment Experience
UCAS code: WQ36
BA English and Drama with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: WQ37
Students in the Bill Douglas Cinema Museum
We are exceptionally lucky to have some fantastic facilities and resources on the Streatham Campus.
We have Special Collections relating to writers such as Agatha Christie, Daphne du Maurier, and William Golding, and we integrate these into our teaching so students can share the excitement we have when discovering new insights from manuscripts, letters, and business papers.
Our unique film and popular culture resource, contains items going back hundreds of years.
We regularly take students into its archives and think about the study of literature in relation to visual texts.
Digital Humanities is increasingly important in all areas of humanities research, including history, archaeology, literatures and languages.
This research space enables the examination, preservation and analysis of historical, literary and visual material.
Facilities in the lab include:
You will be taught by internationally respected research-active staff.
We use a wide variety of techniques and approaches to help you learn and get the most out of your degree.
Our teaching methods make full use of seminars, studio sessions, study groups, workshops, lectures, and web-based learning.
In English, all our modules centre the learning experience on seminars, involving groups of between 10 and 20 students, typically running for two hours.
In Drama, you will be involved in studio-based learning, typically in 3-hour studio sessions of 10-20 students, in each year of the degree.
At the start of the programme the emphasis is on collaborative group work which becomes the basis for development of your individual interests and skills later on.
Option modules in your second and third years allow you to specialise in what most interests you.
You will be assessed in all years through a variety of assessment methods.
Assessment in English is through a mixture of methods that includes essays, examinations and group presentation work.
The ratio of formal examination to coursework is on average 40:60.
Assessment in Drama includes continuous assessment, essay, performance and portfolio, or viva interview.
Most work is assessed as coursework through studio practice, seminar and essay and there are currently no formal examinations for Drama modules.
We provide an exciting range of special lectures and seminars by visiting academics and renowned writers, actors and film directors.
In addition to your academic work, the student-run English Society organises book and poetry readings, film screenings and social events, providing an opportunity to meet students who share a love of literature, culture and the arts.
Students from the English department are always active on the University student newspapers, radio and TV station and in the University’s drama groups.
With practical modules on offer and opportunity to undertake professional placements, a degree in English will give you plenty of opportunity to develop your professional portfolio which will give you the skills and experience needed to be successful in your chosen career.
An English degree puts you in a great position to succeed in a range of careers.
Oral and written communication is at the heart of our programme and you will learn to present your ideas in a variety of formats.
You will also develop strong research and analytical skills and the ability to problem solve and make informed decisions.
Through a balance of independent study and teamwork you will learn to manage your time and workload effectively.
Our students have progressed to a broad range of work sectors including education, arts management, publishing, journalism, marketing, finance and events management, working for companies such as:
Recent Graduates are now working as*:
Recent Graduates are now working for*:
Other recent graduates have progressed to postgraduate courses in:
* This information has been taken from the Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) Surveys 14/15, 15/16, 16/17 and 17/18 .
View all English courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geology/engineering:
BSc Engineering Geology and Geotechnics - 2026 entry
3rd in the UK for Geology
Top 5 in the UK for Earth and Marine Sciences
4th in The Guardian University Guide 2025
Top 50 in the world for Geology
Our programmes are accredited by The Geological Society which is the first step on the ladder to Chartered Geologist status after graduation.
This degree has also been accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) under licence from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council as: 1.
fully satisfying the educational base for an Incorporated Engineer (IEng).
partially satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
A programme of accredited further learning will be required to complete the educational base for CEng.
See www.iom3.org for further information.
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by the Engineering Council in the UK Standard for Professional Engineering Competence (UK-SPEC).
Accreditation is awarded for a maximum of 5 years under each assessment exercise.
The dates applicable to the current accreditation of this degree programme can be viewed on the Engineering Council list of accredited degrees: www.engc.org.uk
* Accepted A-Level science subjects include: Biology/Human Biology^; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths^; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
^If more than one of these is taken they would only count as one 'science' but could count as two A-Levels towards our general requirements.
I knew I really wanted a degree which combined classroom learning with fieldwork.
Cornwall is the perfect place for this, it has amazing geology in some spectacular locations and really lets you put everything you’re learning in the labs into practice in the field.
Read more from Sadie
Sadie
Studying BSc Engineering Geology and Geotechnics at the University of Exeter
During your first year, which is shared with all Geology students, you will gain a solid foundation in geology and the geosciences.
You will undertake nine one-day field classes to iconic locations across Cornwall during terms 1 and 2, and attend a one-week residential field class in Pembrokeshire during early May.
In Year 2, you will further develop core geological skills as well as your ability to collect and analyse geological data.
Fieldwork includes seven one-day field classes, a residential field course in Devon and Dorset, and training in geological mapping on the Isle of Skye.
A key aspect of year three teaching is its flexibility: in addition to the core modules you get to tailor your geological development to the topics which interest you most.
The optional modules you’ll be choosing from cover a selection of continually-evolving subjects tackling a variety of global environmental challenges.
The ‘Engineering Geology field course’ provides an opportunity to examine an outstanding area of geology famous for its tectonic and mining history, and typically cycles between Spain and Cyprus.
All our Geology degree programmes provide a wealth of practical experience of working in the field at amazing locations across the UK and abroad.
The first year includes a six-day residential field course in Pembrokeshire along with nine one-day field-classes in Cornwall.
The second year includes 34 days of fieldwork, in locations that include Cornwall, Devon, Dorset and the Isle of Skye in Scotland.
The third year includes a geological field course in Cyprus, Italy or southern Spain.
Fieldwork is assessed through field notebooks, technical reports, and practical field-based assignments.
For more information see our fieldwork pages .
Learning and teaching are delivered through a combination of lectures, ‘hands on’ practical classes, seminars, tutorials, field-based teaching, and independent study.
Laboratory practical classes will develop your understanding of a range of geological topics and help put theory into practice.
On average you will have 18 teaching hours per week and will need to undertake additional independent study (e.g., directed reading, assignments, and project work).
You can expect your total workload to average about 40 hours per week during term time.
Our geology degrees are also flexible; you can transfer between any of our BSc and MSci degrees during your first year.
You will benefit from being taught by experts active in internationally-relevant research.
In doing so, you will discuss the very latest ideas, research discoveries and new technologies in seminars and in the field, and you will become actively involved in a research project yourself.
Assessment methods vary between modules and may include individual or group reports, presentations, practical write-ups and exams.
More innovative assessment techniques are also used, and may include the use of websites, posters, social media, videos, science communication, and dragons-den style presentations.
You must pass the first year in order to progress to the second year, but your first-year marks do not count towards your final degree classification.
Geologists are required to help the global community deal with a range of environmental problems related to climate, energy, water, air pollution, natural hazards, supply of raw materials, and more.
Geology and geoscience degrees not only prepare you to tackle the world’s biggest environmental challenges, but they also lead to high employment rates and decent salaries , with graduate opportunities in the UK and around the world.
The Camborne School of Mines Association and the award-winning University of Exeter Careers Service have the skills and a strong network of alumni to help you find employment.
We provide regular ‘Pint and Pasty’ employer events throughout term that allow our students to network and meet with potential employers, and learn more about possible career paths.
Our graduates enjoy excellent career opportunities in a range of subjects, including mineral exploration, hydrogeology, geophysics, geotechnics, and environment-related industries.
Graduates also go on to roles outside of geology, utilising the array of transferable skills they have developed.
Recent graduates work in fields as diverse as the UK civil service, Arup Geotechnics, the National Trust, the Ministry of Defence and Geomarine Ltd.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Geology but also in wider fields.
Career opportunities for geologists are limitless.
Our programmes provide the essential skills for employment in a modern workplace, including discipline specific skills like Geographical Information Systems (GIS), geological mapping and fieldwork, mineral deposit identification and exploration, scientific programming, and use of technical software, in addition to transferable skills such as problem solving, communication, teamwork, leadership, and quantitative data analysis.
Geologists from the University of Exeter are recognised as being articulate, resourceful and diligent, and claim great job satisfaction and excellent salaries.
View all Geology courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geology/engineeringmsci:
MSci Engineering Geology and Geotechnics - 2026 entry
A level: ABB IB: 32/655 BTEC: DDD–DDM
This degree has been accredited by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3) under licence from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council, as fully satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
During year four you will undertake an extensive research project on a contemporary topic of your choice, working at the forefront of science in collaboration with one of our world-class research groups.
Your final year will also include an overseas field trip as well as a module in research frontiers that will introduce you to the cutting edge of geosciences research.
Exeter offers so many modules that I find interesting, with loads of hands on experience with field trips in spectacular locations (such as Godrevy) and great employment prospects in an array of fields.
I am confident I will achieve this goal, especially with the world class reputation and tuition of Camborne School of Mines behind me.
Read more from Benedict
Benedict
Engineering Geology and Geotechnics student

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geology/environmental:
BSc Environmental Geoscience - 2026 entry
A level: ABB IB: 32/655 BTEC: DDM
Our programmes are accredited by The Geological Society, which is the first step on the ladder to Chartered Geologist status after graduation.
In Year 2 you will build a detailed understanding of the science underpinning the foremost global geo-environmental challenges currently facing humankind.
You will also further develop core geoscience and transferable skills ready for a graduate-level career in environmental geoscience.
Your training will prepare you for an Independent Research Project (IRP) between Years 2 and 3, where you will carry out a field-based geo-environmental research project or industrial placement.
In Year 3, you will write up your Independent Research Project.
Core and optional modules will deepen your knowledge on the interactions between the geology, chemistry, physics, and biology of the Earth’s environment, and how these can in turn be influenced by human activities.
A ten-day residential fieldcourse is the highlight of the year, where you will explore an outstanding area of geoscience in Spain, Tenerife or Cyprus.
Laboratory practical classes will develop your understanding of a range of geoscience topics and help put theory into practice.
Our geoscience degrees are also flexible; you can transfer between any of our BSc and MSci geology and geoscience degrees during your first year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geology/environmentalmsci:
MSci Environmental Geoscience - 2026 entry
The ‘Engineering Geology field course’ provides an opportunity to examine an outstanding area of geology famous for its tectonic and mining history, and typically cycles between Spain and Cyprus.' should read 'The Environmental Geoscience Overseas Fieldclass provides an opportunity to put in to practice your knowledge and field-based skills in environmental geoscience, and includes a residential field course typically cycling between Spain and Cyprus

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/environmental:
BEng Environmental Engineering - 2026 entry
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 724061
A-Level: AAB-ABB IB: 34/665-32/655 BTEC: DDD-DDM
A-Level: BBB-BBC IB: 30/555-28/544 BTEC: DDM-DMM
Top 10 in the UK for General Engineering
8th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Hands-on course with an emphasis on practical project work
92% of our Engineering research is internationally excellent
Based on research rated 4* + 3* in REF 2021
Home of the Camborne School of Mines
A world-class combined geoscience and mining department
*Accepted GCE A-Level/AS science subjects include: Biology/Human Biology**; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
**If more than one of these is taken they would only count as one 'science' but could count as two A-Levels towards our general requirements.
Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject (GCE A-Level Maths is still required): Applied Science, Aeronautical Engineering, Building Services Engineering Construction and the Built Environment, Civil Engineering, Operations and Maintenance Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical/Electronic Engineering, Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Environmental Sustainability.
For any questions relating to entry requirements please contact the team via our online form or 01392 727272.
In your first year, you'll gain a comprehensive foundation in core engineering disciplines, including mechanical, electronic and materials engineering.
As you progress through your degree, your modules will become more specialised, with a focus on environmental engineering.
Throughout the course, you'll have numerous opportunities for hands-on project work, allowing you to apply theoretical knowledge and develop practical skills.
This practical experience is designed to bridge the gap between classroom learning and real-world applications, preparing you for a successful career in the field.
You’ll typically have between 15 and 32 hours of direct contact time per week with academics and you will be expected to supplement your lectures with independent study.
In addition to lectures, you’ll also have access to our workshops and laboratories where you’ll be trained to use specialist equipment, supporting and developing what you’ve learnt in the classroom and putting it into practice.
All our academic staff are internationally recognised scientists working across a wide range of topics.
Your course will draw on the very latest ideas, research discoveries and new technologies in the field.
You’ll be able to participate directly in current research at various stages throughout your degree.
Modules are assessed by a combination of continuous assessment through small practical exercises, project work, essay writing, presentations and exams.
You must pass your first year assessment in order to progress to the second year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.
Project work is a core element of this degree, providing invaluable experience of problem-solving, engineering design and team working.
The protection and enhancement of our natural environment sits at the heart of the sustainability agenda, with environmental engineers playing a crucial role in this effort.
Upon graduation, you will have a deep understanding of the environmental, economic, social and sustainability issues that are an integral part of the professional engineer's role in society.
You will be well-equipped to apply your engineering skills and knowledge to tackle environmental challenges, preparing you for diverse careers such as key roles in multidisciplinary industrial teams, research and development groups, as well as legislative and financial organisations.
The strong analytical thinking, project management and innovative problem-solving skills you develop will make you a sought-after professional, valued for your discipline-specific expertise and capability in leadership positions.
As a University of Exeter student, you will also have access to the Career Zone , providing invaluable support and tailored guidance to help you prepare for your career after university.
View all Engineering courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/environmentalmeng:
MEng Environmental Engineering - 2026 entry

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/envsci/envsci:
BSc Environmental Science - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB - ABB IB: 34/665 - 32/655 BTEC: DDD-DDM
A-Level: BBB - BBC IB: 30/555 - 28/554 BTEC: DDM - DMM
Placement/Study Abroad: A-Level: ABB - BBB IB: 32/655 - 30/555 BTEC: DDM
A-Level: AAA - AAB IB: 36/666 - 34/665 BTEC: DDD
Top 50 in the world for Environmental Sciences
Top 15 in the UK for Geography and Environmental Science
14th in the Complete University Guide 2026
Study climate change, biodiversity, sustainability and environmental decision-making
Unique field course and work placement opportunities
This programme is accredited by the Community for Environmental Disciplines in Higher Education (CEDHE), the education committee of the Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES).
CEDHE is the collective voice of the environmental sciences academic community and serves to enhance the quality of environmental education worldwide.
A programme accredited by CEDHE is assured to meet high standards, contain a strong component of practical, field and theoretical activities, and has excellent opportunities for training, work experience and links to the professional environmental sector.
Students enrolled on CEDHE-accredited programmes can apply for free Student Membership of the IES and for a fast-track route to membership once they graduate.
This programme is aligned with the academic requirements for Registered Environmental Practitioner (REnvP) and starts graduates on a route towards becoming a Chartered Environmentalist (CEnv) or Chartered Scientist (CSci).
This is a strong programme offering a wide range of engaging and effective provision that prepares students for a career in the environmental sciences.
Students have the opportunity to develop a broad range of relevant practical skills.
The tutorial structure embedded throughout the programme [...] provides scaffolded academic and pastoral support.
Opportunities to gain insight into professional practice are embedded throughout the curriculum, including innovative real-world assessment.
The Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES)
From their accreditation report on BSc/MSci Environmental Sciences
*Accepted science subjects: Biology/Human Biology, Chemistry, Computing, Design and Technology, Electronics, Environmental Science, Environmental Studies, Geography, Geology, Life and Health Sciences (Double Award only), Marine Science, Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths, Physical Education, Physics, Psychology, Science (applied), Sport Science, Statistics
Environmental science is a quantitative and interdisciplinary approach to understanding and managing the world in which we live.
Environmental scientists are concerned with understanding spatial patterns in physical, biological and chemical phenomena in the Earth’s system at local, regional and global scales.
They find appropriate solutions to environmental problems by assessing, reporting and quantifying environmental risks.
They work in areas as diverse as contaminated land assessment and remediation, natural resource management, practical conservation, pollution mitigation, ecosystem service assessment, environmental monitoring, mapping and consultancy.
Our degree in Environmental Science will give you the skills and expertise you need to address the world’s greatest challenges in climate change, such as biodiversity, sustainability and environmental decision-making.
Your first year will provide you with a solid scientific grounding in themes and topics of the integrated environmental sciences.
Core modules will give you a broad range of knowledge, allowing you to pursue your interests further on in your degree.
In your second year, you have more flexibility to explore your interests, tailoring your degree through module choice.
You will also gain a more detailed understanding of key issues and practical training in implementing environmental science strategies.
a The field course module, GEO2460, is compulsory.
If you are unable to take the field course, you will be required to take another optional module.
Find out more about placement and study abroad options under Course variants.
Details of individual modules that may be taken whilst abroad can be found by accessing the partner institution’s factfile at http://www.exeter.ac.uk/international/abroad/exchange/where/ and navigating to the “Course Requirements” section of that factfile where a link to the modules on offer in the partner institution is displayed.
In your final year, you will gain specialist training in the skills necessary to acquire jobs in the environmental sector.
You will have an opportunity to specialise in your preferred subjects through an independent research dissertation and a choice of optional modules.
Another highlight is the residential field course, where you will be immersed in a new environment and taught how to understand its environmental and cultural challenges from multiple geographical perspectives.
45 credits of compulsory modules, 75 credits of optional modules (you will have the option of taking a field course in your final stage but the location has not yet been finalised)
b Changes to your dissertation topic will not be possible beyond 1 December in the final stage.
A great thing about Penryn is the amazing Gylly Beach located just 30 minutes away from campus!
When I graduate I intend to work with the Environmental Agency in Singapore to better understand the recycling predicament we are facing and how we can resolve that.
Cheryl, from Singapore
BSc Environmental Science
BSc Environmental Science with Professional Placement
UCAS code: F753
In your professional placement year you will learn to apply the knowledge learnt during your first and second years, improve personal and transferable skills, make new contacts and enhance your employability.
Work placements allow you to gain experience of a professional workplace prior to graduating and develop your career focus, and are extremely valued by employers.
On the professional placement between the second and final years, you will gain valuable experience by spending a year working within an organisation appropriate to your degree.
Previous students have undertaken work placements at:
The module convenor provides support while you are researching and applying for positions and you are encouraged to consider a range of organisations, including consultancies, charities, NGOs, research institutes and universities.
Find out more in the Fees section .
You can apply to BSc Environmental Science with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
You are responsible for organising your own placement; however, we have established collaborations with local, national and international organisations that you can consider when applying for placement positions.
BSc Environmental Science with Study Abroad
UCAS code: F752
Our Study Abroad programme enables you to spend a year abroad at one of our partner universities across the globe.
You can find a complete list of partner universities on the Study Abroad website .
Whilst abroad you will study approved modules at the host university to the value of 120 credits; these will be credited towards your degree, which you would then complete after four years of study rather than three.
All assessments during the year abroad are undertaken at the host university and count towards your final degree.
Upon return, you would then complete your degree in a fourth year (equivalent to the current Year 3 of the standard BSc Environmental Science course).
If you spend a full academic year studying abroad you will pay a reduced fee for that year.
You can apply to BSc Environmental Science with Study Abroad directly through UCAS using the code above.
More information about applying .
If you choose the four-year version of this degree programme and spend a full academic year studying abroad, you will pay a reduced fee of 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
If you choose the four-year version of this degree programme and spend a full year on a work placement (in the UK or abroad) you will pay a reduced fee of 20 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
When participating in field courses, you will be required to cover any visa costs and, if necessary, purchase anti-malarial medication and relevant immunisations.
You may also need to provide your own specialist personal equipment appropriate to the field course destination.
Fieldwork is an integral part of all of our programmes, taking learning into the field to explore the incredible landscapes in the region and beyond.
Several modules, including day and residential field courses in the UK and further afield will allow you to develop key field skills, enable you to put them into practice and gain new research skills.
Led by expert staff, field trips are embedded into modules throughout your degree to give you a first-hand understanding of the subject.
We begin in Year 1 with a range of local field excursions, exploring ecological and environmental principles in West Cornwall.
In Year 2 you will undertake a week-long residential field course on the Isles of Scilly*.
It will enable you to develop the conceptual, analytical and practical research skills necessary for you to carry out independent research work.
In your final year we take you further afield to think about bigger issues in environmental science and give you an opportunity to apply your research and practical skills.
We also make the most of our location in the South West of England, organising a range of day trips each year as part of modules.
These provide fantastic opportunities to study distinctive human and physical processes.
By the end of the programme you will have gathered a suite of unique field working skills that will place you in a strong position to move into environmental employment.
*Please note that field course destinations are subject to change.
Some optional/alternative field courses may incur additional costs .
From Year 1 you will engage with hands-on enquiries using databases, maps and satellite data, developing GIS tools to help you understand the local, regional, national and global picture of the natural world and all of its processes.
Lecture material will be global in scope but practical work will build from a local focus in Year 1 to a global perspective by Year 3.
By the end of your degree you will be able to use spatial datasets to answer environmental questions important to the future of our planet.
At the Penryn Campus in Cornwall you will be welcomed into an intimate and supportive learning environment that encourages enthusiasm and passion for Environmental Science, and promotes interest in the global challenges geographers seek to address.
Research undertaken at the Environment and Sustainability Institute (ESI) – which leads research into various aspects of the relationship between people and the environment – inspires much of the teaching.
We believe every student benefits from being part of a research-inspired culture.
You will discuss the very latest ideas in seminars and tutorials and be taught by expert staff who are actively engaged in research on a wide range of specialisms, including climate change, remote sensing, landscape evolution, energy policy, environment and sustainability, social innovation and cultural landscapes.
We have strong links with research projects across every continent of the globe from Antarctica to Asia.
As a student in Environmental Science you will benefit from excellent student-to-staff ratios, small group tutorials and accessible staff.
From week 1 onwards you will join a group of around 6 students led by an academic personal tutor, who will support you throughout your studies.
You will meet with your tutor group frequently during term and remain with the same tutor throughout your 3 years of study.
In addition to participating in taught modules you are expected to undertake extensive independent and self-motivated study as part of your degree.
You will learn to work independently and become a scientific thinker during this programme – learning these skills is not easy but we will be on-hand to guide you throughout.
Your independent study will culminate in an individual project (dissertation) in Year 3 where you will research an environmental subject of your choice.
Assessment methods vary depending on your choice of modules, but are likely to include exams and coursework-based assessment.
You must pass your first year assessment in order to progress to the second year.
The assessments in the second and final years all contribute to your final degree classification.
We have a large variety of equipment that can be used on student research projects.
These include a wide range of devices to assess soil, water and air conditions and a cutting-edge handheld XRF analyser to directly measure heavy metal concentrations in soil and river sediment.
Digital media such as iPads, cameras and voice recorders are also available.
Your degree in Environmental Science will give you the skills and expertise needed to address the world’s greatest challenges in climate change, and make you highly employable across a diverse range of careers.
These skills include:
Upon graduation you will receive a certificate stating that you have completed a course accredited by the Institution of Environmental Science (IES).
The IES is a charitable organisation which promotes and raises public awareness of environmental science by supporting professional scientists and academics working in this crucial arena.
The Institution is an international organisation attracting professionals of high standing with significant specialist and interdisciplinary experience, from countries including Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, Hong Kong, Ireland, Kenya, Malta, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Portugal, Rwanda, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, USA and Zimbabwe.
Before graduating you are eligible to join the IES (at no cost) as a student member.
You are eligible to apply for Associate Membership upon graduation using a free fast-track application process.
For more information, please visit the IES website .
A range of employability sessions are put on for students such as: career talks with visiting alumni and employers from a range of backgrounds, career conversations and employability seminar series events with employers, a Careers in Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection Careers and Networking event and visits to the Met Office and UKHO, plus an annual Careers Fair and opportunities to access high-quality work placements through an employability optional module.
You will have the opportunity to apply for the RGS Ambassador Scheme.
The scheme recruits, trains and supports geographers currently at university and graduate geographers from the workplace to act as ambassadors for geography in the classroom.
Ambassadors act as positive role models for pupils and can illustrate, with enthusiasm, both the specific and transferable skills they have developed as a geographer.
For more information you can visit the RGS Ambassador Scheme website .
The breadth of career opportunities open to graduates is vast, such as environment, health, conservation, education, third sector work, culture and heritage and community work.
With training in both biological and social sciences, your options are likely to be broader than from a more narrowly focused subject.
Whatever you choose to do after graduation, your Environmental Science degree will stand you in good stead, with excellent employment prospects and transferable skills.
Below are a few examples of initial jobs undertaken by graduates from our Environmental Science and Geography undergraduate programmes*
Further study is a popular choice for a number of students following graduation from a Geography or Environmental Sciences undergraduate degree.
View all Environmental Science courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/envsci/envscimsci:
MSci Environmental Science - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABB - BBB IB: 32/655 - 30/555 BTEC: DDM
Field courses available in the south west and further afield
This degree in Environmental Science will give you the skills and expertise you need to address the world’s greatest challenges in climate change, such as biodiversity, sustainability and environmental decision-making.
The additional fourth year provides an opportunity to work on a project focused on a specialised area of academic research.
In your third year, you will gain specialist training in the skills necessary to acquire jobs in the environmental sector.
b Changes to your dissertation topic will not be possible beyond 1 December in stage 3.
The final year provides an opportunity to work on a project focused on a specialised area of academic research; this project will normally be related to and advance beyond your third year research dissertation project.
The remainder of your time will be spent learning more about environmental science and sustainability, and on a two-week residential field course in which your scientific field-research, debating and presentation skills will be further developed.
In Year 3 we take you further afield to think about bigger issues in environmental science and give you an opportunity to apply your research and practical skills.
In your final year you will undertake a field course, learning about threats to biodiversity and ecosystems, as well as studying ecology and behaviour with a focus on human impacts.
You will benefit from excellent student-to-staff ratios, small group tutorials and friendly, accessible staff.
You will meet with your tutor group frequently during term and remain with the same tutor throughout your 4 years of study.
Your independent study will culminate in an individual project (dissertation) in Year 4 where you will research an environmental subject of your choice.
The assessments in the second, third and final years all contribute to your final degree classification.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography/exegeogba:
BA Geography - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABB - ABC IB: 32/655 - 30/555 BTEC: DDM
Placement/Study Abroad: A-Level: AAB - ABC IB: 32/655 - 30/555 BTEC: DDD - DDM
Top 40 in the world for Geography
Learn from experts on field courses
I love the diversity of modules that are available within Geography, from learning about coral reefs in one lecture to analysing commodity chains in the next, it’s always different!
The teaching support is excellent, and lecturers always welcome discussions and questions.
Kieran
BA Geography
*Accepted humanities/social science subjects include: Ancient History/History; Business/Business Studies; Economics; English; Environmental Science; Geography; Government and Politics; Law; Media Studies; Philosophy; Politics; Psychology; Religious Studies; Sociology.
The BA Geography course allows you to follow your interests in human geography whilst giving you the flexibility to take optional modules in physical geography or beyond the department in each year.
You’ll investigate the world through novel geographical lenses, exploring the flows and spaces of globalisation, the impacts and responses to climate change, the importance of place and the shifting geographies of identity and culture.
You’ll choose from a range of optional modules which draw upon our research strengths.
You will also develop your knowledge and skills through fieldwork, practical research experience and carrying out a human geography dissertation.
The first year provides an excellent introduction to wide-ranging and cutting-edge research areas in human geography (including globalisation, sustainability, place, identity and culture) and the academic skills to enable you to thrive at university.
You have fieldwork allowing you to ‘learn through place’ and get to know your fellow course mates.
You can also take optional modules in physical geography or beyond the department.
The second year allows you to develop your interests further with a combination of core and optional modules.
Optional modules at the interface between human and physical geography also enable you to examine the challenges of climate change and sustainable development.
a You must choose 30-60 credits from the Human Geography and interdisciplinary Geography modules listed.
b You may then choose 0-30 credits from other level 5 Geography modules listed.
For your year abroad you will agree a suite of modules in your host institution with the Geography Study Abroad Co-ordinator.
Details of individual modules that may be taken whilst abroad can be found by accessing the partner institution’s website at
https://www.exeter.ac.uk/studyabroad/outbound/research/where/#a1
The final year offers optional modules across a wide range of critical subject areas in human geography, in many cases directly linked to ongoing research being undertaken in the department (covering fields such as political geography, environment and sustainability, and cultural geography).
This year also gives you the opportunity to undertake your own research project.
30-45 credits of compulsory modules, 75-90 credits of optional modules.
BA Geography with Professional Placement
UCAS code: L708
On this four-year variant of the BA Geography degree you will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree, which we support you to secure.
Students have worked with a variety of employers such as the UK Hydrographic Office, Ernst & Young and a wildlife conversation charity in Kenya, undertaking placements both in the UK and internationally.
You will be supported through your professional placement by a programme director who will provide high-quality advice to ensure you get the most from your placement.
During your first, second and final years of study, you will follow the same programme of study as the BA Geography (see Course content ).
Find out more in the fees section .
You can apply to BA Geography with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
Occasionally it is possible to transfer onto this programme from the standard BA Geography, if there are spaces and you have met any necessary prerequisites.
BA Geography with Study Abroad
UCAS code: L707
Exactly where you can apply to study will depend on the subject(s) you are studying at Exeter.
For a full list please visit the Global Opportunities website .
Whilst abroad you will study approved modules at the host university equivalent to 120 Exeter credits; these will be credited towards your degree, which you would then complete after four years of study rather than three.
Yes: your work during the year abroad is assessed and contributes to your final degree classification.
The words ‘with Study Abroad’ will appear in your degree title and be recorded on your degree certificate.
You can apply directly to this programme through UCAS using the code above.
To be eligible for a Study Abroad place, we would expect you to successfully complete your Year 1 studies with an average mark of at least 60%.
Occasionally it is possible to transfer onto this programme from the standard BA Geography course in your second year, if you have appropriate language skills and have achieved a mark of 60% or more in year 1.
Please note: Field trip costs such as travel, accommodation, and breakfast/evening meals are included.
Students may be asked to cover costs such as lunch, and any materials they may need (e.g.
notebooks).
Field courses throughout your degree provide immersive opportunities to deepen your knowledge, develop your skills, and demonstrate your ability to apply your geographical learning through the study of particular places.
You will:
Local, day field courses unique to South West England provide you with fantastic opportunities to get to know fellow students and academics, and the geographical processes that shape our world.
Our field courses develop your skills including teamwork; problem-based learning; research design, data collection, management and analysis.
By the end of your degree, you will be able to apply and further develop these skills on optional residential field courses further afield.
In the first term, you will gain practical experience, working together with people on your course, through the Fieldwork in Geography module.
You’ll gain real-world insight into the ways in which geographers make knowledge, and how geography is making a difference on your doorstep.
Modules in other years include day field courses, making the most of our location, allowing you to put your growing research skills into practice.
You’ll also have the opportunity to take an exciting optional residential field course module.
These field courses widen your horizons, bringing together learning from across your degree.
They support you to work together with fellow students and draw out the relevance of the knowledge and skills you’ve built for future employment.
For more information, see the relevant final year modules in the Course Content section .
The field courses we outline here provide examples of what you can expect to learn on this degree course based on recent academic teaching.
The precise field courses available to you in future years may vary depending on new topics and locations of study.
We design our field learning to be as accessible and sustainable as possible, following the Royal Geographical Society field course principles.
We review the financial accessibility of our trips, including core costs such as accommodation, travel, and breakfast/evening meals.
Find out more in the Fees section.
We also review the broader accessibility of our trips, looking to make them inclusive by design .
The University of Exeter has committed to act on climate change, and in line with our research, Geography is committed to playing our part.
We have reduced the carbon emissions from international field course travel by 94.5% between 2019 and 2025.
This is mainly by travelling to destinations by train and ferry instead of flying - an average carbon saving of 75%.
Embedding low-carbon travel has opened up new and exciting experiential learning opportunities.
You will join a large, energetic community of Geography students and staff presenting a thriving environment in which to study.
Our academic staff are world leaders across many critical contemporary research areas, from the protection of the Great Barrier Reef and the tropical ecology of the Amazonian forest to the reduction of antimicrobial use in farming, the geopolitics of migration and refugee displacement, and the development of craft economies.
We have strong links with international, national, and local research projects around the globe, and staff draw upon the insights and examples these provide in their teaching.
In lectures we encourage you to contribute through the use of smartphone interactive technology to ask questions or submit feedback.
Where applicable to your module choices, all students have access to well-equipped laboratories and the latest geographical information systems (GIS), mapping statistics and coding software.
We have a virtual learning environment, where the details of all modules are stored in an easily navigable website.
Here you can access detailed information about learning outcomes, and interact through discussion forums, blogging and virtual field trips.
The virtual field trips integrate video and audio data, maps, datasets, documents and published research to help you develop field work and analytical skills that are firmly grounded in the real world.
Your progress is monitored through tutorial work and practical assessments.
Your final degree mark is based on approximately 50 per cent exam-based and 50 per cent coursework-based assessments.
This is, however, dependent on your module choices where some optional modules might be 100% coursework for example.
You can therefore pick modules by topic but also based on what you think will best allow you to demonstrate your learning.
In your final year you will undertake a dissertation, which is an independent research project on the topic that excites you most.
You must pass your modules in the first year in order to progress, but your marks in this year do not influence your final degree classification.
We are committed to providing you with a supportive learning environment in which you can build confidence and mastery of Geography.
You will have a personal and academic tutor who is available for advice and support throughout your studies and to support the transition to university-level learning.
You will also be represented through Student-Staff Liaison Committees and have regular opportunities to feedback on your course and modules.
Students studying Geography develop both a depth and breadth of knowledge, skills and experiences that make them highly employable across a diverse range of careers.
We put on a range of employability sessions for students which include:
The breadth of career opportunities open to Geography graduates is vast, with recent graduates starting careers in planning, environmental and sustainability projects, water analysis, insurance, teaching and more – both in the UK and overseas.
Whatever you choose to do after graduation, your Geography degree will stand you in good stead, with excellent employment prospects and transferable skills.
Below are a few examples of initial jobs undertaken by graduates from our Geography undergraduate programmes*.
Further study is a popular choice for a number of students following graduation from a Geography undergraduate degree.
View all Geography courses
We can also work with you to support approaches that can make the fieldtrip physically, emotionally and socially accessible for you - for example in terms of health, wellbeing and dietary needs, religious observances, caring responsibilities, managing energy levels etc.
Previously this has included:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography/corngeogbabsc:
BA/BSc Geography - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB - BBB IB: 34/665 - 30/555 BTEC: DDD - DDM
A-Level: BBC - BCC IB: 30/555 - 26/544 BTEC: DMM
Placement/Study Abroad: A-Level: BBB - BBC IB: 30/555 - 28/554 BTEC: DDM
A-Level: AAB - ABB IB: 34/665 - 32/655 BTEC: DDM
Field courses available in each year of study
The biggest highlight of my course so far was the field trip to West Penwith*, as I built close relationships with my course mates.
We shared lots of joy and fun together, and applied the knowledge gained through lecture-based modules to real situations in Cornwall.
I finished the INTO Foundation Programme at the Streatham Campus last year and found everyone really friendly.
Also, the University of Exeter is recognised as a top-notch institution with highly-ranked research and excellent teaching.
The Penryn Campus is like a small community with lots of nice and friendly students and teachers.
The environment on campus is amazing.
We are surrounded by aesthetic landscapes and lots of green spaces.
I feel like I belong to the campus.
I am a member of the FXU Basketball Club, the FXU Christian Union and the Geography Society.
My group explored the relationships between the Cornish landscape and Cornish society.
I learnt valuable techniques that I can use in my future career, such as collecting data and analysing it in order to produce reliable findings.
It was a wonderful experience to work in the field and apply what I have learnt in the lectures.
After I have graduated, I think I will study a master's degree here at Exeter.
I am considering an MSc in Climate Change, or an MA in International Development.
Read more from Marky, from Hong Kong
Marky, from Hong Kong
BA/BSc Geography
This programme will broaden your horizons by breaking down the barriers between disciplines to allow you to gain a holistic understanding of the interactions between people, places, and events.
You will also have the flexibility to engage with specific human and/or physical geography topics as part of your degree.
The structure encourages you to pursue the topics that fascinate and capture your imagination.
Following a first year of interdisciplinary modules that tackle broad issues, you can tailor your degree by choosing a thematic route through a series of more specialist modules in the second and final years.
In essence, this exciting approach combines an all-round training in geography with the flexibility to graduate with either a BA or BSc degree, depending on your choice of optional modules.
This year comprises modules that examine modern challenges – from local landscape evolution to global environmental change – from multiple geographical perspectives.
It provides you with an excellent foundation, ensuring you develop the relevant skills and knowledge to progress your studies in subsequent years.
Build on what you have learnt in your first year and continue to study some core integrated modules.
You will also have the opportunity to take specific human and/or physical geography modules, enabling you to start tailoring your studies to suit your developing interests.
Year 2 also includes a residential trip to the Isles of Scilly.
a The field course module, GEO2460 is compulsory.
Find out more about study abroad or a professional placement under Course variants .
A significant focus in your final year is the research-led dissertation, for which you will receive individual supervision from an expert in your chosen field.
You will also choose optional modules from a selection covering both human and physical geography specialisms aligned to the research expertise of our academics.
45 credits of compulsory modules, 75 credits of optional modules (you will have the option of taking a field course  to Scotland in your final stage)
b You must choose one of the two Dissertation modules.
To exit with the award BSc (Hons) you must select GEO3478 and to exit with the award of BA (Hons) you must select GEO3479.
Changes to your dissertation topic and to your choice of award (ie BA or BSc) will not be possible beyond 1 December in the final stage.
BA/BSc Geography with Professional Placement
UCAS code: F8D8
On the professional placement between your second and final years, you will gain valuable experience by spending a year working within an organisation appropriate to your degree.
You can apply to BA/BSc Geography with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
BA/BSc Geography with Study Abroad
UCAS code: F8D7
On this four-year variant of the BA/BSc Geography degree you will spend your third year at one of our international exchange partner universities in Australia, New Zealand, the United States, China or Japan.
You can find a complete list of International Exchange partner universities on the Study Abroad website .
During your first, second and final years of study, you will follow the same programme of study as the BA/BSc Geography (see Course content ).
Occasionally it is possible to transfer onto this programme from the standard BA/BSc Geography course in your second year, if you have appropriate language skills and have achieved a mark of 60% or more in year 1.
For further information on where you can go and all topics surrounding study abroad, see the Study Abroad website .
Fieldwork is an integral part of your degree, and crucial to our teaching in Geography.
Cornwall is an exceptional place in which to study issues related to the environment and sustainability.
It is a perfect living laboratory which offers a diverse range of marine and terrestrial habitats, a wealth of natural resources, and creative and resilient communities.
Throughout your first year, local field trips will provide a comprehensive introduction to physical and human aspects of the region.
Cornwall has an incredible diversity of cultural, ecological and physical landscapes, and the wider region has been recognised as a UNESCO World Heritage Site with a high density of conservation areas and Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI).
It has been recognised as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) containing some of Britain's finest coastal scenery, including Land's End and the Lizard peninsula, and provides a perfect setting for geographical exploration.
During the residential field course to Scotland in the third year you will be immersed in the scientific, environmental and cultural geography of a completely new landscape.
Field trips are included.
This includes travel, accommodation and subsistence (the latter two for residential trips and field courses only).
Some trips may incur a cost for personal equipment/any materials students may need (eg notebooks).
Please note: students will be responsible for travel costs if they choose to travel independently to/from Scotland for GEO3472.
At the Penryn Campus in Cornwall you will be welcomed into an intimate and supportive learning environment that encourages enthusiasm and passion for Geography, and promotes interest in the global challenges geographers seek to address.
You will benefit from a welcoming atmosphere, excellent student-to-staff ratios, small group tutorials and friendly, accessible staff.
Research undertaken at the Environment and Sustainability Institute (ESI) – which leads research into various aspects of the relationship between people and the environment – inspires much of the teaching in Geography.
Teaching and research activities emphasise the value of holistic thinking – looking beyond traditional boundaries to the complex interactions between human societies and non-human environments.
The final degree mark is based on a combination of exam-based and coursework-based assessments (see table above).
The modules taken in Year 1 must be passed to progress to Year 2, but the marks obtained do not influence your final degree classification.
Your final year dissertation is an independent research project in which you study the topic that excites you most, with expert supervision and support.
As well as a minimum of 10 hours of direct contact time with your lecturers per week in your first year, all students have a personal and academic tutor who is available for advice and support throughout their studies and to support the transition to university-level learning.
In addition, all students are represented through Student-Staff Liaison Committees and can regularly feedback through module and course evaluations.
You will have the opportunity to participate in a Student Mentoring Scheme in Year 1, matching you with a Year 2 or Year 3 student who can answer your questions, offer advice and moral support to smooth your transition to university.
These include a wide range of devices to assess soil, water and air conditions and a cutting edge handheld XRF analyser to directly measure heavy metal concentrations in soil and river sediment.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography/exegeogbsc:
BSc Geography - 2026 entry
Exeter has more than you could want; you are so close to the beach and the city has great shops, food and places to visit, such as the cathedral and the quay.
There are so many opportunities at the University of Exeter to further your learning and get involved with new things.
My favourite aspect of the programme is the huge range of topics.
All the lecturers have office hours, which is a great opportunity to seek clarification or ask questions about what was said in the lecture or in reading.
As well as giving academic advice and support, my personal tutor also tells me about all the places to check out in Exeter, such as bike and running routes!
Since coming to university I’ve done lots of new things.
I picked up Korfball, which is a great way to meet people from other years, to destress and is very fun!
I also go along to the Missing Maps events, which I will be helping to run next year, and on walks with the Out of Doors Society.
During the first term I took part in a field trip to Slapton Sands* to look at the impact of climate change on the area.
This was so much fun and a great way to get to know the lecturers and other people on your course.
It was also great to see how the work you do in the field transpires to the literature.
While the days were jam packed, we had lots of opportunities to socialise and bond with course mates.
Geography at the University of Exeter is great, and the academics are incredible.
Eventually I would like to go into the charity sector and I know that the Careers Zone will support me, even once I have graduated.
It’s also just a £3 train journey to the beach from campus, which is great to escape to all year round!
BSc Geography
*Accepted science subjects: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences (Double Award only), Marine Science; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Sport Science; Statistics.
Our BSc Geography course allows you to follow your interests in physical geography whilst giving you the flexibility to take optional modules in human geography or beyond the department in each year.
The first year provides an excellent grounding in both physical and human geography and ensures you develop the core skills required to progress successfully.
The second and final years allow for greater flexibility and specialisation with an emphasis on physical geography.
You’ll choose from a range of optional modules which draw upon our research strengths .
You will also have the opportunity to undertake physical geography research methods, participate in a physical geography field trip, and carry out a physical geography dissertation.
The first year provides an excellent introduction to wide-ranging and cutting-edge research areas in physical geography (including the geosphere, cryosphere, oceans and atmosphere) and the academic skills to enable you to thrive at university.
You have field work allowing you to develop your physical geography research skills and get to know a wider group on your course better.
You can also take optional modules in human geography or beyond the department.
The second year offers a diverse range of optional modules in physical geography, including reconstructing past climates, landscape response to environmental change, the cryosphere and remote sensing.
Modules at the interface between human and physical geography enable you to examine the challenges of climate change, policy and sustainability.
A core component of second year skills development is research training in GIS, statistical methods, scientific computing and environmental modelling.
a You must choose 30-60 credits from the Physical Geography and interdisciplinary Geography modules listed.
The final year offers optional modules across a wide range of critical subject areas in physical geography, which are closely linked with research in the department.
BSc Geography with Professional Placement
UCAS code: F813
You can apply to BSc Geography with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
Occasionally it is possible to transfer onto this programme from the standard BSc Geography, if there are spaces and you have met any necessary prerequisites.
BSc Geography with Study Abroad
UCAS code: F805
Occasionally it is possible to transfer onto this programme from the standard BSc Geography course in your second year, if you have appropriate language skills and have achieved a mark of 60% or more in year 1.
In first term, we went on a three-day field course to Slapton Sands.
It was a great opportunity to get to know my course mates and my lecturers better as we had only been at the university for a few weeks.
The experience was really valuable as we were introduced to equipment and data collection techniques that will be useful throughout our degree, particularly with dissertation research.
Also, I really bonded with the other people on my course, as we would spend all day out in the field working together, then all evening socialising.
Read more from Iona
Iona
BSc Geography with European Study
All students have access to well-equipped laboratories and the latest geographical information systems (GIS), mapping statistics and coding software.
In lectures we encourage you to contribute through the use of smart phone interactive technology to ask questions or submit feedback.
This is however, dependent on your module choices where some optional modules might be 100% coursework for example.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography/geography-gis:
BSc Geography with Applied GIS - 2026 entry
GIS is a technology at the heart of spatial analysis, used to map things and locations to answer questions, detect patterns, tell stories and make insights that cannot be inferred from spreadsheets and charts.
It is a science and discipline in its own right, which is recognised by the new Geography with Applied GIS programme at Exeter and the success of its graduates.
Find out how the University of Exeter is leading in GIS teaching .
Top 20 in the UK for world-leading research in Biological Sciences, Geography & Environmental Science
I used GIS in my dissertation to investigate the impact of hurricanes on sea surface temperature, something I couldn’t have imagined studying before university!
The Geography with Applied GIS programme introduced me to web GIS and ways to visualise and present spatial information.
The skills and knowledge I developed on the degree secured me a place on the Esri UK graduate program.
I’m now a year in and still excited be applying the GIS skills I learnt during my degree in my job.
Read more from Max
Max
BSc Geography with Applied GIS
Geographical Information Systems (GIS) are revolutionising geography through spatial analysis with mapping and geo-technologies to provide the technical means for data exploration, visualisation and dissemination of developed understanding.
In our BSc Geography with Applied GIS you will enjoy studying the breadth of geography while gaining knowledge and hands-on experience of how mapping and analytics are accelerating our understanding of big data, empowering digital transformation and being applied in a growing industry crossing all sectors - including business, government, science and leisure.
You will develop skills such as statistical analysis, learning to code for data analysis, geospatial investigation and mapping using GIS, image analysis of earth observation data, and data collection in the field.
Training is provided on industry-standard software packages for spatial data analysis which are important skills across all employment sectors.
The first year of study on this programme is the same as for the BSc Geography programme .
It provides an introduction to wide-ranging research areas in physical geography and core academic skills.
Building on content from the first year, you will undertake core modules in applied GIS, remote sensing and research modules.
Training and support enable you to start developing a proposal for a final year research project with applied GIS.
In addition, you will have flexibility to select optional physical and/or human geography modules to suit your developing interests.
a You must pass both GEO2333 and GEO2321 to progress to the next stage of the BSc Geography with Applied GIS programme.
If you fail either of these modules you will be transferred to the standard BSc Geography.
b You must choose 15-45 credits from the Physical Geography and interdisciplinary Geography modules listed, subject to choosing 45 credits of options in total.
c You may then choose 0-30 credits from other level 5 Geography modules listed, subject to choosing 45 credits of options in total.
A significant focus in your final year is the research-led dissertation which will utilise GIS for the data analysis.
You will receive supervision from an expert in your chosen area of physical geography.
This year, you will continue to develop skills and understanding of real-world applications of GIS.
We offer a wide range of modules for you to select, covering both human and physical geography specialisms aligned to our research expertise.
d To qualify for the award of BSc Geography with Applied GIS you must select and pass at least 60 credits from GEO3223, GEO3239, and GEO3321.
If you fail these 60 credits you will be transferred to the standard BSc Geography.
You may select only one Dissertation module, so your selection must be one of the following combinations:
Your Dissertation must include GIS analysis and must be approved as such at the project proposal stage by the programme director.
BSc Geography with Applied GIS with Professional Placement
UCAS code: F814
On this four-year variant of the BSc Geography with Applied GIS degree you will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree, which we support you to secure.
During your first, second and final years of study, you will follow the same programme of study as the BSc Geography with Applied GIS (see Course content ).
You can apply to BSc Geography with Applied GIS with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
Occasionally it is possible to transfer onto this programme from the standard BSc Geography with Applied GIS, if there are spaces and you have met any necessary prerequisites.
BSc Geography with Applied GIS with Study Abroad
UCAS code: F811
On this four-year variant of the BSc Geography with Applied GIS degree you will spend your third year at one of our international exchange partner universities in Australia, New Zealand, the United States, China or Japan.
Occasionally it is possible to transfer onto this programme from the standard BSc Geography with Applied GIS course in your second year, if you have appropriate language skills and have achieved a mark of 60% or more in year 1.
I undertook a 10-month placement in Bristol at a company called TCarta in the role of GIS/Remote Sensing Analyst Support Technician.
I help on a variety of projects across the company, with any GIS and remote sensing analysis required.
The experience has been extremely beneficial for my career: it has given me an insight into working life and what to expect from a job in this industry.
I have been involved in several different projects, including a project on Air Quality monitoring, using machine learning and satellite imagery to detect moving vehicles in London in order to analyse emission estimates.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geology/geology:
BSc Geology - 2026 entry
I chose Geology because it really got me fired up.
It’s an amazing subject with such depth and the enthusiasm of the CSM staff was really inspiring and exciting.
Studying in Cornwall is wonderful, I grew up here and I just think it’s beautiful.
It’s such a natural playground so there’s always something different to do every weekend (as long as you don’t mind getting a little wet in the winter!).
The career zone have helped me with writing my CV to apply for summer work experience and CSM professionalism modules make sure you understand the business jargon needed when you graduate.
The thought of going into work can be intimidating but it’s nice not to feel alone.
Read more from Lydia
Lydia
Studying BSc Geology at the University of Exeter
In Year 2 you will explore how physics is used to investigate the Earth’s subsurface in our geophysics module.
You will also develop core geological and transferable skills that build on Year 1 knowledge by learning about sedimentary processes, volcanic and magmatic rocks, how rocks fold and fracture, and geological maps.
The Independent Research Project (IRP) is a third-year module that starts in the summer period between second and third year, when you carry out four to five weeks of independent field-based research.
Most of our students choose a geological mapping project, which they may do anywhere in the world.
Your third year begins with a written report based on your independent research project.
You’ll also study a range of advanced topics and techniques including collating geospatial data in computer-based maps and models.
The ‘Geology Overseas Fieldclass’ provides an opportunity to examine an outstanding area of geology famous for its volcanic, sedimentological or geological evolution, and typically cycles between European destinations including Tenerife, Spain, or Italy.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geology/geologymsci:
MSci Geology - 2026 entry
The Individual Research Project (IRP) is a third-year module that starts in the summer period between second and third year, when you carry out four to five weeks of independent field-based research.
During year 4 you will undertake a research project on a contemporary topic of your choice, working at the forefront of science in collaboration with one of our world-class research groups .
Your final year will also include an overseas field class as well as a module in research frontiers that will introduce you to current, internationally-significant research across the geosciences.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geography/marine:
BSc Marine Science - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABB-BBB IB: 32/665-30/555 BTEC: DDM-DMM
A-Level: BBC-BCC IB: 28/554 - 26/544 BTEC: DMM
Placement/Study Abroad: A-Level: BBB - BBC IB: 30/555 - 28/554 BTEC: DDM - DMM
A-Level: AAB-ABB IB: 34/665-32/655 BTEC: DDM-DMM
Top 50 in the world for Earth and Marine Sciences
44th in the QS World University Subject Rankings 2025
Experience of fieldwork at sea on a research vessel is an integral part of the programme
The Oban field trip was fantastic, being able to collect the data on the boats then extract, process and analyse samples in the lab added so much context to the fieldwork.
It was really great to see the research process from start to finish.
Abi
BSc Marine Science
I have always been a thalassophile – a lover of the seas and ocean.
Marine Science is such a dynamic and exciting field and there is still so much to learn!
I have thoroughly enjoyed all of my modules which have been a combination of physical, biological and polar marine science – everything from microscopic phytoplankton to remote sensing from space!
Rada
BSc Marine Science with Professional Placement
*Accepted science subjects: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences (Double Award only), Marine Science; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Sport Science; Statistics.
Marine Science is the holistic study of our oceans and their relationship with the Earth’s geology, atmosphere, polar ice and marine life.
The BSc Marine Science programme at Exeter covers a broad range of disciplines from physical oceanography, marine biology, marine biogeochemistry, geology, climate science and marine renewable energy to marine resource governance, oceans and human health, and law.
In this way, you will gain a truly interdisciplinary flavour with modules from several other departments contributing to both core and optional modules, including from: Ecology and Conservation, Law, Camborne School of Mines, and Renewable Energy Engineering.
And what better place to study Marine Science than in Cornwall, with its beautiful coastal and varied marine environment.
Your first year equips you with core material relating to fundamental areas of marine science – physical/dynamical, biological and geological oceanography – and strengthens your fundamental data analysis, maths and field work capability.
The second year introduces optional modules that enable you to tailor your course to begin to specialise in one or two of the sub-components, and the third year provides you with research-led modules and a marine research project in the sub-component of your choice.
a The field course module, GEO1421, is compulsory.
Please discuss this with the programme lead.
b The field course module, GEO2460, is compulsory.
c) GEO3477 Dissertation in Marine Science is a 45-credit GEO-coded module but you may select a supervisor from either CLES or CEMPS (i.e.
in Geography/Environmental Science, Biosciences, Renewables or Geology).
d) The field course module, GEO3463, compulsory.
UCAS code: CF23
Past placement organisations have included Oceanwise , UK Hydrographic Office , and Alfred-Wegener-Institut .
You can apply to BSc Marine Science with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
BSc Marine Science with Study Abroad
UCAS code: CF22
All assessments during the year abroad would be undertaken at the host university and would count towards your final degree.
Upon return, you would then complete your degree in a fourth year (equivalent to the current Year 3 of our BSc Marine Science course).
On this four-year variant of the BSc Marine Science degree you will spend your third year at one of our international exchange partner universities in Australia, New Zealand, the United States, China or Japan.
During your first, second and final years of study, you will follow the same programme of study as the BSc Marine Science (see Course content ).
Occasionally it is possible to transfer onto this programme from the standard BSc Marine Science course in your second year, if you have appropriate language skills and have achieved a mark of 60% or more in year 1.
Cornwall is an exceptional location to study issues related to the marine environment and the ocean.
It is a perfect living laboratory which offers a diverse range of marine and coastal habitats, a wealth of natural resources, and creative and resilient communities to conduct fieldwork in.
Fieldwork is a key part of our Marine Science degree: taking learning into the field to explore the incredible marine and coastal landscapes in the region and beyond.
Several modules, including day and residential field courses*, will allow you to develop key field skills, put these into practice, and gain new research skills.
Throughout your first year, local field trips will provide a comprehensive introduction to the marine and coastal environment and communities of the local region.
It has been recognised as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) containing some of Britain's finest coastal scenery, including Land's End and the Lizard peninsula.
Observational oceanography requires research at sea and such seagoing experience is an integral component of this programme through modules taught at sea or involving sea time.
In your first year, you’ll get to experience research at sea for the first time, for example through exploring the Falmouth Estuary by boat to measure plankton abundance, take conductivity temperature and depth profiles, and use a remotely operated vehicle to explore ocean habitats.
In the second year you will go on a field course to the unique Isles of Scilly, where you’ll work on physical and biological ocean at sea, learn skills in surveying the near-shore environment.
Your marine fieldwork experience will culminate in your third year in a week-long residential field trip at Oban in Scotland focused entirely on oceanographic sampling and analysis of field observations.
You will be given the opportunity to work onboard an oceanographic research vessel and deploy a range of equipment to sample the physical, biological and chemical characteristic of the marine environment.
You’ll analyse your data both in the laboratory and using data analysis coding packages.
During your third year, you’ll also have the opportunity to conduct your own independent field study as part of your dissertation where you will be given one-to-one supervision with a marine focussed member of staff.
The intensity of seagoing and coastal environmental and economic activity around Cornwall offers placements and work experience with marine-based companies, providing the opportunity for further seagoing experience.
Please note, some optional/alternative field courses may incur additional costs .
Our trip to Oban was a valuable opportunity to learn from researchers at the top of their fields and in such beautiful surroundings.
It was great to go through the whole process, from collecting our own data out on the boat, using top of the range equipment, to analysing the samples in the lab and finishing by evaluating our findings in a group presentation.
The trip was an incredible bonding experience, and I really enjoyed getting to know my course-mates better as well as the staff from both Exeter University and SAMS.
Lidia
James is a marine geologist and is currently Head of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences.
He teaches Earth System Science in the first year, and on the fieldtrip linked to the second year Ice Sheets module, and on the Isles of Scilly fieldtrip.
James moved to Exeter (Penryn) in 2017 from Bangor University where he taught in the School of Ocean Sciences for 32 years.
James’s research focuses on long-term marine climate and ecosystem change.
He has lead groups at Bangor and now at Exeter, researching mechanisms and feedback responses in the Earth’s climate system, in particular linked to ice-ocean interaction and the impact of changes of sea level on the carbon cycle, sediment transport and ocean circulation.
He is currently leading the European Research Council 6-year Synergy SEACHANGE Project which is establishing the impact of major human cultural transitions in marine biodiversity and ecosystem functioning.
His group has pioneered the development of sclerochronology, reconstructing marine climate and ecosystem change using very long-lived annually banded molluscs.
Notable research highlights of James’ group include the first annually-resolved marine climate series covering the last 1000 years (2017), the discovery of the longest-lived animal known to science (2007, 2013) and the first crossmatched sclerochronological series from the fossil record (2006).
Prior to SEACHANGE James had co-ordinated and led two major EU research consortia (SHELF and HOLSMEER), was a senior member of the 40-partner EU MILLENNIUM project (European Climate of the Last Millennium), and has held eleven UK NERC research grants.
Much of his research is based at sea and he has served as Chief Scientist on 11 research cruises, including three in the Antarctic and served as Principal Scientific Officer on the final cruise of the RRS James Clark Ross in the Antarctic in 2020.
Katy is an experienced sea-going oceanographer, her research explores the physics of our oceans and atmosphere.
She works on using acoustic methods to capture ocean flows deep below the surface layers – flows that span tens of kms to cm scale mixing.
Such methods will help to better understand how the oceans harness energy from the winds and tides to distribute properties such as the heat, carbon and nutrients across the globe.
Her expertise also spans Southern Ocean dynamics, Antarctic ice-sea interactions and mapping marine plastic transport.
Pauline studies the ocean processes ranging from hundreds to 1 kilometre, and below, and how they can influence the climatic state and variability.
Her expertise is primarily physical oceanography and geophysical fluid dynamics based on state-of-the-art models resolving the ocean down to ~1 km resolution.
She is particularly interested in understanding the drivers of ocean circulation, including the winds and tides injecting energy at large scales and the interactions redistributing these energy sources across scales.
Her research focuses on energy budgets, interaction mechanisms between large and small oceanic scales, with and without the influence of ocean bottom topography, and their relative contributions to ocean circulation at a global scale.
Pauline’s research has ranged areas connecting mid- to high-latitude oceans and will move toward polar regions, which condense the global ocean response to climatic variability.
Jamie’s research focusses on the ocean, its interactions with the atmosphere and how these relate to Earth’s climate.
His team has provided scientific understanding for monitoring methods to support aquaculture, through to global analyses of ocean carbon to support policy decisions and the design of satellites for the European Space Agency.
He was an invited scientific reviewer for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Special Report on the Oceans and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate (SROCC) and is a lead author and advisor for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) and International Oceanographic Commission (IOC) decadal vision for integrated ocean carbon research.
Geoff is an interdisciplinary geographer with work that crosses from physical geography and environmental geoscience to human geography and practices of environmental governance.
Aligning with the Active Earth research group of the University, his interests include natural hazards, disaster risk reduction, vulnerability, resilience, and preparedness in a range of settings from coasts to cities.
He is also interested in the practices and theories of geoscience teaching in higher education.
He is currently Admissions Tutor for the degree programme and is a Programme Director with responsibility for placement and employability programmes and activities.
Bob is a biological oceanographer.
He studies biological oceanography using observations from satellite (ocean colour), ship and autonomous platforms.
His interests include phytoplankton distributions, marine optics, marine primary production, marine ecology, bio-optical modelling, and developing algorithms for ocean colour data.
He is also interested in using citizen science to expand observations of key environmental indicators, such as water temperature and water quality, in under-sampled regions.
He works at global and regional scales, spanning a range of aquatic ecosystems from the lakes to the open ocean, and from tropical to polar waters.
At the Penryn Campus in Cornwall you will be welcomed into an intimate and supportive learning environment that encourages enthusiasm and passion for your subject, and promotes interest in the global challenges we seek to address.
Research undertaken at the Environment and Sustainability Institute (ESI) – which leads research into various aspects of the relationship between people and the environment – inspires much of our teaching.
As you progress through the programme, you will develop the skills to pursue your own academic interests and gain a more nuanced appreciation of discipline areas in which our marine research staff have specialised.
Our research filters directly into our teaching, and with fantastic student-to-staff ratios you will gain the opportunity to learn directly from world leading marine scientists.
By the end of the degree, you will have the knowledge and expertise to lead your own research project and will graduate with all the essential transferable skills, including fieldwork at sea, that marine employers demand.
You will also gain access to Exeter Marine , a world-leading marine science research group at the University.
You will discuss the very latest ideas in seminars and tutorials and be taught by expert staff who are actively engaged in research on a wide range of specialisms, including climate change, remote sensing, polar marine environments (Arctic and Antarctic), energy policy, environment and coastal sustainability.
Teaching and research activities emphasise the value of holistic thinking – looking beyond traditional boundaries to the complex interactions between the ocean sciences and the communities that depend on the sea for their food, resources, recreation and spiritual nourishment.
The final degree mark is based on approximately 50 per cent exam-based and 50 per cent coursework-based assessments.
The latter include a final year dissertation, which is an independent research project in which you study the topic that excites you most.
These include a wide range of equipment to measure marine parameters, including conductivity-temperature-depth (CTD) arrays and plankton and seabed sediment sampling devices.
You will develop both a depth and breadth of knowledge, skills and experiences that will make you highly employable across a diverse range of careers.
Given the pressures to manage, adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate and environmental change, not least changes in sea level and the risks of coastal flooding, the employability prospects for graduates trained in physical marine science, particularly well-trained practically, are high and only likely to grow.
Likely career paths include:
Understand how our oceans flow across the globe, from large scale currents like the Gulf Stream to tides, waves and turbulence
Find out about how shells and seafloor sediments can be used to track back past climate
Learn about field work in remote places like Antarctica, and ocean-ice interactions
Gain experience of using satellite data to map our phytoplankton communities
Discover the role of our ocean in absorbing carbon from the atmosphere
I’m doing a PhD in physical oceanography [or marine science] at the University of Cambridge.
I research the impacts of climate change on Arctic Ocean circulation by analysing ocean data collected by under-ice probes and ships.
My interest in the oceans and climate stems from my degree at the University of Exeter, Penryn campus.
The degree equipped me with a solid understanding of the Earth’s natural systems, and how they interact and relate to human activities.
What inspired me the most was studying up-to-date issues of global environmental change and polar ocean systems.
I also enjoyed growing my own research skillset, particularly in environmental fieldwork and data analysis.
These skills have given me a great basis to continue my studies in marine science.
Read more from Kate Oglethorpe
Kate Oglethorpe
Alumni

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mining/mining:
BEng Mining Engineering - 2026 entry
Top 20 in the world for Mineral and Mining Engineering
QS University World Subject Rankings 2025
Strong employment opportunities available nationally and worldwide
The only mining engineering degree offered in the UK
Learn from world-expert academics working with industry and governments
Join a global network of Camborne School of Mines alumni when you graduate
Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject (GCE A-Level Maths is still required): Civil Engineering, Engineering, Electrical/Electronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering.
For any questions relating to entry requirements please contact the team via our online form or 01392 724061.
Natural resources are required for our everyday activities: from the provision of essential commodities and construction materials, to the supply of critical minerals to drive the green energy transition.
The well-managed, responsible extraction of natural resources is therefore essential for modern society to function.
The resource sector faces unprecedented global demand for sustainable, efficient operating solutions as demand for minerals increases and governments move to implement climate change directives.
Skilled graduates with expertise in Mining Engineering will be at the forefront of delivering change and achieving a sustainable, net carbon future through the responsible extraction of these resources.
You will study a broad range of topics which include: the underlying maths, digital, geology and physics skills that inform engineering, then mine design, operations, processing, services, automation, safety, economics, environment and social governance.
Learning and teaching will take place through lectures, seminars and practicals; these can be laboratory-based or in and around mining operations.
You will develop new knowledge, skills, behaviours and ideas that will enable you to become a more effective employee who can add real change to their organisation and lay the foundation for a prosperous and challenging career in the mining and resource extraction industry.
As part of your degree, you will complete a work placement in the summer between years 2 and 3.
This will be in a mining environment, which could include a mine or in the business operations division of a mining company.
You will complete a placement report which will form part of your assessment.
You will be responsible for finding your own placement, supported by the academic team within the department and industry contacts.
Throughout your studies there will be many fieldwork opportunities for undertaking practical assessments, in areas such as surveying, geological and geotechnical mapping, and ventilation.
There will be visits to local mine sites, both surface and underground, in both the South West and around the wider United Kingdom.
Assessment methods vary between modules, but usually combine exams and coursework.
This might include practical work, professional posters, group projects, reports, software exercises, essays or verbal presentations.
Throughout your degree a strong emphasis is placed on your personal and professional development.
You will develop the essential skills valued by employers, such as:
You’ll benefit from the hundreds of links with industry we have established through collaborative research and consultation.
Student projects are usually industrially driven and often directly involve a company.
This provides an opportunity for you to undertake commercially important projects at the forefront of technology, gain invaluable experience and enhance your employability.
There are regular employer events from local and international mining companies and mining support companies throughout the year.
These allow our students to network and meet with potential employers, and learn more about possible career paths.
There are also regular guest lectures from industry experts on the current state of the art.
View all Mining Engineering courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mining/miningmeng:
MEng Mining Engineering - 2026 entry
*Accepted GCE A-Level/AS science subjects include: Biology/Human Biology**; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
**If more than one of these is taken they would only count as one 'science' but could count as two A-levels towards our general requirements.
Applicants studying one of the following new BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject (GCE A-Level Maths is still required): Civil Engineering, Engineering, Electrical/Electronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering.
The final year of study for MEng students offers a range of specialist modules that help to underpin your final individual project.
The MEng Individual Project module will enable you to put into practice your research, project management and engineering skills, in the investigation of an engineering research question.
This is a research-focused project that will allow you to develop a deep level of understanding in a research area of your choice, working closely with academics in their areas of expertise.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geology/resourcebsc:
BSc Resource and Exploration Geology - 2026 entry
You will undertake nine one-day field classes in iconic locations across Cornwall during terms 1 and 2, and attend a one-week residential field class in Pembrokeshire during early May.
Fieldwork includes six, one-day field classes, a residential field course in Devon and Dorset, and training in geological mapping on the Isle of Skye or in mainland Europe.
A key aspect of the third year is its flexibility: in addition to the core modules you’ll be able to tailor your degree to your interests.
The optional modules you’ll be choosing from cover continually-evolving subjects tackling a variety of global environmental challenges.
Alongside this, you will go on a ten-day residential trip to either Cyprus or Spain, focusing on applied mapping, geotechnical engineering and environmental impact.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/geology/resourcemsci:
MSci Resource and Exploration Geology - 2026 entry
You will undertake nine one-day field classes in iconic locations across Cornwall during terms one and two, and attend a one-week residential field class in Pembrokeshire during early May.
The optional modules you’ll be choosing from continually-evolving subjects tackling a variety of global environmental challenges.
Much of your final year will be focused on your individual research project on a contemporary topic of your choice.
You will also undertake a ten-day residential trip to Cyprus, Spain or Tenerife.
Our geology degrees are also flexible; you can transfer between any of our BSc and MGeol degrees during your first year.
Geology and geoscience degrees not only prepare you to tackle the world’s biggest environmental challenges, but they also lead to high employment rates and decent salaries, with graduate opportunities in the UK and around the world.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Resource and Exploration Geology but also in wider fields.
Our programmes provide essential skills for employment in a modern workplace, including discipline specific skills like Geographical Information Systems (GIS), geological mapping and fieldwork, mineral deposit identification and exploration, scientific programming, and use of technical software, in addition to transferable skills such as problem solving, communication, teamwork, leadership, and quantitative data analysis.
In particular, the MGeol course provides extra skills development in independent work, research, and oral presentation, which can be applied to both industry and academia.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/ecology/global-sustainability:
BA/BSc Global Sustainability - 2026 entry
Study climate change, biodiversity, business, and environmental policy
Gain interdisciplinary skills and knowledge to address critical global challenges
How we transform our societies to live sustainably on this planet is one of the most pressing challenges of our time.
Guided by world-leading experts, this interdisciplinary course equips you with the skills and knowledge to address critical global challenges such as climate change, biodiversity loss, and renewable energy, while promoting sustainable and socially just solutions.
This course provides foundational training in sustainability during the first year, with modules spanning diverse disciplines such as Geography, Environmental Science, Politics, and History.
In subsequent years, you can tailor your studies through optional modules and conduct a final-year dissertation project.
The Penryn Campus provides an unmatched setting for this programme with a high concentration of academic staff from across disciplines united in conducting internationally acclaimed sustainability and environmental research.
Stage 1: 90 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules
a You must choose one of the two Dissertation modules.
To exit with the award BSc (Hons) you must select BIO3446 and to exit with the award of BA (Hons) you must select BIO3447
BA/BSc Global Sustainability with Professional Placement
UCAS code: C307
On this four-year variant of the BA/BSc Global Sustainability degree you will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree.
You can apply to BA/BSc Global Sustainability with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
BA/BSc Global Sustainability with Study Abroad
UCAS code: C306
Once a place has been confirmed, you will liaise with both your host institution and the Exeter study abroad coordinator to decide a programme of study during your year abroad.
You can apply to BA/BSc Global Sustainability with Study Abroad directly through UCAS using the code above.
I am an interdisciplinary researcher with a background that spans the social and natural sciences.
My applied research projects address issues of sustainable community-based natural resource management and conservation.
I am currently conducting applied research projects with pastoralist communities in Kenya and other parts of East Africa.
The goal is to understand how communities can manage their grasslands sustainably in ways that support their traditional livelihoods based on livestock herding and that are also good for the wildlife they share the land with.
I am also investigating ways in which communities can reduce the impact of human-wildlife conflicts, so that they can benefit from and co-exist with wild animals.
I also have general interests in understanding how humans interact with their environments to create social-ecological systems (SES), and how people cooperate and act together to achieve collective goals.
These issues underpin political and economics systems, and are important for understanding how we can sustainably manage our natural resources and environments.
Read more from Dr Thomas Currie
Dr Thomas Currie
Programme Director, Centre of Ecology and Conservation
If, as part of your four-year degree programme, you spend a full academic year studying abroad, you will pay a reduced fee of 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
You may incur additional costs depending on the specific demands of the research project chosen.
You will learn through a combination of lectures, seminars, tutorials, workshops, and field courses led by internationally respected academics at the forefront of research in their fields.
Learning is interactive and dynamic, involving group tasks, discussion groups, and challenge-focused activities, as well as independent study.
Our teaching approach emphasises active participation, encouraging you to present your ideas, tackle case studies, and debate key theories.
This process develops critical and analytical thinking alongside transferable skills such as time management, teamwork, and effective verbal and visual communication.
You’ll also work closely with our academics, contributing to research projects and discussing the latest findings in seminars and tutorials, becoming an active member of a research community.
You will have the opportunity to participate in a wide range of field courses, in Cornwall and further afield, and through these and other modules you'll learn first-hand from businesses, practitioners, and stakeholders about the sustainability challenges people are facing and the solutions that are being implemented.
Throughout your studies, you’ll have access to a personal tutor for advice and support, ensuring a well-rounded, research-inspired learning experience that equips you with the skills and knowledge to excel in your field.
You will study on our beautiful Penryn Campus in Cornwall, a hub of environmental and social sustainability expertise.
I am an interdisciplinary scholar with expertise in the literatures and creative expression of the Hispanophone and Anglophone Caribbean and US and their intersections with history, colonialism, decolonial politics, politics, law, human rights, the environment, natural hazard, as well as ideas of place, belonging, and home.
I am also Co-Director of the Centre for Environmental Arts and Humanities, which brings colleagues together from across the university community who are committed to working collaboratively to apply arts and humanities research and methods to tackle the intractable global environmental issues that we face, locally and globally, from resource extraction, ecological crises, to the climate crisis.
Read more from Dr Wendy McMahon
Dr Wendy McMahon
Programme Director, HaSS Cornwall
This flagship degree prepares you for careers in sustainability and related fields, embedding employability skills throughout the programme and positioning you at the forefront of efforts to create a more sustainable future.
The breadth of career opportunities open to graduates is vast, including areas such as:
With training in both science and humanities, your options are likely to be broader than from a more narrowly focused subject.
You’ll gain skills that are highly sought after across public, private, and NGO sectors, preparing you for roles such as Sustainability Manager, Environmental Planner, Programme Manager, or Project Manager.
Many graduates also choose to continue their education through postgraduate study or research.
Our dedicated, award-winning Careers Service provides personalised support to help you achieve your goals.
Through services like employer visits, mentoring, and employability workshops, as well as initiatives like the Exeter Award and Exeter Leaders Award, you’ll be equipped with the tools and experience to stand out in the competitive job market.
Whatever your chosen path, your degree will prepare you for a successful and impactful career.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics/busecon:
BSc Business Economics - 2026 entry
A levels: A*AA - AAA IB: 38/766 - 36/666 BTEC: D*DD - DDD
A-Level: AAB - ABB IB: 34/665 - 32/655 BTEC: DDD - DDM
A-Level: A*AA - AAA IB: 38/766 - 36/666 BTEC: D*DD - DDD
Top 15 in the UK for Economics
11th in the Complete University Guide 2026 and joint 15th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top 15 for graduate prospects
Joint 11th for Economics graduate prospects in The Complete University Guide 2026
Top 150 in the world for Economics
I chose my degree because of the flexibility to choose optional modules from a variety of disciplines.
This allowed me to customise my degree and explore various areas within economics as well as from other departments.
This greatly compliments my knowledge and allows me to understand economics from a wider context.
Read more from Nikita
Nikita
(A) Students who have achieved a Grade B or above at A-Level Mathematics (or equivalent) may apply to take BEE1024 Mathematics for Economists, BEE1036 Economics I AND BEE1037 Economics II instead of BEE1029 Economics Principles with the permission of the Programme Director.
BEE1036 and BEE1037 will be non-condonable.
(B) This module is only compulsory for students who do not have a Grade B or above at A-Level Mathematics (or equivalent).
*BEM1024 is equivalent to BEE1025 for students transferring to this programme at stage two*
(C) This is a compulsory second-year module.
However, students who have passed BEE1036 Economics I, BEE1037 Economics II and BEE1024 Mathematics for Economists may do BEE2025 Microeconomics II and BEE2026 Macroeconomics II with the permission of the Programme Director.
Note: BEM1024 is equivalent to BEE1025 for students transferring to this programme at Stage 2.
120 credits of optional modules, 30 out of this 120 credits should be Economics modules (not to include BUS3001 if you decide to take this module).
The BSc Business Economics degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard BSc Business Economics course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
BSc Business Economics with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: L192
BSc Economics with Year Abroad
UCAS code: L196
The BSc Business Economics degree adopts an international outlook meaning you will develop an understanding of the global business environment.
View all Economics courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics/economics:
BSc Economics - 2026 entry
Visit us
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard 3-year course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
The BSc Economics degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard BSc Economics course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
BSc Economics with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: L102
UCAS code: LL01
The BSc Economics degree adopts an international outlook meaning you will develop an understanding of the global economic environment.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics/finance:
BSc Economics and Finance - 2026 entry
A highlight of my time at Exeter has been my year-long work placement at a tech startup in London.
This experience was unforgettable and incredibly valuable for my personal and professional development.
Working at a startup gave me hands-on experience and insight into the industry, going beyond what I would have learnt from just studying my modules.
It’s something I’m truly grateful for, and I wouldn’t have had the experience without the fantastic support of the B usiness S chool’s career team.
Read more from Amishi
Amishi
BSc Economics and Finance with Industrial Experience
The BSc Economics and Finance degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard BSc Economics and Finance course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
UCAS code: LND3
BSc Economics and Finance with Year Abroad
UCAS code: LN1J
The Economics and Finance course at Exeter is definitely a packed but enriching course.
If you engage well with the learning materials and the professors on campus, then it ’s truly an exceptional and holistic experience.
Additionally, the Economics Society regularly invites distinguished guests to the University ’s Business School to discuss real world issues and these talks have given me a platform to apply what I learned in my modules.
Read more from Aviral
Aviral
BSc Economics and Finance

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics/politics:
BSc Economics and Politics - 2026 entry
Top 10 in the UK for our world-leading Politics and International Studies research
Based on research rated 4* in REF 2021
Top 100 for Politics in world subject rankings
QS World University Subject Rankings 2024
So much tailored support has given me a new level of confidence and next year I’m going to be joining BMW on their Corporate Governance with CEO support placement.
Getting the chance to work for such a global brand as part of my degree is awesome, and I definitely feel that the support the Business School has given me has left me with all the tools needed to be successful next year and beyond.
James
BSc Economics and Politics with Industrial Experience
A) Students who have achieved a Grade B or above at A-Level Mathematics (or equivalent) may apply to take BEE1024 Mathematics for Economists, BEE1036 Economics I AND BEE1037 Economics II instead of BEE1029 Economics Principles.
BEE1036 and BEE1037 will be non-condonable
B) This module is only compulsory for students who do not have a Grade B or above at A-Level Mathematics (or equivalent).
15 or 30 credits of optional modules (depending on note A above)
http://business-school.exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/modules/
C) This is a compulsory second year module.
However students who have passed BEE1036 Economics I and BEE1037 Economics II may do BEE2025 Microeconomics II and BEE2026 Macroeconomics II.
30 or 60 credits of optional modules (depending on note C above).
At least 15 credits of Economics modules and at least 15 credits of Politics modules.
120 credits:
The BSc Economics and Politics degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard BSc Economics and Politics course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
UCAS code: LL1G
BSc Economics and Politics with Year Abroad
UCAS code: LL13
The BSc Economics and Politics degree adopts an international outlook meaning you will develop an understanding of the global economic environment.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/economics/econometrics:
BSc Economics with Econometrics - 2026 entry
The BSc Economics with Econometrics degree offers you the opportunity to spend a year working in a related industry or studying abroad.
You can apply directly to one of these options, or you can apply to the standard BSc Economics with Econometrics course and transfer onto one of these options in the first term of your first year.
BSc Economics with Econometrics with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: L193
BSc Economics with Econometrics with Year Abroad
UCAS code: LI94
The BSc Economics with Econometrics degree adopts an international outlook meaning you will develop an understanding of the global economic environment.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/biomedical-beng:
BEng Biomedical Engineering - 2026 entry
£6.5million investment in our teaching labs, workshop spaces and equipment
This course launches in 2025 and has been developed in close partnership with industry and in consultation with our accrediting bodies.
We have already successfully gained accreditation from industry professional bodies for established programmes across the Engineering Department.
As this is a new programme, we aim to seek accreditation from the relevant professional bodies; however, this cannot be guaranteed at this stage.
Accreditation status will be updated when new information is available.
If you require any further information, please contact the University directly .
As you progress through your degree, your modules will become more specialised, with a focus on biomedical engineering.
Throughout the course, you'll have numerous opportunities for hands-on project work, allowing you to apply theoretical knowledge, develop practical skills and create innovative prototypes.
Studying at Exeter is really enjoyable.
There are so many different ways you can ask for support from academics who are always there to help you.
The best part about my subject is all of the hands-on opportunities.
Almost all of the labs you see are ones you could have opportunities to use.
An Engineering student
Biomedical engineering is a rapidly growing field, driven by the global ageing population and the increasing prevalence of non-communicable diseases, as well as the need to manage and treat emerging health challenges.
Upon graduation, you will be well-prepared to leverage your expertise in healthcare-related science and technology, alongside your skills in engineering processes, problem-solving and design.
This expertise will open doors to careers in various sectors, including medical device design and development, healthcare technology implementation and biomedical research.
The comprehensive knowledge and skills you acquire during this course are also highly transferable, making you a valuable asset in other industries such as wider engineering disciplines, finance, professional services, management consultancy and teaching.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/biomedical-meng:
MEng Biomedical Engineering - 2026 entry
In your fourth year, you’ll put into practice your research, project management and engineering skills, in the investigation of an engineering research question.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/biomedical-foundation:
BEng Biomedical Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Eligibility: UK ( Home Fee ) students who fulfil the criteria as shown within our eligibility criteria below.
In support of the University’s Access and Participation Plan this course is only open to UK domiciled students who meet our contextual offer eligibility criteria, or are classed as Mature Students, and who may not have met the entry requirements for first year entry or have not been able to take A-level Mathematics alongside a BTEC L3 Extended Diploma.
C in Maths and B in a Science* (see 'Read more' below)
We will also accept AS Maths at A or Core Maths at A, in lieu of A-Level Maths.
*Accepted GCE A-Level/AS sciences include: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Please note: As part of our ongoing commitment towards improving the student experience at Exeter, we are introducing a new foundation level year to our Engineering degrees from September 2022.
The foundation course covers the core maths skills needed to progress onto our Year 1 of the BEng Engineering with Foundation Year programme, or have the opportunity to transfer to Year 1 of another programme with a foundation year provided you meet the entry requirements for that programme.
As a result of introducing the foundation year we are currently going through a process to expand our accreditation to include this programme.
Please see our 'pathways' below for further information and details of the modules available on the degree programmes you can progress to from the Foundation Year.
Foundation year modules
Pathways
The courses listed below are the pathway options available for these integrated 4-year undergraduate degree programmes.
In the second term of your Foundation Year, you will specialise in your chosen course:
We’re really proud to launch our foundation programme pathways which demonstrate the University of Exeter’s commitment to widening access to our engineering, maths, physics and natural science programmes.
Read more from Professor Nicola King
Exeter’s foundation has been created to support and prepare students for the challenges of an undergraduate degree in Mathematics, Physics, Natural Sciences or Engineering.
Read more from Dr Houry Melkonian
Depending on your course, you may encounter a variety of teaching methods .
The mathematics modules at this stage comprise of 90 credits in total, while the 'Science: Skills and Culture' module is 30 credits.
Visit the course page for BEng Biomedical Engineering for more details about the learning and teaching methods for the subsequent years of your degree programme.
You will be allocated a personal tutor who will be happy to advise or put you in touch with support services, and you are encouraged to discuss subject related questions with tutors and lecturers who advertise regular office hours.
You must pass your foundation year and meet the progression criteria to progress, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/chemical:
BEng Chemical Engineering - 2026 entry
In your first year, you'll establish a strong foundation in core engineering disciplines, including mechanical, electronic, and materials engineering.
As you progress, your focus will shift more towards chemical engineering with specialised modules that provide in-depth knowledge in the field.
Our programme places a significant emphasis on hands-on project work, allowing you to apply theoretical concepts and enhance your practical skills.
You'll gain experience with chemical engineering lab equipment, such as unit operations, heat exchangers and reactors, as well as equipment from other engineering disciplines, including mechanical workshops and electronics labs.
This diverse practical experience will help you become a well-rounded graduate, prepared to excel in various engineering environments and set you up for success in your future career.
You’ll be able to participate directly with current research at various stages throughout your degree.
Chemical engineers are in high demand, and our course is designed to equip you with a versatile skill set that is highly sought after by employers.
Upon graduation, you’ll be prepared for a diverse range of careers in industries such as food and drink, energy, pharmaceuticals and consumer products.
Our emphasis on project-based learning ensures that you gain core technical skills that are easily transferable across various roles.
You’ll build a strong foundation in chemical engineering while also gaining insights into other engineering disciplines.
This well-rounded approach will make you a versatile professional, ready to excel in multiple work environments.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/chemicalmeng:
MEng Chemical Engineering - 2026 entry
One option from:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/chemicalfoundation:
BEng Chemical Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
*Accepted GCE A-Level/AS science subjects include: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Visit the course page for BEng Chemical Engineering for more details about the learning and teaching methods for the subsequent years of your degree programme.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/civil:
BEng Civil Engineering - 2026 entry
A level: AAB - ABB IB: 34/665-32/655 BTEC: DDD–DDM
with a Year in Industry
Top 20 in the UK for Civil Engineering
20 th for Civil Engineering in The Guardian University Guide 2025
91% of graduates in/due to start employment or further study 15 months after graduation
HESA Graduate Outcomes survey 2020/21, based on full-time, first degree, UK domiciled Engineering graduates
*GCE AL/AS science includes: Biology/Human Biology**; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject, GCE A-Level Maths is still required: Applied Science, Aeronautical Engineering, Building Services Engineering Construction and the Built Environment, Civil Engineering, Operations and Maintenance Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical/Electronic Engineering, Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Environmental Sustainability.
Applicants studying one of the following subjects in the BTEC Diploma or BTEC Extended Certificate will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject, GCE A-Level Maths is still required: Applied Science, Engineering.
This BEng Civil Engineering and BEng Civil Engineering with Year in Industry are accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM)* on behalf of the Engineering Council, for the purposes of:
Candidates must hold a masters or doctorate accredited as further learning for CEng to hold accredited qualifications for CEng registration.
See www.jbm.org.uk for further information and details of Further Learning programmes for CEng.
* The Joint Board of Moderators comprises the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE), the Institution of Structural Engineers (IStructE), Institute of Highway Engineers (IHE), the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation (CIHT) and the Permanent Way Institution (PWI).
Collaborative modules in your first year will give you a broad knowledge across all core engineering disciplines.
As you progress through your degree you’ll study increasingly advanced topics aligned to our research strengths in areas such as geotechnical engineering, hydraulics, and construction project management.
The multidisciplinary ethos of the first year builds core theoretical and practical knowledge in all engineering disciplines.
This allows you to transfer to a different discipline at the end of the year.
A year-long multidisciplinary group project provides a means of putting core knowledge into practice.
In your second year you’ll undertake hands-on learning with practical work on topics such as soils, solid mechanics and robotics.
You'll also complete a large-scale civil engineering project.
If you are studying ‘with Year in Industry’ you will spend the third year on placement and carry out a 120 credit module.
The final year of your degree includes a substantial individual project in which you will put into practice your research, project management and engineering skills, to develop your own real-world solution to an engineering problem or challenge.
BEng Civil Engineering with Year in Industry
UCAS code: H208
Our four year ‘with Year in Industry’ programme includes a paid placement in business or industry for the duration of your third year.
Work experience is a real advantage when entering the graduate job market.
It’s also a great way to try out different jobs and to make contacts within companies you’re interested in working for.
Yes, it’s worth 120 credits.
During this year you will pay a reduced tuition fee.
Visit the Tuition Fees page for more information.
You can apply for this programme through UCAS using the code at the top of this page, or transfer onto this option at the end of your first year in an Exeter-based Engineering degree.
We will help you to prepare for your work placement from early in your studies.
A special module 'Employability and Placement Preparation for Engineers' takes place at the start of your second year.
This is an opportunity to start thinking about your placement well in advance.
You’ll also be invited to attend workshops offering guidance and support.
You’ll typically have between 15 and 32 hours of direct contact time per week with your tutors and you will be expected to supplement your lectures with independent study.
In addition to lectures you’ll also have access to our workshops and laboratories where you’ll be trained to use specialist equipment, supporting and developing what you’ve learnt in the classroom and enabling you to put what you’ve learnt into practice.
All our academic staff are internationally-recognised scientists working across a wide range of topics.
Student projects are often linked to our research activities and may involve working with industrial partners.
Recent projects have involved optimising drones for agricultural uses and modelling and evaluating stresses within millions-of-years-old sediments.
Projects are typically industrially driven, are commercially relevant and often directly involve a company.
Civil engineering is concerned with creating and managing the infrastructure and environment in which we live.
As a civil engineer you’ll play a key role in the future prospects and health of society.
Civil engineering interfaces with electrical, mechanical, chemical and managerial processes.
People skills are vitally important to civil engineers, who work alongside a broad section of society in order to bring plans to fruition.
Our programmes combine science with personal and management skills developed through practical projects and direct study.
Engineers have a reputation as being articulate, numerate, problem solvers, who claim great job satisfaction.
Typically, salaries are significantly higher for engineering graduates than the average for other graduates.
Our graduates excel in specialist engineering fields and across a broad range of other sectors.
We offer a very wide range of opportunities for you to develop the skills employers are looking for.
Throughout your degree you will have the opportunity to meet with graduate employers.
Professional engineers visit the university to hold mock interviews, allowing you to discuss your career opportunities at an early enough stage to inform your choice of modules and placement decisions.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Engineering but also in wider fields.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/civilmeng:
MEng Civil Engineering - 2026 entry
A-Level: BBB-BBC IB: 30/555-28/554 BTEC: DDM-DMM
The MEng Civil Engineering and MEng Civil Engineering with Year in Industry are accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM)* on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of:
See www.jbm.org.uk for further information.
*Accepted A-Level science subjects include: Biology/Human Biology^; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths^; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject (GCE A-Level Maths is still required): Applied Science, Aeronautical Engineering, Building Services Engineering, Construction and the Built Environment, Civil Engineering, Operations and Maintenance Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical/Electronic Engineering, Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Environmental Sustainability.
Applicants studying Applied Science or Engineering in the BTEC Diploma or BTEC Extended Certificate will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject.
GCE A-Level Maths is still required.
As you progress through your degree you’ll study increasingly advanced topics aligned to our research strengths in areas such as geotechnical engineering, conceptual design of buildings and hydraulics.
Your third year introduces more advanced modules, in areas such as structural engineering, hydraulics and geotechnical engineering.
If you are studying ‘with Year in Industry’ you will spend your fourth year on placement and carry out a 120-credit module.
The final year of study for MEng students offers optional specialist modules in structural or environmental engineering.
You'll put your research and engineering skills into practice through an extended individual project.
MEng Civil Engineering with Year in Industry
UCAS code: H209
Our five year ‘with Year in Industry’ programme includes a paid placement in business or industry for the duration of your third year.
I love the way Exeter seems to perfectly balance country life and city life, there is enough to do here that it doesn’t get boring yet it is not too busy that you can’t get anything done.
With the support of the university, and the experience I have gained here, I successfully found an internship last summer.
The placement not only taught me skills that have increased my employability but also it ensured I am pursuing the career that I will enjoy in the future.
Read more from Skye
Skye
Studying MEng Civil and Environmental Engineering with Industrial Experience
Recent projects have involved designing a smart building crisis management system and creating a test rig for assessing the durability of concrete under load.
Since leaving Exeter I have worked on multiple construction sites as part of the principle contracting company.
These projects have included the fitout of a London Underground station and the earthwork and highways structures of a motorway junction in Kent.
I wanted a career where every day is difference and where I can make a real difference to society.
I love being able to see works taking place on site and I get a great sense of accomplishment from seeing projects through to completion.
I was not completely sure that a straight civil engineering course was right for me so I was drawn to Exeter for its combined first year.
I came and fell in love with the place.
Read more from Harry
MEng Civil Engineering (2017)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/civil-foundation:
BEng Civil Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Open days and visiting us
Expertise in energy policy, marine renewables, biofuels, electrical power and networks, wind, photo-voltaic and thermal technologies
This BEng Civil Engineering with Foundation Year is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM)* on behalf of the Engineering Council, for the purposes of:
GCE A-Level Maths grade C and Science* grade B.
Candidates may offer GCE A-Level Maths, Pure Maths or Further Maths.
We will also accept AS Maths at A or Core Maths at A in lieu of A level Maths
The foundation course covers the core maths skills needed to progress onto our Year 1 of the BEng Civil Engineering with Foundation Year programme, or have the opportunity to transfer to Year 1 of another programme with a foundation year provided you meet the entry requirements for that programme.
One of my favourite things has been the applied mathematics module.
I found it very engaging, as it built on concepts I was already familiar with from A-levels while incorporating more complex applications and coding.
The small class size also allowed for a good rapport with the lecturers, who were always willing to answer any questions.
In general, the natural beauty of the Exeter campus has been a highlight.
Read more from Mia McCormick
Mia McCormick
BEng Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year
Visit our course pages for details of the Learning and Teaching methods on the BEng Civil Engineering or BEng Mechanical Engineering , BEng Engineering , BEng Electronic Engineering , BSc Mathematics , BSc Natural Sciences and BSc Physics degree programmes for the subsequent years of your chosen degree programme.
You will be allocated a personal tutor who will be happy to advise or put you in touch with support services, and you are encourage to discuss subject related questions with tutors and lecturers who advertise regular office hours.
Extra support is available, for example through our peer mentor scheme, and we have an active student-staff liaison committee.
You must pass your foundation year and meet the progression criteria to progress to Year 1 of the BEng in Civil Engineering with a foundation year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/programmes/civilengineering:
Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship
15 July
Programme Director: Abdul Mannan Yousfani
Email: engineering.apprenticeships @exeter.ac.uk
Developed in partnership with industry leaders
Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered: Applied Science; Aeronautical Engineering; Building Services Engineering; Construction and the Built Environment; Civil Engineering, Operations and Maintenance Engineering; Computer Engineering; Electrical/Electronic Engineering; Engineering; Environmental Sustainability; Manufacturing Engineering; Mechanical Engineering.
GCE A-Level Maths grade B and another science* subject at grade B.
Find out more about contextual offers
*GCE A-Level science includes: Biology/Human Biology**; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
If the apprentice is aged 19+ when they begin their apprenticeship training, and they do not already hold a suitable equivalent qualification, English and/or Maths is an optional part of the programme under the funding rules.
This programme does not follow the standard UCAS application process.
You can apply to this degree apprenticeship in addition to applying to any institution(s) through UCAS.
To gain a place on this programme, applicants must either:
Once you are able to meet one of the above options, please get in touch with us via the contact methods above and we will proceed with your application.
View more information on how to apply
Full programme cost: £27,000 or £29,000
Your employer fully covers the cost of the apprenticeship.
Apprentices do not pay for any of the eligible training costs.
To be eligible for funding, you (the apprentice) must meet the criteria listed in the Department for Education guidance .
The apprentice must have a valid and eligible residency status to gain entry onto the apprenticeship.
Engineering remains at the heart of the UK economy and the demand for skilled and qualified engineers has never been higher.
The modules in this programme aim to enable you to:
Years one to three provide core fundamental knowledge of engineering principles, as well as applying mathematics to engineering problems.
The final two years are spent applying your knowledge to engineering problems.
You will complete an Individual Project in the final year: an opportunity to apply your knowledge and skills to devise an engineering solution at a professional level.
The Individual Project will be undertaken in collaboration with your employer, giving the company a tangible benefit.
Year 5
The degree apprenticeship has allowed me to develop my technical skills in all areas of engineering, not just my discipline, and given me the skills and confidence to expand my knowledge into cross-discipline projects.
During my time at the University of Exeter, I experienced the institution's unique commitment to incorporating industry needs into the curriculum, ensuring apprentices, including myself, gain relevant and up-to-date skills sought by employers.
After finishing my A-levels and starting my career, the idea of studying at a Russell Group university six years later seemed impossible.
However, with the degree apprenticeship, what once seemed impossible became a reality.
Looking back on my experience at the University of Exeter, I have fond memories that will stay with me forever.
Approximately 20 per cent of your contractual working time will be dedicated to study.
In-person teaching blocks form the majority of your off-the-job learning time.
Teaching blocks are structured in four 2-week blocks on the Streatham Campus in Exeter.
Study blocks comprise lectures, seminars, practical sessions and workshops.
During and outside of blocks, you will be supported by both your workplace mentor and your academic mentor.
You will discuss your progress regularly at review meetings.
As an apprentice, you will be a full salaried member of an organisation, typically earning between £13,000 and £19,000.
Much of your learning will take place at work, either through projects linked to academic content or time set aside for distance learning.
Apprentices will be working in an exciting and relevant job from day one of your studies, meaning when you graduate, you'll have both the professional and academic experience sought after by employers.
The apprenticeship standard defines an apprentice's capabilities as a Civil Engineer.
You will have gained experience in areas including project management; delivering large-scale projects on-budget; managing engineering practices in a safe and sustainable way; and communicating with clients and workers of all levels.
We are part of the South West Institute of Technology
Our Civil Engineering degree apprenticeship graduates will be competent, well-rounded, and ready to consider Chartership within a few years of completing the programme.
Our Degree Apprenticeships are built upon a strong foundation of partnership, with organisations and the University forming a crucial alliance.
We are your trusted partner by meeting stringent regulatory criteria.
Our expertise as a prestigious Russell Group member, our substantial investment and proven track record in effectively managing Degree Apprenticeships at scale further solidify this trust.
Our curriculum has been developed with industry to meet the ever-changing requirements of the built environment sector.
Whether you are seeking to attract new talent to your organisation or upskill existing team members, this programme will provide an innovative solution to your training needs.
Our dedicated partnerships team will work closely with you from recruitment to graduation and beyond.
Online

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/engineering:
BEng Engineering - 2026 entry
A level: AAB - ABB IB: 34/665-32/655 BTEC: DDD - DDM
*GCE A-Level/AS science includes : Biology/Human Biology**; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
For any questions relating to entry requirements please contact the team via our online form or +44 (0)1392 72 72 72 .
An Engineering Student
Our BEng Engineering programme allows you to experience the different areas of engineering before deciding which programme to follow.
The multidisciplinary ethos of the first year builds core theoretical and practical knowledge in all engineering disciplines, giving you the opportunity to specialise from your second year.
On progression to your second year you’ll have the opportunity to specialise in one of the core disciplines introduced in your first year:
You will study a number of core modules and, depending upon your choice of specialism, select additional optional modules to complete the year's credits and complement your chosen discipline.
The modules studied in your third year will further develop your specialism.
You will have the freedom to direct your studies, as you choose a larger number of the modules complementing the core teaching of the course.
Some programmes will require that you undertake a group or individual project at this stage.
Our graduates are now working for major international organisations in a diverse range of sectors, or have successfully launched their own companies.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/engineeringmeng:
MEng Engineering - 2026 entry
*GCE A-Level/AS science includes: Biology/Human Biology**; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths**; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Our MEng Engineering programme allows you to experience the different areas of engineering before deciding which programme to follow.
Final years (three and four)
The modules studied in your third and fourth years will further develop your specialism.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/eng-foundation:
BEng Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
*GCE A-Level/AS science includes: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
You must pass your foundation year and meet the progression criteria to progress to Year 1 of the BEng in Engineering with a foundation year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/electronic:
BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB-ABB IB: 34/665-32/655 BTEC: DDD–DDM
Year in Industry
Top 15 in the UK for Electronic Engineering
14th for Electrical & Electronic Engineering in The Complete University Guide 2025
Certain programmes are subject to accreditation and/ or review by professional and statutory regulatory bodies (PSRBs).
The Electrical and Electronic Engineering BEng (Hons) and Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Year in Industry BEng (Hons) are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) as:
See www.theiet.org for further information.
The dates applicable to the current accreditation of this degree programme can be viewed on the Engineering Council list of accredited degrees: www.engc.org.uk/acad .
I have always wanted to study engineering.
However, I was initially unsure whether I should study mechanical, electronic or materials.
During my first year, I became much more familiar with the different areas of engineering, and I found that electronics suited my passion.
Taking things from theory to practical design is my favourite part of the course.
In my second year we were tasked with creating a device or circuit design.
I think as engineers we always find making things the most rewarding part.
As part of my course, I did a placement with NXP Laboratories UK Ltd.
in Southampton.
It was a wonderful experience as I had the chance to work with senior engineers.
I was mainly responsible for practical testing and implementation .
I also had the chance to do some designing while I was there .
I created code and circuit designs that are actually going to be used in the final product for the company .
Read more from Yogen
Yogen
BEng Electronic Engineering With Year in Industry
Collaborative modules in your first year will give you a broad theoretical and practical knowledge across all core engineering disciplines.
As you progress through your degree you’ll study increasingly advanced topics aligned to our research strengths in areas such as communication and networking technologies, analogue and digital electronics design and microcontroller engineering.
Your second year will build on the knowledge gained in your first year as well as introducing you to new topics such as microcontrollers and digital electronics design.
You will also study exciting and topical areas of engineering mathematics.
In your final year you will complete a significant individual project.
Guided by a specialist academic supervisor, you’ll put into practice your research, project management and engineering skills and develop your own solution to a real-world electronic engineering challenge.
You'll also select from a range of optional modules to suit your interests.
The first year of the Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme is shared with all engineering disciplines and strikes a balance between providing core engineering and mathematical knowledge and making the learning experience engaging and exciting.
A year-long multi-disciplinary group project provides an over-arching vehicle for PBL and a means of putting core knowledge into practice in a collaborative group setting.
Project briefs are developed in response to the core module content.
To support the students’ project work they undertake workshops in sketching, report / technical writing and study / research skills.
Students develop essential knowledge in Engineering Mathematics and Scientific Computing through a year-long module.
By combining Mathematics and Programming, students develop both the mathematical knowledge that underpins engineering science and also the skills to put this knowledge to use by harnessing the power of programming.
The first year also includes three 15-credit modules, Fundamentals of Mechanics, Fundamentals of Materials, and Fundamentals of Electronic E.
All modules are delivered using a PBL framework that encourages students to become independent learners.
The second year continues in the same vein as the first with a combination of project work and core modules.
A group project again provides context and motivation for the theory taught in the second year.
This design and build project is electrical and electronic engineering specific with project briefs that allow students to experience the engineering design process and develop solutions drawing on the skills and knowledge gained in their first two years and adopting a heuristic approach to problem solving.
The practice of developing mathematical knowledge and programming skill in tandem continues in the second year with two modules; Modelling of Engineering Systems in term 1 and Industry 4.0 in term 2.
These modules not only develop traditional core mathematical knowledge but also introduce students to exciting and topical areas of engineering mathematics such as Data Science and Artificial Intelligence.
Core electrical and electronic engineering modules in Communication and Networking Technologies, Analogue and Digital Electronics Design, Control Engineering and Microcontroller Engineering introduce fundamental electronic engineering concepts with emphasis on developing hands-on practical skills and experience through prototyping and design laboratories.
If you are studying ‘with Year in Industry’ you will spend your third year on placement and carry out a 120-credit module.
For more information about the ‘with Year In Industry’ programme, please see the course variants .
a Select 15 credits of options from List A.
b Select 15 credits of options from List B.
The focus in year 3 is on acquiring further core Electrical and Electronic engineering knowledge.
Students will take modules in Mechatronics, Communications Engineering, Electric Machines and Power Electronics, and Engineering Electromagnetics.
All students select two of a number of optional modules; Digital Signal Processing, Power Systems Analysis, Energy, Materials and Sustainability, Industrial Awareness and Problem Solving, Quality Control & Improvement  or Zero Emission Vehicles.
Graduating BEng Students complete a 30 credit Individual Project guided by a specialist academic supervisor.
This project emphasises the development and application of advanced engineering knowledge and commercial awareness
ENG3018 Control Engineering is compulsory for any students who did not take ENS2005 during stage 2 and those students should take this module rather than an option in group B.
BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Year in Industry
UCAS code: H131
Our four-year ‘Year in Industry’ programme includes a paid placement in business or industry for the duration of your third year.
Recent projects include the development and investigation of a two way wireless charging system for mobile devices and designing a vehicular robot for landmine detection.
Career opportunities for engineers are almost limitless, as engineers can be found working in the public sector, in health, communications, education, construction, defence, finance and manufacturing.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/electronicmeng:
MEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAA IB: 36/666 BTEC: DDD
with Year in Industry
*GCE A-Level/AS science includes: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Design and Technology; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
The Electrical and Electronic Engineering MEng and Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Industrial Experience MEng are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) as fully satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
I thought engineering was designing cars or mending boilers, but during the London Paralympics I became fascinated with prosthesis and how engineers are designing devices that directly change human life and health.
I chose Exeter as tackling societal problems is something they are really passionate about.
Studied MEng Electronic Engineering
Year three includes advanced modules in mechatronics, communications engineering and engineering electromagnetics.
This year also includes a hands-on design and build project in which you will develop, prototype and explore the market for a solution to an electronic engineering challenge.
This is the largest single part of your degree and will give you an opportunity to develop deep knowledge and understanding in an area of your choice.
The first year also includes three 15-credit modules, Fundamentals of Mechanics, Fundamentals of Materials, and Fundamentals of Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
This project is electrical and electronic engineering specific with project briefs that allow students to draw on the skills and knowledge gained in their first two years.
These modules develop traditional core mathematical knowledge but also introduce students to exciting and topical areas of engineering mathematics such as Data Science and Artificial Intelligence.
b Select 15 credits of options from List B.
Students will take modules in Mechatronics, Communications Engineering, Electric Machines and Power Electronics,  and Engineering Electromagnetics.
All students select two of  a number of optional modules; Digital Signal Processing, Power System Analysis, Energy and the Environment, Industrial Awareness and Problem Solving, Quality Control & Improvement or Zero Emission Vehicles.
MEng students complete a hands-on design and build project that challenges them to develop, prototype and explore the market for a solution to an Electrical and Electronic engineering challenge.
This project emphasis the combination of commercial awareness and the application of sound engineering knowledge and practice.
ENG3018 is compulsory for any students who did not take ENS2005 during stage 2 and those students should take this module rather than an option in group B.
If you are studying ‘with Year in Industry’ you will spend your fourth year on placement and complete a 120-credit module.
For more information please see the course variants .
c Select 30 credits of options from List C.
d Select 30 credits of options from List D.
e You must choose ENS3014 Power Systems Analysis as one of your 15 credit options from List D if you did not take it in Stage 3.
MEng students in their graduating year complete a 45 credit individual investigative project in collaboration with a specialist academic supervisor.
This is the largest individual course element and provides students with the opportunity to develop deep knowledge and understanding in an area of their choice.
In contrast to collaborative group projects in earlier years , individual student effort will determine the success of this final capstone project.
The fourth year is structured such that students may select from a number of optional modules which reflect the research strength within Exeter Engineering.
As such, students will develop a comprehensive understanding of specialist topics in electrical and electronic engineering.
The fourth year culminates in the Exeter Engineering Conference.
An opportunity for MEng students to showcase their work from their third and fourth year projects to staff, other students and invited industry guests.
This event is both an assessment opportunity and an opportunity for students to put their best work forward in front of potential employers.
* ENGM009 Electric Machines and Power Electronics is compulsory for any students who did not take ENS3013  at stage three and these students should take this module in place of one option in group A.
* ENGM029 Power Systems Analysis is compulsory for any student who did not take ENS3014 at stage three and these students should take this module in place of one option in group B.
MEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Year in Industry
UCAS code: H132
Our five year 'with Year in Industry’ programme includes a paid placement in business or industry for the duration of your third year.
There are a few reasons why I picked the University of Exeter.
The campus is beautiful, and it is surrounded by greenery which I like.
Exeter’s engineering degrees are also more project based.
This means you get a mix of the academic and hands - on technical side.
A lot of universities are more focused on just the academic side.
I think the projects really help you understand the subject because you’re not just looking at lecture slides and hearing somebody talk, you are applying what you’re learning.
When I started at Exeter, I didn’t originally select the Year in Industry programme, but I changed to it during my second year.
I spent a year working at Intel , gaining industry experience and making contacts.
It was a great experience and I think it will be useful going forward for my career prospects.
MEng Electronic Engineering with Year in Industry
Recent projects have included the design of self-sustained miniature swarm robots.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/electronic-foundation:
BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Eligibility: UK ( Home Fee ) students who fulfil the criteria as shown within our eligibility criteria below.
C in Maths and B in a Science* (see below)
We will also accept AS Maths at A or Core Maths at A in lieu of A-Level Maths
*Accepted GCE A-Level/AS science subjects include: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics
The foundation course covers the core maths skills needed to progress onto our Year 1 of the BEng Electronic Engineering with Foundation Year programme, or have the opportunity to transfer to Year 1 of another programme with a foundation year provided you meet the entry requirements for that programme.
The Electronic Engineering BEng (Hons) Electronic Engineering with Year in Industry BEng (Hons) are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) as:
Visit our course pages for details of the Learning and Teaching methods on the BEng Civil Engineering or BEng Mechanical Engineering , BEng Engineering , BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering , BSc Mathematics , BSc Natural Sciences and BSc Physics degree programmes for the subsequent years of your chosen degree programme.
You will be allocated a personal tutor who will be happy to advise or put you in touch with support services, and you are encouraged to discuss subject-related questions with tutors and lecturers who advertise regular office hours.
You must pass your foundation year and meet the progression criteria to progress to Year 1 of the BEng in Electrical and Electronic Engineering with a foundation year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/entrepreneurshipbeng:
BEng Engineering and Entrepreneurship - 2026 entry
Chance to launch your own business in the UK
If you need a visa to work in the UK you’ll be pitching for an endorsement from the University and visa application costs to apply for a one year start up visa
*GCE A-Level/AS science includes: Biology/Human Biology**; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Exeter is a fantastic place to live and an even better place to learn.
The opportunities and equipment available to us here is just absolutely phenomenal.
It's unmatched.
I've had the most amazing time and I’m looking forward to my fourth year.
I love engineering because of the diversity it gives you and the multitude of avenues that you have available to you.
You could decide to be a pure mechanical engineer, or you can go more down the route I've chosen and use your engineering skills and become an entrepreneur.
At Exeter, you have the option to do a range of different modules to make yourself more well-rounded.
Over the last few months, I have been building a company of my own using all the skills I’ve learnt.
The business 3D prints patient specific instrumentation for hip surgeries.
We're creating drill guides and custom surgical instruments which surgeons can use to make their operations better.
MEng Engineering and Entrepreneurship
This three-year programme marries theory and practice, giving you the opportunity to develop as an engineer and an entrepreneur.
Your studies will follow Exeter’s think-try-do process of innovation, developing your ideas and technical know-how to the point of setting up your own company.
You will be encouraged to take risks and, within the supportive community and environment of the department, will be given room to make mistakes in order to learn from them.
In your second year the modules start to take a more specialised pathway with a focus on entrepreneurship and manufacturing.
In the final year of your degree you’ll put into practice your research, project management and engineering skills through an extended individual project.
You will also take advanced entrepreneurship modules on topics such as marketing, management and industrial awareness - preparing you for the chance to take your business forward with the university’s support by pitching your engineering idea to a panel of judges.
This programme gives you the opportunity to develop as an engineer alongside having the freedom to innovate, developing your skills as a successful entrepreneur.
In addition to academic lectures, you will attend talks and seminars given by experienced entrepreneurs and business leaders.
As your degree progresses, you will be encouraged to put your knowledge and ideas into practice, learning through experience of a group project.
The course is structured around Exeter’s THINK-TRY-DO approach to innovative thinking.
As you progress you will be given the space to try your own ideas, with assessment placing as much value on the process of learning as on whether or not your endeavours are successful.
You’ll typically have between 25 and 32 hours of direct contact time per week with your tutors and you will be expected to supplement your lectures with independent study.
After successfully getting funding for my proposition, I am now using it to get equipment to help me research and develop my business idea and to work on branding.
I’ve also recently attended a boot camp at University of California Berkley.
The event was really unique and focused on venture capital as a means of funding and launching a business and has helped me refine my idea and to focus on the potential for commercial success, longevity and scale the business could achieve.
The business that I am developing aims to help surfers improve their technique by making high quality and consistent media capture more accessible.
I am planning on doing this by leveraging camera technologies, AI, and existing technology in the surf industry and then creating a platform where this media and information can be easily accessed and shared by the surfers who use it.
I hope that I will be able to continue working on the idea after the course has come to an end, and I am planning on using the last few months of the course to build the links and network that I need to make that a possibility.
Read more from Charlie
Charlie
Final year entrepreneur
Our engineering and entrepreneurship degrees aim to help you develop an entrepreneurial mind-set, equipping you with the practical toolkit necessary to inspire innovative ideas, create entrepreneurial engineering solutions to real-world challenges, undertake rigorous market validation and develop and launch viable and sustainable new enterprises.
Our graduates excel in specialist engineering fields and across a broad range of other sectors; some have also gone on to successfully launch their own businesses, taking their engineering solutions to market.
Throughout your degree you’ll attend talks and seminars given by experienced entrepreneurs and business leaders.
You’ll also have the opportunity to meet with graduate employers.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/engineering-entrepreneurship:
MEng Engineering and Entrepreneurship - 2026 entry
At the end of my third year, I successfully pitched my business idea and I’m going to receive £10,000 to pursue my own business next year as part of my degree.
This course blends technical engineering with the many factors that contribute towards the successful development of innovative products, processes or services.
Modules in your third year will focus on the primary areas of engineering and entrepreneurship, such as: operations management, quality control and improvement, global entrepreneurial marketing, industrial awareness, management and leadership.
You’ll also complete a hands-on design and build project that challenges you to develop, prototype (at scale) and explore the market for a solution to an engineering challenge.
You will be encouraged to put your knowledge and ideas into practice, learning through personal experience while fully supported by your tutors and an industry mentor.
Your final year will see you launching and reflecting upon your own start-up or engineering project, providing the perfect springboard for a prosperous professional future.
If you are studying ‘with Year in Industry’ you will spend your fourth year on placement and carry out a 120 credit module.
This MEng programme has two different routes into Year 4.
At the beginning of Term 2 of Year 3 you will submit an application for your start-up funding.
If your application is successful, you will enrol onto the Start-up Pathway.
All other students enrol onto the Innovation Pathway.
The Start-up pathway sees successful students enrolling onto the Business Start-Up module in which you will spend your final year launching your own company with the support of the University.
In your final year you will complete a 45 credit individual project in collaboration with an academic supervisor.
This is the largest single part of your degree and provides you with the opportunity to develop deep knowledge and understanding in an area of your choice.
The fourth year culminates in the Exeter Engineering Conference where you will be able to showcase your work from your final projects to staff and guests from industry.
This event is a great opportunity to put your best work in front of potential employers.
MEng Engineering and Entrepreneurship with Year in Industry
UCAS code: H701
Visit the Tuition Fees page for more information.
At the end of the third year I successfully pitched my business idea which was based on a product design and business plan I’d come up with through my coursework.
I received £10,000 funding to take the proposal forward in my final year.
I’ve spent some of my budget on research and development for products and travelling to get to places to speak to people and learn things such as a recent trip to University of California, Berkeley, where I attended a boot camp for entrepreneurs.
If you’re interested in wanting to be your own boss, starting a business and combining this with engineering then this course is a no brainer.
Read more from Lewis
Lewis
MEng in Engineering and Entrepreneurship
Our engineering and entrepreneurship degrees aim to help you develop an entrepreneurial mind-set.
You will graduate with the practical toolkit necessary to inspire innovative ideas, create entrepreneurial engineering solutions to real-world challenges, undertake rigorous market validation and develop and launch viable and sustainable new enterprises.
Our graduates excel in specialist engineering fields and across a broad range of other sectors and some have also gone on to successfully launch their own businesses, taking their engineering solutions to market.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/management:
BEng Engineering and Management - 2026 entry
A level: AAB - ABB IB: 34/665 - 32/655 BTEC: DDD - DDM
Taught in partnership with the University of Exeter’s triple accredited Business School
The Engineering and Management BEng (Hons) and Engineering and Management with Year in Industry BEng (Hons) are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) as:
The dates applicable to the current accreditation of this degree programme can be viewed on the Engineering Council list of accredited degrees .
Engineering and Management combines fundamental engineering knowledge and skills with enhanced management theory and practice, allowing you to develop as an engineer and a manager.
The multidisciplinary ethos of the first year builds core theoretical and practical knowledge in mechanical, materials, manufacturing and electronic engineering, plus engineering mathematics.
In your final year you’ll study advanced management topics and put your research, project management and engineering skills into practice through an extended individual project.
If you are studying ‘with Year in Industry’ you will spend your third year on placement and carry out a 120 credit module.
BEng Engineering and Management with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: HN13
Recent projects have involved designing a transaction filter for cryptocurrency exchange, developing a tool to help the food industry move towards a circular economy and using AI to optimize domestic energy use.
This degree programme combines technical engineering training with management and is designed for those who will become future managers in a wide range of careers in: manufacturing or technical service industries; transport; communication; environment or leisure.
It is also suitable for general managers who need a background in engineering; or management consultants or accountants who require further specialised training.
On completing this accredited programme you'll become a qualified engineer but with the added benefit of management strings to your bow.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/managementmeng:
MEng Engineering and Management - 2026 entry
The Engineering and Management MEng and Engineering and Management with Year in Industry MEng are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) as:
Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject (A-Level Maths is still required): Applied Science, Aeronautical Engineering, Building Services Engineering Construction and the Built Environment, Civil Engineering, Operations and Maintenance Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical/Electronic Engineering, Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Environmental Sustainability.
Applicants studying one of the following subjects in the BTEC Diploma or BTEC Extended Certificate will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject (A-Level Maths is still required): Applied Science, Engineering.
In your third year you will complete a hands-on design and build project that challenges you to develop, prototype (at scale) and explore the market for a solution to an engineering management challenge.
This project emphasises applying the combination of commercial awareness and sound engineering knowledge.
I have always really liked maths and physics.
A lot of people in my family are engineers so it felt logical to study engineering.
I wasn’t too sure which area I wanted to specialise in though.
The degree at Exeter looked perfect because you get to see all the different areas of engineering.
I think the engineering and management aspects of the course work really well together as you develop the skills to work across a whole project.
I did my placement at Air Products, an industrial gas company.
I was working just outside London in their hydrogen department.
While I was there, I was helping to develop a hydrogen refuelling station as well as a source of green and renewable hydrogen for heavy good s vehicles.
It was a very interesting and innovative place to work .
T he placement was definitely an invaluable experience.
Read more from Teobaldo
Teobaldo
MEng Engineering and Management with Year in Industry
MEng Engineering and Management with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: NH13
Recent projects have involved designing a smart building crisis management system and creating Exeter’s Formula Student racing car.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/environmentalfoundation:
BEng Environmental Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Streatham Campus (year 1) and Penryn Campus (years 2-4)
Please note: year 1 of this course is taught at Streatham Campus in Exeter (Devon).
For years 2-4 you will then move to Penryn Campus (Cornwall).
Please note: As part of our ongoing commitment towards improving the student experience at Exeter, we are introducing a new foundation-level year to our Engineering degrees from September 2022.
Visit the course page for BEng Environmental Engineering for more details about the learning and teaching methods for the subsequent years of your degree programme.
You will benefit from teaching by academic staff comprising of internationally recognised experts active across a wide range of topics in your chosen degree programme.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/mechanical:
BEng Mechanical Engineering - 2026 entry
Top 10 in the UK for Mechanical Engineering
9th in the Guardian University Guide 2025
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering and BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering with Year in Industry are accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
The accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering will meet, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Students will need to complete an approved format of further learning pursuant to the requirements of UK-SPEC*.
See details on further learning on the IMechE website.
*UK-SPEC is the UK Standard for Professional Engineering Competence.
For any questions relating to entry requirements please contact the team via our online form or +44 (0)1392 72 72 72.
Coming to look at the campus and the city really helped paint a picture of what to expect as a student at Exeter.
I was really impressed with how welcoming the staff were and the tour of the engineering department and labs was a real bonus.
Read more from Adam
Adam
Studying BEng Mechanical Engineering
This gives you the option to transfer to another engineering discipline at the end of your first year.
As you progress , you’ll study increasingly advanced topics aligned to our research strengths: in areas such as structural dynamics, mechatronics, materials and thermodynamics.
The final year of your degree includes a substantial individual project in which you will put into practice your research, project management and engineering skills, engaging you in the development of your own real-world solution to an engineering challenge.
Optional modules allow you to study specialist topics in mechanical engineering.
BEng Mechanical Engineering with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: H304
Recent projects have involved development of a steering control system for an all-terrain vehicle and 3D optimisation of a conceptual aircraft.
My absolute highlight of my years at Exeter was designing and building the XR06 Formula Student car with the XRacing Formula Student Team.
Working with a great bunch of people on a project as exciting as a race car has been an amazing experience and inspired me to pursue a career in automotive industry.
Maximilian
BEng Mechanical Engineering (2019)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/mechanicalmeng:
MEng Mechanical Engineering - 2026 entry
MEng Mechanical Engineering and MEng Mechanical Engineering with Year in Industry are accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
The accredited MEng Mechanical Engineering fully meets the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements, for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without a GCE A-Level science subject (A-Level Maths is still required): Applied Science, Aeronautical Engineering, Building Services Engineering, Construction and the Built Environment, Civil Engineering, Operations and Maintenance Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical/Electronic Engineering, Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Environmental Sustainability.
The focus in year 3 is on acquiring core mechanical engineering knowledge.
You will study topics such as materials, structural dynamics, thermodynamics and control engineering.
A major part of your third year will be a hands-on design and build project that challenges you to develop, prototype (at scale) and explore the market for a solution to a mechanical engineering challenge.
The year culminates in the Exeter Engineering Conference where you will be able to showcase your work from your final projects to staff and guests from industry.
Take a look at our course variants for further information.
MEng Mechanical Engineering with Year in Industry
UCAS code: H307
Our five year ‘with Year in Industry’ programme takes an extra year to complete and includes a paid placement in business or industry for the duration of your fourth year.
Recent projects have involved the hybridisation of an off-road vehicle and constructing Exeter’s Formula Student racing car.
The opportunities to be involved with real projects such as the Formula Student team as well as within the academic projects in third and fourth year allowed the taught content to be put into practice.
Real projects also developed manufacturing skills and an appreciation for the importance of design for manufacture, vital engineering lessons for my future career.
Matthew
MEng Mechanical Engineering (2019)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/mechanical-foundation:
BEng Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Check if you are eligible to join this programme on our contextual offer webpages.
*Accepted GCE A-Level/AS science subjects include: Biology/Human Biology**; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics
The foundation course covers the core maths skills needed to progress onto our Year 1 of the BEng Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year programme, or have the opportunity to transfer to Year 1 of another programme with a foundation year provided you meet the entry requirements for that programme.
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year is accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
The accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year will meet, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
You must pass your foundation year and meet the progression criteria to progress to Year 1 of the BEng in Mechanical Engineering with a foundation year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.
Professional engineers visit the University to hold mock interviews, allowing you to discuss your career opportunities at an early enough stage to inform your choice of modules and placement decisions.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/energy/energy-engineering-beng:
BEng Renewable Energy Engineering - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB - ABB IB: 34/665 - 32/655 BTEC: DDD - DDM
New state-of-the-art Renewable Engineering Energy Facility (REEF) provides dedicated workshop and laboratory space
Top 40 in the world for Environmental Science and Engineering
37th in the Global Ranking of Academic Subjects (GRAS) or Shanghai Rankings 2024
Accredited by the Energy Institute (EI) on behalf of the Engineering Council to fully meet the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer, and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council, for the purposes of partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
For any questions relating to entry requirements please contact the team via our online form or 01392 724061
I love my course as it’s so practical, I really feel like I’m applying the knowledge I’m gaining into practice.
We do lots of hands-on work learning how to put up wind turbines or how to build solar panels and motors.
I’ve learned loads of new skills like soldering and riveting, which is all important for my future career.
The support from lecturers has been great.
As it’s a developing field there is always a lot to discuss, we’re encouraged to ask questions and they always turn into open discussions with the whole cohort.
Read more from Sarah
Sarah
Studying Renewable Energy Engineering BEng
Your first year focusses on engineering fundamentals including mathematics, mechanical and electronic engineering.
In the second year, you'll continue to develop your knowledge of key disciplines with additional topics on clean energy systems.
In the summer vacation between your second and third year, you may carry out a minimum six-week industrial placement.
The onus is on you to select the area in which you wish to work and to find a placement, although the University can help by providing contact details and suggesting companies which suit your interests.
Companies with close ties to the department also provide placements for a number of students.
An undergraduate dissertation forms an important element of the work in your third year, allowing you to explore areas of particular interest and develop research, analytical and writing skills.
Optional topics include specific clean or renewable energy technologies such as solar power, wind energy, marine renewables and energy storage.
Field trips and industry visits are a cornerstone of Renewable Energy programmes, offering you invaluable hands-on experience in real-world settings.
Throughout your degree you will interact with a range of renewable energy technologies.
This will include trips to renewable energy facilities such as Goonhilly Wind Farm, local solar PV farms, micro and large hydro, landfill gas production, large-scale gas generation and other relevant installations.
In Year 1 , you’ll visit an off-grid field centre in Exmoor, where you’ll learn how renewables are used to meet energy demands in remote locations.
You’ll have the chance to actively scope new projects to improve the centre's energy system, gaining practical insights into the challenges and opportunities of off-grid renewable solutions.
In Year 2 , you’ll explore larger-scale renewable energy sites across the South West, including a visit to the renowned Eden Project.
Here, see how renewable technologies are applied on a bigger scale, from solar power to biomass, and understand the infrastructure and operations behind such projects.
These visits provide a deeper look into the industry and help prepare you for careers in large-scale energy systems.
By Year 3 , you’ll be ready for more advanced fieldwork, working closely with local communities in locations such as the Channel Islands, Scottish islands, or Ireland.
You’ll review existing energy systems and collaborate with residents to identify potential for renewable energy solutions, such as electric vehicles or hydrogen technology.
This practical experience helps ensure you develop the skills to not only design sustainable energy systems but also engage with communities to ensure successful implementation.
Our new state-of-the-art Renewable Engineering Energy Facility (REEF) is equipped for the study of a number of renewable energy technologies, both practically and with industry-standard software.
A variety of devices producing renewable energy exist around the campus, the latest being a 50kW solar PV installation on top of our engineering building, to go with a solar-powered Performance Centre.
The development of our Environment and Sustainability Institute at the Penryn Campus has seen a significant further expansion of installed renewable energy capacity on campus, representing the continuing commitment of the University to sustainability in our operations, teaching and research.
This might include practical laboratory work, professional posters, group exercises, reports, essays or verbal presentations.
Option modules can extend beyond your main subject area if you are studying a Single Honours degree: dependent on timetable constraints, pre-requisites and programme structure, it may be possible to study option modules outside your subject area.
This degree programme has been designed to include the knowledge and skills that potential employers in the energy sector have told us they require.
A very high proportion of our graduates find employment in the renewable energy sector or study for a higher degree in the field.
The UK’s commitment to expansion of renewable energy is likely to mean a high level of investment in the sector in the next decade.
The adoption of the UK’s microgeneration tariff in 2010, the phased adoption of the Renewable Heat Incentive from 2011-2014 and introduction of Contracts for Difference from 2014, suggests continued strong support for rapid expansion of renewable energy in the UK.
All EU countries are making similar investments and the US, India, China and many other nations are also investing heavily in the renewable generation.
This will create broad opportunities for those seeking to work in the sector, both nationally and internationally.
The global renewables sector has seen investment in excess of $289bn in 2017 and that investment has been over $200bn every year since 2010.
A total of 10.3 million people now work in renewables around the world.
Our Renewable Energy programmes will shape you into a multi-talented individual, who is able to succeed in a wide variety of professional roles.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Renewable Energy but also in wider fields.
View all Renewable Energy courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/energy/energy-engineering-meng:
MEng Renewable Energy Engineering - 2026 entry
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1326 371801
Accredited by the Energy Institute (EI) and the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) , on behalf of the Engineering Council, for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
I am so excited to have been offered the position of Graduate Engineer with Vestas, as it is essentially my dream job.
I feel like the MEng Renewable Energy course has been crucial to put me ahead of the competition and build my confidence, and so I am grateful the university for making it such a wonderful learning experience.
This new role will really allow me to have an impact on the future of wind energy in the UK and internationally and I cannot wait to get started.
Read more from Valentine
Valentine
Graduated Renewable Energy Engineering MEng
Your first year focusses on engineering fundamentals including Mathematics, Mechanical and Electronic Engineering.
In the second year, you'll continue to develop your knowledge of key disciplines with additional topics on Clean Energy Systems.
The final year of study for MEng students offers a wide range of advanced specialist modules including a group project.
This is an opportunity to further develop teamwork and research skills.
Alongside these are optional modules on the advanced aspects of renewable energy engineering.
Standard progression to Stage 2: Students will have passed all 120 credits of Stage 1 modules each with an overall mark of 40% or higher.
Standard progression to Stage 3 of the MEng: Students will have passed all 120 credits of Stage 2 modules each with an overall mark of 40% or higher, and will normally have gained a stage average of 60% or higher.
MEng Students failing to meet this average mark, but who satisfy the progression requirements for the BEng Renewable Energy Engineering programme will be considered for transfer to the equivalent BEng programme.
MEng Renewable Energy Engineering with Industrial Experience
UCAS code: H805
The MEng Renewable Energy Engineering with Industrial Experience programme includes an industrial placement prior to the start of your third year, followed by a research project based on your placement experience.
Your placement will be spent working in an appropriate business or industry related to energy engineering, and you will benefit from our established connections with local, national and multinational organisations.
We find that our students gain valuable experience from working in industry.
As well as increasing their first-hand knowledge, they also improve personal and transferable skills, make new contacts and enhance their employability.
If you study the MEng programme, you’ll carry out a further industrial placement between your third and fourth year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/energy/renewable-foundation:
BEng Renewable Energy Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Streatham Campus, Exeter (year 1) , and Penryn Campus, Cornwall (years 2-4)
Eligibility: UK ( Home Fee ) students who fulfil the eligibility criteria as shown below.
For years 2-4 you will then move to the Penryn Campus (Cornwall).
If you are an international student looking for a Foundation course, please visit our INTO page .
Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without A-Level maths and science subjects:
12 L3 credits at Pass Grade in Maths and 12 L3 credits at Merit grade in a Science subject
N/A
*GCE A-Level science subjects include: Biology/Human Biology**; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Visit our course pages for details of the Learning and Teaching methods on the BEng Renewable Energy Engineering , BEng Engineering , BEng Mechanical Engineering , BEng Electronic Engineering , BEng Civil Engineering , BSc Mathematics , BSc Natural Sciences and BSc Physics degree programmes for the subsequent years of your chosen degree programme.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/robotics:
BEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence - 2026 entry
Robotics and artificial intelligence are pivotal to modern society, with increasing demand for skilled professionals.
In your first year on the course, you'll build a solid foundation in mechanical, electronic and materials engineering.
As you advance, you'll specialise in robotics and artificial intelligence, delving into autonomous systems, machine learning and intelligent robotics.
Key topics include robot sensing, path planning and AI-driven decision-making.
The course features extensive hands-on projects, allowing you to apply theory and develop practical skills.
You'll work on exciting projects such as developing self-driving vehicles and creating advanced robotic manipulators.
If you are interested in Formula Student, you have the option to join the student team to build and program a fully autonomous car.
If your team passes the selection process and demonstrates strong project development, you will have the opportunity to participate in the Formula Student AI competition at Silverstone circuit.
The first year of the Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Engineering programme is shared with all engineering disciplines and strikes a balance between providing core engineering and mathematical knowledge and making the learning experience engaging and exciting.
The first also includes three 15-credit modules, 'Fundamentals of Mechanics', 'Fundamentals of Materials', and 'Fundamentals of Electronics'.
The second year continues in the same vein as the first, with a combination of project work and core modules.
A robotic challenge project again provides context and motivation for the theory taught in the second year.
This project is robotics and artificial intelligence engineering-specific and centres on the concept of robotics and artificial intelligence design, with project briefs that allow students to draw on the skills and knowledge gained in their first two years.
The importance of mathematics in engineering is considered in Modelling of Engineering Systems in Term 1.
Term 1 also focuses on the importance of communication and network technologies, along with electronic design principles, which are fundamental in hardware robotics applications.
Term 2 is centred on the introduction of control engineering topics, essential to achieve autonomy in AI systems, with also a strong attention to microcontroller engineering.
The practice of developing software knowledge and programming skill in tandem continues in the second year with  a new module: Python and ROS for robotics in Term 2.
The focus in year 3 is on acquiring core Robotics and Artificial Intelligence engineering knowledge.
Students will take modules in Machine Learning and AI, Distributed Algorithms for Robotics, and Optimisation Methods with strong applications to autonomous intelligent systems.
Graduating BEng students complete a 30-credit Individual Investigate Project guided by a specialist academic supervisor.
The project will focus on applied and fundamental research investigation in the area of Robotics and Artificial Intelligence.
You will benefit from state-of-the-art teaching lab spaces equipped with the latest robotics equipment.
These facilities provide hands-on experience, allowing you to experiment, innovate and apply theoretical knowledge to practical scenarios.
Robotics and artificial intelligence are among the fastest-growing fields, creating a high demand for skilled professionals to drive innovation.
As a graduate, you'll be highly sought after for your expertise in autonomous systems, machine learning and intelligent robotics.
You'll bring strong technical skills, including proficiency in programming languages and software, along with essential abilities in analytics, problem-solving and project management.
The practical experience gained at Exeter will set you apart from other graduates, as you will have applied theoretical knowledge to real-world industry challenges.
Your specialised skills will position you as a valuable asset in diverse sectors, including manufacturing, product development and software engineering.
With a robust foundation in engineering, mathematics, computer science, robotics and AI, you will be well-equipped to shape the future of technology.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/roboticsmeng:
MEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence - 2026 entry
In your fourth year, you’ll put your skills into practice with an individual investigative project.
The first  year also includes three 15-credit modules, 'Fundamentals of Mechanics', 'Fundamentals of Materials', and 'Fundamentals of Electronics'.
The practice of developing software knowledge and programming skill in tandem continues in the second year with one module: Python and ROS for robotics in Term 2.
MEng students complete a hands-on design and build project that challenges them to develop, prototype (at scale), and explore the market for a solution to a Robotics and AI Engineering challenge.
This project emphasises the combination of commercial awareness and the application of sound engineering knowledge.
75 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules.
MEng students in their graduating year complete a 45 credit individual investigate project in collaboration with a specialist academic supervisor.
In contrast to collaborative group projects in earlier years that emphasise the importance of collaboration, individual student effort will determine the success of this final capstone project.
The fourth year is structured such that students may follow one of two exciting and topical specialisms that leverage the research expertise of Exeter engineering academics.
These streams are the Advanced Control, Computational and Autonomy Stream, and the Communication and Data-Centric Stream.
Each stream is defined by a number of core and optional modules that allow students to develop a comprehensive understanding of specialist topics in robotics and autonomous engineering.
An opportunity for MEng students to showcase their work from their third- and fourth-year projects to staff, other students and invited industry guests.
This event is both an assessment and an opportunity for students to put their best work forward in front of potential employers.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/roboticsfoundation:
BEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
*GCE AL/AS science includes: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Visit the course page for BEng Robotics and Artificial Intelligence for more details about the learning and teaching methods for the subsequent years of your degree programme.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/systems:
BEng Systems Engineering - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB-ABB IB: 34/665-32/655 BTEC: DDD-DDM
As you progress through your degree, your modules will become more specialised, with a focus on systems engineering.
You will be equipped with the skills to design, integrate and manage complex systems across a range of industries.
The course combines core engineering principles with the development of key team-working and project management skills, along with the interdisciplinary application of systems integration and risk management.
You will learn to apply systems thinking to real-world industry problems and gain practical experience through challenge projects in each year of the programme.
Opportunities for industry placements will allow you to develop as an engineer in a professional environment and put your theoretical knowledge into practice, ensuring you graduate with the skillset employers are looking for.
Systems engineering is an increasingly important field, driven by the complex challenges facing society.
Upon graduation, you will be well-prepared to apply your systems thinking to real-world problems and to leverage your expertise in systems integration, risk management and interdisciplinary engineering.
These skills are highly sought by employers and will open doors to careers in diverse sectors, including aerospace, automotive, energy, telecommunications and manufacturing.
You may find roles in systems design and development, project management and consultancy, among others.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/systemsmeng:
MEng Systems Engineering - 2026 entry

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/systemsfoundation:
BEng Systems Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
*GCE A-Level/AS sciences include: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computer Science; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Visit the course page for BEng Systems Engineering for more details about the learning and teaching methods for the subsequent years of your degree programme.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/engineering/energy-engineering-zjut:
BEng Energy and Environmental Engineering (at ZJUT, China) - 2026 entry
BEng Energy and Environmental Engineering is a joint programme that offers high-quality teaching, a carefully designed curriculum and strong student support, all shaped by Exeter’s academic standards.
This programme covers core modules such as:
These will prepare you to solve complex energy and environmental problems using cutting-edge tools and technologies.
You'll explore sustainable technologies through modules on Renewable Energy Systems, Solar Power, Wind Energy and Marine Renewable Energy.
Advanced topics include Energy Storage Technology, Thermodynamics and Environmental and Sustainable Technologies.
Practical skills are developed through Applied Computing for Energy Studies, Modelling of Engineering Systems and a multi-disciplinary project, while topics like the Communication and Climate Crisis prepare you to lead in the global energy transition.
You'll also complete a Final Project, tackling a real-world problem where you can innovate and showcase your expertise.
Graduates are equipped for exciting roles in renewable energy design, environmental consultancy, sustainable infrastructure and energy innovation.
This programme empowers you to lead the green transition - locally and globally - with technical expertise and a commitment to sustainability at the heart of your career.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english/english:
BA English - 2026 entry
Unique on-site resources: Exeter’s Special Collections archive and The Bill Douglas Cinema Museum
You will explore the work of some of the giants of English literature as well as discovering more unusual works from the past and engaging literary and cultural works from the contemporary moment.
At Streatham, our team’s vast expertise offers plenty of choice so you can develop an understanding of many different genres and forms of writing.
As well as covering the full breadth of the English literary landscape from the Middle Ages to the 21st century, our degree programmes give you the opportunity to learn about the history of cinema, study creative writing (poetry, prose and screenplays), and you’ll also encounter global literatures and digital media.
Indeed, the range of media we cover on our modules is vast: as well as plays, novels, poetry, and short stories, we engage with film, television, video games, graphic novels and the creative industries.
a - You must choose at least one module from this group : you may select 30-60 credits of optional modules from this group.
b - You must choose at least one module from this group : you may select 30-60 credits of optional modules from this group.
c - You may select 0-60 credits of optional modules from this group (although you are not required to choose any from this group).
d - You must select EAS3003: Dissertation, EAS3122: Creative writing Dissertation or EAS3510 Dissertation by Collaborative Project (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
e - You must select either EAS3195: Acts of Writing: From Decolonisation to Globalisation, EAS3179: Life and Death in Early Modern Literature or EAS3234: Citizens of the World
BA English with Study Abroad
UCAS code: Q313
BA English with Employment Experience
UCAS code: Q315
BA English with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: Q316
The ratio of formal exam to coursework is on average 40:60.
*  Please note that, due to data protection, the job titles and organisations are listed independently and do not necessarily correspond.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english/creative:
BA English and Creative Writing - 2026 entry
A thriving and supportive writing community - our team of prize-winning and best-selling authors will help you develop your creative writing skills
I found kindred spirits in my peers and mentors in my professors, people who loved what I loved and wanted to discuss it.
The English and Creative Writing community is tight-knit as well - I often feel like everybody knows everybody.
You are never alone at events, because you always have someone looking out for you.
BA English and Creative Writing
a – you must pick at least one of these modules; you may pick both
60 credits of optional English modules and 60 credits of optional Creative Writing modules
a - select 60 credits from this list of optional Creative Writing modules.
You must choose one of EAS2031 or EAS2032 (you may choose both modules).
b - select 0-30 credits of optional modules from this group (subject to choosing 60 credits in total from groups 1, 2 and 3 of English options).
c - You may select 0-30 credits of optional modules from this group (subject to choosing 60 credits in total from groups 1, 2 and 3 of English options).
d - You may select 0-30 credits of optional modules from this group (subject to choosing 60 credits in total from groups 1, 2 and 3 of English options).
NB EAF2510 Adaptation: Text, Image Culture can be taken as either Creative Writing or English credits.
30 credits of compulsory dissertation modules, 90 credits of optional modules ensuring you take 60 credits of Creative Writing module and 60 credits of English modules.
e - select either EAS3003 or EAS3122 or EAS3510 (you can only select one of these modules).
If you select EAS3003 or EAS3510 you must take 60 credits from this list of optional Creative Writing modules.
If you select EAS3122, you must take 60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
f - select 30-60 credits from this list of optional Creative Writing modules (if you select EAS3003 you must take 60 credits from this list of optional Creative Writing modules; if you select EAS3122, you must take 30 credits from this list of optional Creative Writing modules).
g - select 30-60 credits from this list of optional English modules (if you select EAS3122 you must take 60 credits from this list of optional English modules; if you select EAS3003, you must take 30 credits from this list of optional English modules).
BA English and Creative Writing with Study Abroad
UCAS code: Q318
BA English and Creative Writing with Employment Experience
UCAS code: Q319
UCAS code: Q320

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english/film:
BA English and Film & Television Studies - 2026 entry
Top 10 in the Russell Group for student satisfaction in English and Film
In all seven themes (National Student Survey 2024: Film and English)
The course has lived up to and exceeded my expectations.
Every lecture is interesting and the seminars are thought provoking.
One of the best parts about film is the approachability and helpfulness of the academics and how our cohort is a tight knit group.
We benefit from the cutting-edge research of the academics which makes the course contemporary and has often changed my world view on certain aspects.
I have learnt to read quicker and have sharpened all of my analysis skills.
I often go into professor's office house and use the Royal Literary Fellows who are professionals who help edit your essays and improve your writing skills.
Read more from Christina
Christina
BA English and Film & Television Studies
90 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional English modules
a - You must select 30 credits from this list of optional English modules; you may not choose EAS1034 Film Studies: An Introduction
120 credits of optional modules,
b - select 30-60 credits from this list of optional Film Studies modules.
c - select 30-60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30-60 credits of English modules, and 30-60 credits of Film Studies modules)
e - You must choose either EAF3514 Film Studies Dissertation, EAF3516 Creative Film Dissertation, EAS3003 Dissertation (English), or EAS3122 Creative Writing Dissertation  (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
f - If you select EAS3003 or EAS3122, you must take 60 credits from this list of optional Film Studies modules.
g - If you select either EAF3514 or EAF3516, you must take 60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
BA English and Film & Television Studies with Study Abroad
UCAS code: Q3W7
BA English and Film & Television Studies with Employment Experience
UCAS code: Q3W8
BA English and Film & Television Studies with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: Q3W9
We use a variety of learning and teaching methods, including lectures, seminars, screenings, student study groups and web and IT resources.
All our modules centre the learning experience on seminars, involving groups of between 10 and 20 students, typically running for two hours.
Many modules are supported by weekly 50-minute lectures.
Students often prepare for seminars by involvement in student study groups, which encourage collaboration and team working.
Typical contact time with academic staff is 10 hours per week, on top of which you’re expected to attend other activities such as study groups, workshop activities and film screenings.
Students studying Film and a Modern Language may have a few extra hours as language study is necessarily intensive.
Most of your work will be done in group and self-directed study: viewing and reading module material, writing essays or preparing material for seminar presentations.
Assessment in English is through a mixture of methods that includes essays and a dissertation as well as exams and presentation work.
The ratio of formal exam to continuous assessment is on average 40:60.
For your Film Studies modules, you’ll be assessed by a combination of exams, essays, presentations and ‘sequence analysis’ (the close reading of film clips).
You will have to pass the assessments in your first year in order to proceed to the second year but they do not count toward your final degree classification.
The assessments in the second year and the final year will contribute to your degree classification.
Through a balance of independent study and teamwork you will learn to manage your time and workload effectively
* This information has been taken from the Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) Surveys 14/15, 15/16, 16/17 and 17/18.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english/history:
BA English and History - 2026 entry
You will explore the work of some of the giants of English literature and go on an exciting journey across a diverse range of Anglophone literatures.
You will read works of literature spanning the Middle Ages to the 21st century in their historical context, learning how and why certain literary forms emerged when they did.
We will introduce you to traditional and emerging cultural forms from novels to digital culture and expose you to writers from across the globe.
Our history expertise covers areas such as migration and mobility, indigenous peoples in Latin America, the history of health and its politics, women in society, the Vikings, magic and witchcraft in early modern Europe, and histories of material things.
In your final year you will have the opportunity to delve into a topic that interests you for your History Research Project.
You will have the flexibility to choose History and English modules that complement each other, enabling you to fully immerse yourself in the real world behind the story.
45 credits of compulsory History modules, 30 credits of compulsory English modules, 15 credits of optional History modules, 30 credits of optional English modules.
a Take EAS1035 (30 credits) + select 30 credits from this list of optional English (EAS-coded) modules
b Take HIH1137 + select one module from the group of Understanding History modules (HIH1421 or HIH1422)
c Select 15 credits from this list of optional History (HIH-coded) modules.
Select 30 credits from this list of optional English modules
Select 15 credits from this list of optional History modules.
a  Select 60 credits from a single History Route A, B, C or D .
b select 30-60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
English modules in stage 2 are divided into three groups:
History Route A
History Route B
History Route C
History Route D
120 credits of optional modules, as approved by the Academic Study Abroad Coordinator.
For your year abroad you will agree a suite of modules in your host institution with the Study Abroad Coordinator.
Details of individual modules that may be taken whilst abroad can be found by accessing the partner institution’s website, navigating to the modules on offer for incoming exchange students.
Stage 3: 30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30-60 credits of English modules).
a select a Dissertation in either English or Creative Writing or History: EAS3003/EAS3122/EAS3510 or HIH3005 or HIH3006 History Research Project Dissertation (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
To select either History Dissertation (HIH3005 or HIH3006), you must have taken HIH2237 Doing History in a Digital Age at stage 2.
Route A or B taken in Stage 2 - Select EAS3003 Dissertation OR EAS3122 Creative Writing Dissertation OR EAS3510 Dissertation by Collaborative Project.
Route C or D taken in Stage 2 – Select either HIH3005 General Third-Year Dissertation OR HIH3006 History Research Project Dissertation.
History Route A or B taken in Stage 2 - Select one 30 Credit English/Creative Writing optional module.
Select a History Special Subject for 60 credits.
History Route C or D taken in stage 2 - You must select 30 credits from History Concepts Modules, or 30 credits of optional modules from outside History via modularity.
Select 60 credits of English/Creative Writing optional modules.
If choosing optional modules outside your named subjects, you must make sure that your total for both History and English is 90 credits each over the second and final year.
BA English and History with Study Abroad
UCAS code: QV02
BA English and History with Employment Experience
UCAS code: QV03
BA English and History with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: QV04
As well as lectures, seminars and tutorials led by internationally respected academics at the forefront of research, you'll engage in group tasks and independent study: reading or viewing module material, writing essays or preparing for seminars and presentations.
We encourage presentation work and written coursework, because it involves you actively in the teaching and learning process and develops important transferable skills such as good verbal and visual communication, as well as effective interaction with other people.
You will also develop a range of professional skills, such as time management and team working, plus valuable critical and analytical skills.
Our history modules encourage you to think about long-term developments and processes of historical change, and to make comparisons between countries and cultures.
We emphasise historical questions that require you to identify patterns across time or between countries, and to isolate common or competing trends, instead of concentrating on short-term or single explanations.
Likewise our English modules enable you to deeply investigate the work of some of the giants of English literature, as well as discovering more unusual works from the past and engaging literary and cultural works from the contemporary moment.
You’ll have on average 1-3 teaching hours per module per week, and will need to allow for up to nine additional hours of private study.
You will have a chance to make your mark on the programmes through regular student evaluations and participation in the Student-Staff Liaison Committees and relevant subject societies on both campuses.
All our degrees have assessments and examinations each year.
Although formal examinations are important tests of skill, up to 50% of your marks will come from other forms of assessment, including coursework essays, projects, dissertations and measures of your skill in presentation and oral work.
For three-year courses, the assessments in the second and third years contribute to your final degree classification.
For four-year courses, the assessments in the second, third and fourth years all contribute to your final degree classification.
A degree in English and History equips you with a range of complementary skills that will put you in a great position to succeed in a range of careers.
Alongside in-depth subject knowledge of both English and History, you will develop highly transferable skills in:
We have a dedicated Careers Service, ensuring you have access to careers advisors, mentors and the tools you need to succeed in finding employment in your chosen field on graduation.
For further information please visit our Careers Service pages .
You will be equipped with skills that are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers, including graduate-level roles in the heritage and arts sectors as well as other fields of work, including education, retail management, recruitment, charities, finance and accounting, and journalism.
View all English courses View all History courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english/english-comms:
BA English and Media & Communications - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABC-ACC IB: 30-28/555-554 BTEC: DDM-DMM
Indeed the range of media we cover on our modules is vast: as well as plays, novels, poetry, and short stories, we engage with film, television, video games, graphic novels and the creative industries.
We will give you the opportunity to experience different ways of learning, with specialist modules that cover everything from the history of communications and professional writing, to language and social interaction and global communications.
30 credits of compulsory English modules, 60 credits of compulsory Media & Communications modules and 30 credits of optional English modules.
a - You must select 30 credits from this list of optional English modules
b - CMM2008 should be taken if you plan on choosing either of the Communications Dissertation modules (CMM3002 or CMM3003) in the final stage.
c - Select 60 credits from this list of optional English modules.
30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30-60 credits of English modules, and 30-60 credits of Media & Communications modules)
BA English and Media & Communications with Study Abroad
UCAS code: Q327
BA English and Media & Communications with Employment Experience
UCAS code: Q328
BA English and Media & Communications with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: Q329
*  Please note that, due to data protection, the job titles and organisations are listed independently and do not necessarily correspond.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english/english-modlang:
BA English and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
A-Level: ABC IB: 30-28/555-554 BTEC: DDM-DMM
BA English and Modern Languages (3 years)
Read more from Callia
Callia
BA English
You may choose one language to study alongside English.
30 credits of compulsory English modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 60 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of English modules, and 30 credits of Modern Languages modules).
a - select EAS1035
b - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
c - select 30 credits credits from this list of optional English modules; EAS1040 is only available in Term 2 to Combined Honours students.
30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 90 credits of optional modules (including 60 credits of English modules, and 30 credits of Modern Languages modules).
You may also select HUM2000 or HUM2001.
g - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
h - You must take one of these modules.
30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 60 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of English modules, and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language).
Subject to choosing 120 credits in the stage overall, you must:
i - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
j - select either EAS3003 or EAS3122 (you can only select one of these modules).
k - select 30 credits from this list of optional English modules.
l - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
You may not, however, select SML3015 or SML3030.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, seminars and small group tutorials, led by internationally respected academics at the forefront of research.
You will be encouraged to take the initiative by organising your own study groups, taking advantage of online and traditional learning resources, and managing your personal workload and time.
Most of your work will be done in group and self-directed study: reading or viewing module material, writing essays or preparing for your seminar presentations.
We encourage you to present your work because it involves you actively in the teaching and learning process.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/english/englishna:
BA English with Study in North America - 2026 entry
A-Level: A*AA IB: 38/766 BTEC: D*DD
A-Level: AAB IB: 34/665 BTEC: DDD
My year studying abroad was one of the best times of my life!
I made lasting friendships during my time in America.
My roommate Katie was a freshman from Louisiana.
We still continue to talk and I will always have that friendship.
She was my rock throughout the entire study abroad.
I will never forget the friendships I made.
I’ve been really lucky with the lecturers I’ve had in Exeter.
My seminar leader in first year pushed me and guided me to learn more and be inquisitive.
He lit a fire underneath me.
During the first term of first year there was a lot of information to understand but my lecturer made it make sense!
BA English with Study in North America
Your year abroad
Your year abroad will take place in Year 2.
Year Abroad in North American Institution - 120 credits of compulsory modules
You will take the number of modules usually required of students in an academic year at the host university.
Two must be in North American literature and/or culture, and at least 75% of your studies must be in English or American literature and culture.
The marks for the year's work will count as 120 credits towards the degree result.
For each of the two semesters spent abroad, the average of the semester's marks will be treated as a single 60-credit module mark.
Subject, to taking 120 credits overall: 60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional English modules.
Of the 60 credits of optional English modules, at least 30 must have substantial North American content.
a - You must select one of the following.
Either EAS3003 Dissertation, or EAS3122 Creative writing Dissertation, or EAS3510 Dissertation by Collaborative Project (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
b - You must select one of the following.
Either EAS3195 Acts of Writing From Decolonisation to Globalisation, or EAS3179 Life and Death in Early Modern Literature, or EAS3234 Citizens of the World
c  - You must select at least one module from this group of modules with substantial North American content.
This is a three year programme and the second year is spent studying with one of our renowned partner universities in the USA or Canada.
In November of their first year, participating students will be invited to attend a series of meetings at which they will meet the International Officer, and also final year students who have just returned from their year abroad.
They will then be asked to give three choices in order of preference and places will be allocated based upon grades, personal statement and references.
Marks obtained at the host university will be converted to Exeter marks.
The conversion criteria will be found on the Year Abroad Intranet.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/envhum/envhum:
BA Environmental Humanities - 2026 entry
A-Level: BBC IB: 30-28 BTEC: DMM
Top 10 in the UK for English and History
Complete University Guide 2026: 7th for English, 9th for History
Top 100 in the world for English and History
QS World University Rankings 2025
Drawing on established interdisciplinary climate research across the University
This programme explores some of the most pressing environmental questions of our time and enables ways in which you can facilitate change.
You can choose from a diverse range of modules taught by world-leading researchers, and build your experience and skills portfolio through work-based projects and internships.
Our course enables you to develop key skills in communication and creative critical thinking that are invaluable to producing more environmentally responsible societies for the future.
Read more from Dr Natalie Pollard
Dr Natalie Pollard
Senior Lecturer
Our BA Environmental Humanities has been designed for those who have a deep interest in the environment but do not wish to pursue a science-based degree.
On this exciting and innovative programme, you will focus on pressing current and global challenges from an arts and humanities perspective.
You will have the opportunity to contribute to new thinking on the future of humanity and the planet in this time of accelerating climate and environmental change.
We will teach you how and in what ways the Humanities brings critical insights to understanding and solving current and global problems of climate and environmental change.
Our BA Environmental Humanities is a creative, flexible, future-facing and innovative Humanities course that allows you to explore climate and environmental change as urgent local, global and planetary challenges.
This course is unique in the following ways:
Stage 3: 30 credits of compulsory Dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules
a Wholly taught online (mixed cohort with Streatham)
BA Environmental Humanities with Study Abroad
UCAS code: QVH3
BA Environmental Humanities with Employment Experience
UCAS code: QVH4
BA Environmental Humanities with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: QVH5
As well as lectures, seminars and tutorials led by internationally respected academics at the forefront of research in this field, you will engage in field-courses, workshops and challenge-focused activities.
You will participate in group tasks, discussion groups and independent study.
You will become active learners using a variety of materials for your modules, including documentary material, film, photography and visual sources, historic documents, journalistic and creative writing and digital sources.
You will grow your skills as writers and communicators in preparation for seminars, presentations, fieldwork and workshops.
You will also develop a range of transferable professional skills, such as time management and team working, plus valuable critical and analytical skills.
You will be introduced to the broad foundations of environmental thought as well as the methods and practices available to environmental humanities students by engaging with climate and environmental challenges that cross traditional disciplinary boundaries.
You will engage with students from across the environmental sciences, geology, geography, archaeology, technology, business studies, politics and International relations.
This is a varied and interdisciplinary programme that allows you to gain a range of highly transferable skills such as project management, strategy, planning and problem solving within the context of both the humanities and environmental themes.
You will be equipped with skills that are attractive to employers across a wide range of careers within the public, private and NGO sectors such as:
You can also pursue further study or research with postgraduate courses.
View all Environmental Humanities courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/film/film:
BA Film & Television Studies - 2026 entry
The University of Exeter was my first choice of university and it was definitely the right choice.
Exeter is a lovely city and you get the campus experience without feeling disconnected from the rest of Exeter.
The university has been really supportive and has provided me with lots of opportunities to develop outside of my degree and prepare me for my future career.
Everyone was very welcoming and there are an enormous amount of societies and student groups to get involved with.
I have loved studying film at Exeter.
The modules cover a great range of cinemas from around the world and throughout the history of film.
Through film, we get to explore so many other areas like history, politics, and philosophy.
My lecturers have all been very supportive both academically and pastorally and their passion for their chosen specialisms is evident in the modules they teach.
The first year of study guides you through the specialised language used in the analysis of film and approaches to studying film as a visual and aural art form.
It familiarises you with the most important movements and moments in cinema history, introduces you to key concepts and theories, and engages with the cross-cultural and transnational exchanges between world cinemas.
In the second year, you will study the history of American cinema and contemporary theories of film philosophy.
In your final year you can pursue your own interests and develop expertise in selected areas.
Choose from a wide array of specialist modules, covering topics ranging from American independent cinema, surrealist cinema, to war and visual media.
You will also either write a dissertation or complete a creative dissertation video essay or short film on a topic of your choice.
a - You must select 90-120 credits from this list of Film & Television Studies modules.
b - You may select 0-30 credits from this list of English, Modern Languages, and Humanities modules, or from outside of the programme subject to selecting 120 credits in total.
You may only select one of the two modules HUM2000 or HUM2001.
c - You must choose either EAF3514 Film Studies Dissertation or EAF3516 Creative Film Dissertation  (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
d - You must select 90 credits from this list of Film & Television Studies modules.
BA Film & Television Studies with Study Abroad
UCAS code: W601
BA Film & Television Studies with Employment Experience
UCAS code: W602
BA Film & Television Studies with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: W603
We use a variety of learning and teaching methods including lectures, seminars, screenings, student study groups, web and IT resources.
Students often prepare for seminars by getting involved with student study groups, which encourage collaboration and team working.
You can also attend our ‘Creative Dialogues’ lecture series, which hosts internationally acclaimed actors, directors and film critics.
Exeter has unique resources which make it ideally positioned to support the study of film.
The Bill Douglas Cinema Museum holds a wide-ranging collection of more than 70,000 film related artefacts and is the largest research archive in any British University.
The collection is available for all students to use as a research and study resource.
Many of our film modules exploit these resources, giving students a highly distinctive and valuable experience of studying and researching film using primary materials, documents and artefacts.
State of the art equipment in our Digital Humanities Lab enables the examination and analysis of these literary and visual materials.
Teaching that is inspired by research ensures lectures are up-to-date and relevant.
All staff teach second- and third-year options that are linked to their own interests which include areas such as: film history; adaptation; gender studies; issues of identity; European, Asian and American cinema and urban space in the cinema.
Staff are also members of the Centre for Interdisciplinary Film Research (CIFR) which host talks with visiting speakers and our own staff about various research projects, to which all are welcome.
From the beginning of your degree you will benefit from a focus on your personal and professional development alongside your academic performance.
You will be supported by a personal tutor throughout your degree, be taught a range of study skills and receive employability training.
You will also learn to work flexibly and creatively with others and engage in debate, as well as exercising independent thought to become an effective independent learner.
In addition, there are several services on campus where you can get advice and information, including the Students’ Guild Advice Unit.
You will be assessed by a combination of exams, essays, presentations and sequence analyses (the detailed analysis of film clips).
In order to be eligible for ‘with Study Abroad’ programmes you will need to attain an average of 60% or more in your first year.
Film graduates from the University of Exeter have an excellent reputation with graduate recruiters and compete very successfully in the employment market.
A degree in Film Studies from the University of Exeter will enable you to acquire  skills  which are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers.
You will develop an informed, critical and creative approach.
Alongside strong oral and written communication skills, you will be able to manage your time and workload effectively, work well as part of a team or independently, be flexible when faced with new situations and have strong analytical skills.
You will be equipped with skills that are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers, including graduate-level roles in Events Management, TV production, the film industry, publishing, education, sales, communications and marketing.
View all Film Studies courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/film/film-comms:
BA Film & Television Studies and Media & Communications - 2026 entry
60 credits of compulsory Film & Television Studies modules, 60 credits of compulsory Media & Communications  modules.
Stage 2: 60 credits of optional Film & Television modules and 60 credits of Media & Communications modules.
Subject to choosing 120 credits for the stage overall, you must take 30cr of compulsory and 30cr of optional Media and Communications modules and credits of optional Film & Television Studies modules from this list.
c - Choose 60 credits of Film and Television Studies optional modules
30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 90 credits of optional modules (including 30-60 credits of Film and Television Studies modules, and 30-60 credits of Communications modules)
d - Select a Dissertation in either Communications or Film and Television Studies: CMM3002 or CMM3003 or EAF3514 or EAF3516 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
If you select CMM3002 or CMM3003 you must select a further 30 optional credits from Communications modules and 60 credits from the optional Film & Television modules.
If you select EAF3514 or EAF3516 you must select a further 60 optional credits from Communications modules and 30 credits from the optional Film & Television modules.
BA Film & Television Studies and Media & Communications with Study Abroad
UCAS code: W609
BA Film & Television Studies and Media & Communications with Employment Experience
UCAS code: W610
BA Film & Television Studies and Media & Communications with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: W611
Film graduates from the University of Exeter have an excellent reputation with graduate recruiters and compete very successfully in the employment market.
A degree in Film Studies from the University of Exeter will enable you to acquire skills which are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers.
* This information has been taken from the Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) Surveys 14/15, 15/16, and 16/17.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/film/film-modlang:
BA Film & Television Studies and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA Film & Television Studies and Modern Languages (3 years)
You may choose one language to study alongside Film and Television Studies.
60 credits of compulsory Film Studies modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
b - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 60 credits of optional modules in Film Studies and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
Subject to selecting 120 credits in the stage overall, you must:
c - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
d - select 60 credits from this list of optional Film Studies modules.
f - You must take one of these modules.
60 credits of optional Film Studies modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
g - select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
h - select 60 credits from this list of optional Film Studies modules.
i - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; you may select a maximum of 15 credits of the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year, these are additional to SML3015.
All of our modules centre the learning experience on seminars, involving groups of between 10 and 20 students, typically running for two hours.
All staff teach second and third year options that are linked to their own interests which include areas such as: film history; adaptation; gender studies; issues of identity; European, Asian and American cinema and urban space in the cinema.
In addition there are a number of services on campus where you can get advice and information, including the Students’ Guild Advice Unit.
A degree in Film Studies from the University of Exeter will enable you to  acquire  skills  which are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/flexible/exeter:
BA/BSc Flexible Combined Honours - 2026 entry
with UK Work Experience
with Work Abroad
Open Days and visiting us
Tailor your degree to suit your interests and career aspirations
Opportunities for study abroad and/or work abroad or UK work experience
46 subjects and pathways available to choose from at our Streatham and St Luke’s campuses
1st in the Russell Group for student satisfaction in three out of seven themes
National Student Survey 2024: Flexible Combined Honours
As I was looking at universities I came across the term Flexible Combined Honours degree and was looking for a course where I could study Management and Art History at the same time.
A chance for me to be passionate about more than one subject without limitations.
I immediately knew that this is the right fit for me, so I started researching universities which offer this opportunity and found out that Exeter has an outstanding FCH department and I decided to visit the university.
My modules in Art History have equipped me with an extensive understanding of the power and responsibility of varying art forms throughout history in shaping the minds of individuals.
I studied concepts such as colonialism, iconography, urbanism and applied this knowledge to visual analysis and research projects.
In the business school, I learned about effective marketing and the fundamentals of establishing a successful business, where my knowledge was deepened by creating reports and presentations.
Now, at my final year I can say that studying both subjects was the best decision I ever made.
I could experience the best of both worlds.
I am hoping to secure a job in an auction house, where understanding the financial market is just as important as having a deep knowledge of art.
Read more from Dorina, of Hungary
Dorina, of Hungary
Studying Management and Art History
View subject-specific entry requirements
When completing your UCAS form please use the Flexible Combined Honours UCAS code :
Y004 BA/BSc Flexible Combined Honours (3 years) Y006 BA/BSc Flexible Combined Honours with Study Abroad (4 years) Y007 BA/BSc Flexible Combined Honours with UK Work Experience (4 years) Y008 BA/BSc Flexible Combined Honours with Work Abroad (4 years)
You do not need to enter a UCAS code for each chosen subject.
Instead, please ensure you indicate your proposed subjects under ‘Further details’ in the ‘choices’ section of the application using the abbreviations given in the table below.
If you wish to study more than two subjects, please contact us before completing your application form.
Academic experts in each subject have curated the core (compulsory) modules that FCH students must take to ensure that the content studied builds a firm knowledge base for a combined honours pathway.
Optional modules within subjects or related to your subjects of study, can then be chosen to create a bespoke programme.
Combination of one or more core (compulsory) modules and optional modules which you choose from those available in that year.
​Please see the FCH module pages for more details on compulsory modules for each subject.
Continue studying your subjects, building a bespoke title.
There will usually be more choice of modules allowing you to structure your degree more flexibly within your subjects.​ Please see the FCH module pages for more details on compulsory modules for each subject
Placement (if taken)
Typically any placement year will take place in year 3.
During your final year you can choose to include an Independent Study (dissertation) module involving research.
​ Please see the FCH module pages for more details on compulsory modules for each subject.
Our Flexible Combined Honours programme offers a wide range of subjects that you can combine to suit your interests.
FCH students can combine any two subjects unless stated or the combination exists as an ‘established’ Combined Honours degree .
Where an established Combined Honours degree exists at either campus the combination will not be available under FCH.
If you are interested in combining three subjects, please contact us before applying.
Below, you'll find an overview of the available subjects and the combinations you can choose from:
Accounting
Accounting can be studied with any other subject within FCH (excluding Economics and Management), where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Accounting Combined Honours courses with Business and Finance are available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the Accounting subject page .
Ancient History
Ancient History can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
A Combined Honours course with Archaeology is already available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the BA Ancient History and Archaeology course page .
Anthropology
Anthropology can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Anthropology Combined Honours courses with Archaeology and Sociology are already available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the Anthropology subject page.
Archaeology
Archaeology can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Archaeology Combined Honours courses with Ancient History and History are already available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the Archaeology subject page .
Art History and Visual Culture
Art History and Visual Culture can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Art History & Visual Culture Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are already available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details on these Combined Honours courses can be found on the Art History and Visual Culture subject page .
Biochemistry
Biochemistry can be studied with any other subject within FCH excluding:
Biochemistry FCH module s
Biological Sciences: Animal Biology and Ecology
Biological Sciences: Animal Biology and Ecology can be studied with any other subject within FCH excluding:
Biological Sciences: Animal Biology and Ecology FCH modules
Biological Sciences: Molecular and Cellular Biology
Biological Sciences: Molecular and Cellular Biology can be studied with any other subject within FCH excluding:
Biological Sciences: Molecular and Cellular Biology FCH modules
Biomedical Sciences
Biomedical Sciences can be studied with any other subject within FCH excluding:
Biomedical Sciences FCH modules
British Sign Language (minor)
British Sign Language can be studied with any other subject within FCH.
Please note that it is only available as a minor .
Classical Studies and Classics
Classical Studies and Classics can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Classical Studies Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are already available for direct application:
Further details on these Combined Honours courses can be found on the Classics and Ancient History course page .
Computer Science
Computer Science can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Computer Science Combined Honours courses with Mathematics are already available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the Computer Science subject page .
Criminology
Criminology can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
A Combined Honours course with Sociology is already available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the BA Sociology and Criminology course page .
Drama
Drama can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Drama Combined Honours course with the following subjects are already available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details on these Combined Honours courses can be found on the Drama subject page .
Economics
Economics can be studied with any other subject within FCH (excluding Accounting and Management), where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Economics Combined Honours courses with Business, Finance and Politics are available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the Economics subject page .
English
English can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
English Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are already available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details on these Combined Honours courses can be found on the English subject page .
Exercise and Sport Science
Exercise and Sport Science can be studied with any other subject within FCH excluding:
Film & Television Studies
Film & Television Studies can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Film & Television Studies Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are already available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details on these Combined Honours courses can be found on the Film & Television Studies subject page .
Geography
Geography can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
A Combined Honours course with Politics is already available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the BA Politics and Geography (Cornwall) course page.
History
History can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
History Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are already available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details on these Combined Honours courses can be found on the History subject page .
International Relations
International Relations can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
International Relations Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are already available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details on these Combined Honours courses can be found on the International Relations subject page .
Languages (Ancient)
Ancient Greek and Latin can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
A Combined Honours course with Latin and Modern Languages is already available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the BA Modern Languages and Latin course page .
Languages (Modern)
Modern Languages can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Please note that Japanese and Korean are only available as minor subjects.
Students wishing to combine more than one language will need to apply to our BA Modern Languages course .
Arab and Islamic Studies Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are already available:
Modern Languages Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are already available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details on these Combined Honours courses can be found on our subject pages:
Management
Management can be studied with any other subject within FCH (excluding Accounting and Economics), where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Management Combined Honours courses with Business, Finance and Marketing are available for direct application via UCAS.
Further details can be found on the Management subject page .
Mathematics
Mathematics can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist, excluding the subjects listed below:
Mathematics Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details can be found on the Mathematics subject page .
Media and Communications
Media and Communications can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Media and Communications Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details can be found on the Media and Communications subject page .
Medical Humanities
Medical Humanities is a standalone pathway, so cannot be combined with any other subject or pathway.
Mediterranean Studies
Mediterranean Studies can be studied with any other subject within FCH.
Middle Eastern Studies
Middle Eastern Studies can be studied with any other subject within FCH.
Philosophy
Philosophy can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Philosophy Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details can be found on the Philosophy subject page .
Politics
Politics can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Politics Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details can be found on the Politics subject page .
Sociology
Sociology can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Sociology Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details can be found on the Sociology subject page .
Sustainability
Sustainability can be studied with any other subject within FCH.
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) (Minor)
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages can be studied with any other subject within FCH.
Theology and Religion
Theology and Religion can be studied with any other subject within FCH, where a Combined Honours degree doesn't already exist.
Theology and Religion Combined Honours courses with the following subjects are already available for direct application via UCAS:
Further details on these Combined Honours courses can be found on the Theology and Religion subject page .
BA/BSc Flexible Combined Honours with Study Abroad
UCAS code: Y006
BA/BSc Flexible Combined Honours with UK Work Experience
UCAS code: Y007
Our four-year ‘with UK Work Experience’ degree, offers you the possibility of spending your third year carrying out a graduate-level work placement or placements within the UK as part of your degree.
There are no limits on the number of placements available and you can swap onto this option after you start your course.
The sector (and country) you choose to work within is very much your choice as you will be responsible for finding and organising your placement.
BA/BSc Flexible Combined Honours with Work Abroad
UCAS code: Y008
UK students: £9,535 per year International students: £25,500 per year
You’ll learn through lectures, tutorials and seminars, with a growing emphasis at each successive level on student-led learning.
Science-based subjects will also include laboratory work and experiments.
Our teaching emphasises the need to analyse, discuss and deploy ideas in a variety of settings and not simply on the ability to memorise.
Modules are also designed to encourage you to think and write analytically about broad subjects.
You’re encouraged to discuss aspects of the subject with the lecturer either individually or in groups, promoting the development of informal tutorials with the agenda set by students.
You’ll be assessed by a variety of methods: some modules are assessed on the basis of exams only, some modules require assessed coursework that can take the form of essays and projects or presentations, while practical modules tend to be assessed by the preparation of written reports, portfolios of work, practical assignments, fieldwork notebooks and takeaway papers to allow time for research.
If you study a three-year programme, assessments in the final two years count towards your classification, and for a four-year programme the final three years.
We’re actively engaged in introducing new methods of learning and teaching, including increasing use of interactive computer-based approaches to learning, such as our virtual learning environment.
Students can access detailed information about modules and learning outcomes and take part in discussion forums.
Most subjects available through FCH are based at the Streatham Campus, including business subjects such as Management and Economics, humanities and social sciences subjects such as Politics and Modern Languages, and sciences such as Mathematics and Biological Sciences.
St Luke’s Campus is home to Medical Sciences and Sport and Health Sciences.
We’re committed to enhancing and developing your key personal and transferable skills.
You’ll develop a range of professional skills, for example, time management and team working.
You’ll gain valuable critical, analytical and communication skills, as well as subject-specific skills.
FCH graduates are highly regarded ​by employers as:
We have a dedicated, award-winning Careers Service , with offices at our Exeter and Penryn campuses, ensuring you have access to careers advisors, mentors and the tools you need to succeed in finding employment in your chosen field on graduation.
Our graduates compete very successfully in the employment market, many employers target the University when recruiting new graduates.
* Please note that, due to data protection, the job titles and organisations are listed independently and do not necessarily correspond.
View all Flexible Combined Honours courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/geography:
BA Politics and Geography (Cornwall) - 2026 entry
Top 15 in the UK for Politics
14th in The Complete University Guide 2026; 15th in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
We are Top 10 in the UK for our world-leading Politics and International Studies research
The BA Politics and Geography degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
You will take half your credits in Politics and the remaining credits in Geography.
60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules (of which 15 credits must be selected from stage 1 Politics optional modules and 15 credits from stage 1 Geography optional modules).
For a full list of Politics and Geography modules on Penryn Campus Penryn Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=hass-cornwall
90 credits of optional modules of which at least 30 credits must be selected from stage 2 Politics optional modules and 30 credits from stage 2 Geography optional modules
Study Abroad year if taken
Students spend this stage in a partner University on an Erasmus/Socrates exchange or other approved programme of study.
Assessment is normally based on the credits gained at the partner institution abroad.
90 credits of optional modules of which at least 30 credits must be selected from final stage Politics optional modules and 30 credits from final stage Geography optional modules.
All Combined Honours students register for HAP3000 but will be supervised by staff in Politics or Geography depending on their research interests.
BA Politics and Geography with Study Abroad
UCAS code: LL29
BA Politics and Geography with Employment Experience
UCAS code: L256
We use a wide range of teaching methods as well as encouraging independent study with an increasing emphasis on seminar discussion and project work in your second and third years:
Depending on the modules you choose this may include:
As a Politics and Geography graduate you will not only have an understanding of complex political and cultural issues, often in continually changing environments, but also an appreciation for how geography impacts on policy in areas such as sustainability, settlement and space and governance.
Throughout your studies you will also develop a range of professional, academic and personal skills including:
This programme will be particularly beneficial to students with an interest in pursuing careers or postgraduate training in areas such as:
A range of employability sessions are put on for the students which include: career talks with visiting alumni and employers from a range of backgrounds, career conversations and employability seminar series events with employers, a Careers in Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection Careers and Networking event and visits to the Met Office and UKHO.
The scheme recruits, trains and supports geographers currently at university and graduate geographers from the work place to act as ambassadors for geography in the classroom.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history/historyexe:
BA History - 2026 entry
Top 10 in UK subject rankings for History
9th in the Complete University Guide 2026
90% of graduates in or due to start employment or further study fifteen months after graduation
Based on full-time, first degree, UK domiciled graduates, HESA Graduate Outcomes survey 2019/20
You can customise the course to suit your needs, by selecting optional modules that you’re passionate about.
In the first year, choose from modules such as Murder in Early Modern England or Gender and Sexuality in the Middle Ages.
The History degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
Single Honours students must take at least 15 credits (and up to a maximum of 30 credits) of Sources and Skills modules at Stage 1.
‘Sources and skills’ modules change yearly, depending on staff availability and other factors.
You are strongly encouraged to take at least 15 credits (and up to a maximum of 30 credits) of modules outside History in Stage 1 via modularity.
Single honours students may take as one of their options HIH1139 Becoming a Historian (Extension)
You must select 30 credits of Stage 2 Option Modules from term 1, and 30 credits from term 2.
As part of your options, you are strongly encouraged to take 30 credits outside History via modularity.
30 credits of compulsory Dissertation, 60 credits Special Subject, 30 credits of Option modules.
a - You must select HIH3005 Dissertation OR HIH3006 Research Project Dissertation
You must select a Special Subject for 60 credits.
You must select 30 credits of Option Modules from either Concepts or modules from outside of History via modularity.
BA History with Study Abroad
UCAS code: V103
BA History with Employment Experience
UCAS code: V105
BA History with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: V106
As well as lectures, seminars and tutorials led by internationally respected academics at the forefront of research, you engage in group tasks and independent study: reading or viewing module material, writing essays or preparing for seminars and presentations.
Modules encourage you to think about long-term developments and processes of historical change, and to make comparisons between countries and cultures.
All the degrees in the Department of History have assessments and examinations each year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history/bahistory:
I was offered a place at Penryn Campus through Clearing.
I’d never been to Cornwall before and after the brilliant open day I decided to confirm my choice.
The beautiful location and the way the university treated me and my family, combined with the opportunity to meet one of my history lecturers prior to study was outstanding.
My course has been excellent so far.
It is totally different than I expected, for example I never thought I would enjoy looking at the theories and concepts behind History, yet I loved the way it taught me to question and see things in a different light.
The same with Global History, originally, I couldn’t see myself studying it but when I came to it, it was really refreshing and rewarding.
Read more from Anya
In the first year, you will cover modules such as The Craft of Writing, Introduction to Human Sciences and World History.
In year two, expose the complex history of slavery, organised crime and inter-imperial rivalry in the Middle East.
120 credit compulsory placement year module.
UCAS code: V104
UCAS code: V107
UCAS code: V108
We encourage presentation work and coursework.
This involves you actively in the teaching and learning process and develops important transferable skills, such as good verbal and visual communication, as well as effective interaction with other people.
We encourage your presentation work, because it involves you actively in the teaching and learning process and develops important life skills such as good verbal and visual communication and effective interaction with other people.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history/history-ancient:
BA History and Ancient History - 2026 entry
I decided to apply to Exeter as it offered a unique course combination that I couldn’t find at many other universities.
I did Latin at GCSE and was torn between studying History and Ancient History so the option to study both was perfect for me!
I visited both the open day and offer holders’ day and really loved the green campus and felt welcomed by the friendly atmosphere.
I would definitely recommend studying at Exeter; my course is so interesting and I especially like the wide range of module options I can choose from, I also take a French language module alongside my degree.
All the lecturers in my department are lovely and have a great relationship with the students.
Read more from Grace
Grace
BA History and Ancient History
The History and Ancient History degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
45 credits of compulsory History modules, 30 credits of compulsory Ancient History modules, 15 credits of optional History modules and 30 credits of optional Ancient History modules
a select either HIH1410 or HIH1420
b select either CLA1001 or CLA1002; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
c select 15 credits of History modules from this list
d select 30 credits of Ancient History modules from this list
30 credits of compulsory Ancient History modules, 30 credits of optional Ancient History modules, 60 credits of optional History modules
e select either CLA2001 or CLA2002; the modules run in alternate years so you must select the one which is running in this academic year.
f select 30 credits from this list of Ancient History modules
g select 60 credits from the lists of optional History modules in Pathway A, B, C or D (including HUM2000 and HUM2001 Humanities in the Workplace; you must take HIH2001 Doing History: Perspectives on Sources if you intend to select HIH3005 History Dissertation in the final stage).
Please note, modules CLA2001 and CLA2002 run in alternate years.
Students will take whichever module is running.
0-30 credits of compulsory Ancient History modules, 0-30 credits of compulsory History modules, 30-60 credits of optional Ancient History modules, and 30-60 credits of optional History modules.
h select a Dissertation in either Ancient History or History: CLA3009 or HIH3005 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
i if selecting HIH3005, select 60 credits from this list of optional Ancient History modules.
j if selecting CLA3009, select a 60 credit History Special Subject in Pathway A.
k if selecting HIH3005, select 30 credits from this list of optional Comparative Histories modules in Pathway B.
BA History and Ancient History with Study Abroad
UCAS code: V190
BA History and Ancient History with Employment Experience
UCAS code: V191
BA History and Ancient History with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: V192

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history/history-business-corn:
BA History and Business - 2026 entry
Top 10 for Business, Management and Marketing
9th in The Times and the Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Study abroad at one of our partner universities in Europe, USA, Canada, South America, Asia, Australia or New Zealand
Studying history and business gives you a unique opportunity to understand and assess the factors that shape our world – including in relation to globalisation and sustainability.
You will gain vital knowledge into the ways in which businesses have emerged and succeeded or failed and how to practically apply this knowledge to drive success in the future.
In your first year you will look at new approaches to history, develop your research and communication skills in an academic environment, and explore how traditional marketing theory is applied in modern digital contexts - examining communication methods, customer relationship management, and the strategic use of tools such as social media, digital advertising, and analytics.
Your second and final years build on these skills with opportunities for independent study projects where you can develop your research skills and an array of optional modules which allow you to tailor your degree according to your interests.
90 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits from Business and 30 credits from History.
Students must pick the 30 remaining credits from History option modules.
Students must pick 60 credits of optional modules from Business and 30 credits of optional modules from History
Details of individual modules that may be taken whilst abroad can be found by accessing the partner institution’s factfile at and navigating to the “Course Requirements” section of that factfile where a link to the modules on offer in the partner institution is displayed.
Stage 3: 30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional modules - a minimum of 30 credits in each subject, and a maximum of 60 in either.
BA History and Business with Study Abroad
UCAS code: V121
BA History and Business with Employment Experience
UCAS code: V122
BA History and Business with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: V123
Exeter has an excellent reputation with graduate recruiters and our students and graduates compete very successfully in the employment market.
Alongside in-depth subject knowledge, you’ll develop a range of highly transferable skills such as:
We have a dedicated Careers Service, with offices at our Exeter and Penryn campuses, ensuring you have access to careers advisors, mentors and the tools you need to succeed in finding employment in your chosen field on graduation.
You will be equipped with skills that are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers across the public, private and NGO sectors including graduate-level roles in the heritage and arts sectors as well as other fields of work, including education, retail management, recruitment, charities, finance and accounting, and journalism.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history/history-geography-corn:
BA History and Geography - 2026 entry
Your first-year core modules introduce you to broader themes such as new approaches to history, the crafts of research and writing and the geography of Cornwall.
You can also choose from a range of optional modules enabling to start shaping your degree to your interests from year 1.
Your second and final years build on these skills with opportunities for independent study projects and your dissertation where you can develop your research skills in an area of personal interest.
Alongside this you will continue to develop your theoretical and practical knowledge in areas such as the politics of climate change, early modern history, the public history project, Humanities in the workplace and many more.
BA History and Geography with Study Abroad
UCAS code: V125
BA History and Geography with Employment Experience
UCAS code: V126
BA History and Geography with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: V127
At the Penryn Campus in Cornwall, you will be welcomed into an intimate and supportive learning environment that encourages enthusiasm and passion for both History and Geography.
Alongside traditional exams for some modules you may also complete creative analytical projects and campaign strategy documents providing you with a portfolio of practical and creative work to showcase your skills to prospective employers.
You will be equipped with skills that are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers across the public, private and NGO sectors.
This programme is excellent preparation for careers in town and council government, local/regional/urban planning, sustainability, international aid/development, climate transitions, and heritage studies.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history/intrel-corn:
BA History and International Relations - 2026 entry
The History and International Relations degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
75 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of History optional modules and 15 credits of Politics and International Relations optional modules)
You will select either Pathway A or B.
a - Under Pathway A, you will take the 30-credit compulsory module HIC2039 The Practice of History
b - Under Pathway B, you will take the 15-credit compulsory modules POC2124 Political Analysis and POC2087 Security Studies.
120 credit compulsory placement module For your year abroad you will agree a suite of modules with the Faculty Study Abroad Coordinator.
Details of individual modules that may be taken whilst abroad can be found by accessing the partner institution’s factfile at http://www.exeter.ac.uk/international/abroad/exchange/where and navigating to the “Course Requirements” section of that factfile where a link to the modules on offer in the partner institution is displayed.
You can weight your modules primarily in one discipline at stage 2 but if you choose to do more History than International Relations at stage 2 you must do the reverse in the final stage (and vice versa) so that across your degree you will have an equal number of credits from History and International Relations.
BA History and International Relations with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VLF3
BA History and International Relations with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VLF4
BA History and International Relations with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VLF5
Throughout the History programmes stress is laid on the need to analyse, discuss and deploy historical evidence in a variety of settings and not simply on the ability to memorise.
We use a wide range of teaching methods as well as encouraging independent study with an increasing emphasis on seminar discussion and project work in your second and third years
Modules are taught through a combination of lectures, seminars and/or tutorials.
Our teaching methods are chosen to encourage you to become an increasingly independent learner as you progress through the years.
You must pass your first-year modules in order to proceed but your performance at this level does not count towards your final degree classification.
Combining International Relations with History will not only develop your understanding of complex political and cultural issues, but you will also graduate with language skills that are particularly valued in a wide range of employers within finance, law, the media as well as the business and public sectors.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history/history-politics-corn:
BA History and Politics - 2026 entry
Living and working in Cornwall has been amazing, and an opportunity I would’ve most likely never had, had it not been for Exeter’s campus in Penryn.
I also loved the prospect of being on a shared campus because of the vibrant community of students it would create.
When I was initially doing my UCAS form I changed the course I wanted to apply to multiple times.
I am extremely glad, however, that I settled on History and Politics because I have enjoyed every module I have studied.
I love the content and the lectures and believe my course – along with help from the career zone – is helping my future career path.
BA History and Politics
The History and Politics degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
a - Under Pathway A, you will take the 30-credit compulsory module HIC2039 The Practice of History.
b - Under Pathway B, you will take the 15-credit compulsory module POC2124 Political Analysis and POC2103 Introduction to Postcolonialism
BA History and Politics with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VLD2
BA History and Politics with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VLC3
BA History and Politics with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VLC4
You'll have a personal tutor, as well as tutors in individual subjects and they will work with you to monitor your progress, as well as offering pastoral support and other help.
For four-year programmes, the assessments in the second, third and fourth years all contribute to your final degree classification.
Combining Politics with History will not only develop your understanding of complex political and cultural issues, but you will also graduate with language skills that are particularly valued in a wide range of employers within finance, law, the media as well as the business and public sectors.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/history/history-modlang:
BA History and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA History and Modern Languages (3 years)
You may choose one language to study alongside History.
The History and Modern Languages degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
45 credits of compulsory History modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 15 credits of optional History modules, and 30 credits of Modern Languages modules.
b - select HIH1421 Understanding Medieval and Early Modern History OR HIH1422 Understanding Modern History.
c - select 15 credits of Sources and Skills History modules.
d - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits with the prefix SML.
30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 60 credits of History option modules, and 30 credits of Modern Languages option modules.
Select 60 credits from a single History Route A, B, C or D .
You must take HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age if you intend to select HIH3005 History Dissertation or HIH3006 Research Dissertation in the final stage).
History Route A 2 History option modules.
Final year will be option modules including possibility of Modern Languages Dissertation History Route B HIH2002 Uses of the Past + 1 other History option.
Final year will be option modules including possibility of Modern Languages Dissertation History Route C HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age + 1 other History option.
History Route D HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age + HIH2002 Uses of the Past.
f - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of SML-coded modules.
120 credit compulsory module
30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 90 credits of optional modules (including 60 credits of History modules, and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language).
Route A or B taken in Stage 2 - Select 30 Credits of Modern Languages Options.
Select a Special Subject (non-condonable)  for 60 credits.
Route C or D taken in stage 2 - You are encouraged to select Dissertation module HIH3005 or HIH3006.
Select 30 credits from the Concepts modules, or 30 credits outside of History.
Select 60 credits of Modern Languages Options options.
If choosing option modules outside of your named subjects, you must make sure that your total for both History and Modern Lanuages is 90 credits each over the second and final year.
Our teaching within languages aims not just to improve your production and comprehension of the language but also to help you develop your language-learning skills.
These will enable you to take responsibility for your language learning, to continue learning the language(s) after graduation and to pick up new languages in the future.
Written language is taught through weekly classes of about 18 students with teams of tutors who contribute to a programme aimed at grammar improvement and the development of advanced writing skills.
You’ll also have weekly oral practice in classes of about eight with native speakers of the language(s) that you are studying.
You’ll be expected to prepare written work or presentations for seminars, in which you’ll have the opportunity to express your own point of view and to discuss other people’s ideas.
Non-language modules are taught through a combination of lectures, seminars and/or tutorials.
Modules are assessed by a combination of exams and coursework (essays, projects and other written and oral tasks).
You will have to pass assessments in your first year to proceed to the second year, but they do not count towards your final degree classification.
The assessments in the second year, year abroad and final year contribute to your final degree award.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy/history:
BA Philosophy and History - 2026 entry
86% of graduates in or due to start employment or further study fifteen months after graduation
Sociology, Philosophy and Anthropology graduates: based on full-time, first degree, UK domiciled graduates, HESA Graduate Outcomes survey 2021/22
The Philosophy and History degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
45 credits of compulsory History modules, 45 credits of compulsory Philosophy modules, 15 credits of optional History modules, and 15 credits of optional Philosophy modules.
a - You must take at least 3 out of the 5 core Philosophy modules b - You must select HIH1421 Understanding Medieval and Early Modern History OR HIH1422 Understanding Modern History.
Select 15 credits of either further core Philosophy modules , or one of the Stage 1 Option Philosophy modules
45 credits of compulsory Philosophy modules, 15 credits of optional Philosophy modules, 60 credits of optional History modules
d - You must take at least 3 out of the 6 core Philosophy modules
Select 15 credits from Stage 2 Philosophy Option Modules or a further core module from above.
Ancient History Dissertation in final stage History Route B HIH2002 Uses of the Past + 1 other History option.
Ancient History Dissertation in final stage History Route C HIH2237 Doing History in the Digital Age + 1 other History option.
0-30 credits of compulsory Philosophy modules, 0-30 credits of compulsory History modules, 30-60 credits of optional Philosophy modules, and 30-60 credits of optional History modules.
Route A or B taken in Stage 2 - Select PHL3040 Philosophy Dissertation
Route A or B taken in Stage 2 - Select 30 Credits of Philosophy Options.
Route C or D taken in stage 2 - Select 30 credits from Concepts Modules, or 30 credits of option modules from outside of History via modularity.
Select 60 credits of Philosophy options.
If choosing option modules outside of your named subjects, you must make sure that your total for both History and Philosophy is 90 credits each over the second and final year.
BA Philosophy and History with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VV5C
BA Philosophy and History with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VV52
BA Philosophy and History with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VV53
As a Philosophy graduate you will be well prepared for a number of careers including teaching, the media, business, social research, work in the public and charity sectors, and the legal profession.
The broad range of transferable skills gained on a Philosophy and History degree enable graduates to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:
View all Philosophy courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law/law:
LLB Law - 2026 entry
A-Levels: AAA IB: 36/666 BTEC: DDD
* Canadian students who take an LLB programme at the University of Exeter can return to practice in Canada by applying for admission to a law society in a Canadian jurisdiction through taking exams through the National Committee for Accreditation (NCA)
Excellent national and international reputation for mooting
I decided to study at the University of Exeter because it has a strong reputation for law and the course allowed me to study abroad for a year.
The lecturers in the law faculty are very supportive, they dedicate a lot of time and energy to give feedback and advice to students.
Alex
LLB Law with European Study
In your third year, you may also choose to take 30 credits in a subject outside law, subject to prior approval.
For full module descriptions please visit the Law website .
Please note programme curriculum currently under review.
In addition to the compulsory modules listed above, you will study an optional 15-credit module selected from the list of optional modules offered in the Law School at Level 5 (XXX2xxx).
See https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=law for optional Law School modules.
If you are accepted onto one of the course variants on offer then you will spend your third year on a work placement.
You will study 120 credits of optional modules at Level 6 (XXX3xxx) and/or Level 5 (XXX2xxx), with a maximum of 30 credits at Level 5.
Over the duration of your programme, you must take a minimum of 90 credits at Level 6.
Please note that you are not permitted to select Level 4 (XXX1xxx) modules at this Stage.
At Stage 3, you may choose to take up to 30 credits of module(s) outside the Law School, subject to availability and approval.
I chose Exeter as it had a strong reputation and consistently high university league rankings for my course.
I knew some people who’d studied at Exeter already, and they always told me positive things about the University.
What stood out to me the most was hearing about how supportive the staff were towards the students, which I valued a lot.
In my course, I have enjoyed not only being taught the academic side of law but also learning and developing our practical skills.
On one of my chosen modules I had the opportunity to work at Exeter’s Community Law Clinic to provide free legal advice to members of the public that needed assistance on various legal matters.
This provided hands-on experience, allowing us to enhance our skills for a future career in law.
I thoroughly enjoyed this opportunity and believe it will be really valuable for my career success.
Read more from Erica
We believe that you shouldn’t just learn the law, you also need the skills to put it into practice once you graduate.
We place considerable emphasis on the development of lawyering skills using a range of methods:
You will learn through a variety of teaching and learning opportunities including interactive seminars, workshops and lectures, and independent and guided study.
In the first year most assessments will be exam based.
Exams are not simply tests of memory: they are designed to test your ability to argue persuasively and to apply the law correctly.
Therefore, in some modules you may be permitted to bring unannotated statute books into the exam while in others, your full notes are permitted.
Other methods of assessment include:
Your first year will not count towards your final degree classification, but you do have to pass it in order to progress to the second year.
The Lasok Law Library, located in the Fourm holds in excess of 40,000 volumes and is open 24 hours a day.
You can choose from diverse study spaces to suit your specific learning needs, whether dedicated quiet study, group work, or social learning over a coffee.
Our custom-built Moot Court offers students invaluable opportunities to take part in mooting activities and is equipped with the latest technology, including high-spec video conferencing.
Our Legal Assistance Programme offers a range of pro bono opportunities to provide valuable career experience.
These include the Community Law Clinic, where you can help members of the public gain legal advice and information; the Stop Abuse for Everyone charity, providing support and mediation for victims of abuse; the Student Appeals Project which investigates cases subject to appeal; and the Judicial Shadowing Programme, where you can ‘play judge.’
Exeter enjoys an international reputation for mooting and our students have been successful in competitions all over the world.
Mooting provides you with the opportunity to practise your advocacy skills in a simulated court environment.
You’ll receive coaching from staff and present your arguments before volunteer judges in a purpose-built moot court.
Our Student Negotiation Society also sends teams to the National Negotiation Competition.
We have an excellent relationship with members of the legal profession who are in regular contact with students  through activities such as workshops, skills sessions, mooting, networking, internships, shadowing and mentoring.
Students also benefit from our strong links with alumni all over the world.
Many of our alumni are in senior positions and include:
Many graduates go on to further study in the law and then enter a training contract with a firm of solicitors or a pupillage in a barrister’s chambers.
A law degree also provides a range of skills which are sought by other sectors such as business, finance and administration.
Example destinations* of some of our recent graduates:
Trainee Solicitor
Paralegal
Legal Team Trainee
Juriste (lawyer)
Management Consultant
Investment Consultant
Business Start-up Coordinator
Compliance Analyst
Probation Officer
Trainee Accountant
HR Assistant
Marketing Assistant
Global Compliance Business
Management Assistant
Allen & Overy
Freshfields  Bruckhaus Derringer
Michelmores
Thomas Eggar LLP
Macfarlanes
Peer and Co
Bond Pearce
Collection Attorneys Europe
Maurant Ozannes
Nabarro
Dundas and Wilson
Reynolds Porter
Chamberlain
Michael Page International
British Red Cross
Axiom Legal
Microsoft
Babcock International Group
Barclays Bank PLC
Alliance Insurance PLC
Royal Bank of Canada
German Banking Federation
EDF Energy
UNICEF
Our Legal Assistance Programme offers a range of pro bono opportunities to provide valuable career experience.
These include the Community Law Clinic, the Stop Abuse for Everyone charity, the Student Appeals Project and Judicial Shadowing.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law/law_placement:
LLB Law with Professional Placement - 2026 entry
During my placement with EDF NNB Legal, I thoroughly enjoyed the opportunity to gain first-hand experience alongside not only world-class legal professionals but commercial and technical professionals too… To be even a small part of this enormous project is fantastic, and will set you apart from other candidates when applying for vacation schemes and training contracts.
Tom
LLB with Professional Legal Placement (2020).
Placement: EDF NNB Legal.
We have a lot of interactive lessons like seminars and workshops instead of just lectures every day.
This makes the learning process more engaging and helps us understand the material better.
Our professors try to make seminars as interesting as possible.
Before coming to university, I was worried about funding since I wasn’t sure what options would be available to me as a non-British citizen.
Thankfully, my school helped me apply for student finance, which I didn’t even realise I was eligible for.
I was also nominated by my school for a grant for students from disadvantaged backgrounds, which was a huge help.
On top of that, the University of Exeter provides additional support, like bursaries for students with low socio-economic backgrounds.
This financial support has made a significant difference and eased a lot of my initial concerns.
Read more from Albina
Albina
LLB Law with Professional Placement
In your final year, you may also choose to take 30 credits in a subject outside law, subject to prior approval.
In addition to the compulsory modules listed below, you will study an optional 15-credit module selected from the list of optional modules offered in the Law School at Level 5 (XXX2xxx).
Placement year
Stage 3 will be spent on placement.
Your workplace contract will be organised directly with your employer.
During your placement, you will take a compulsory module of 120 credits.
You will be required to show appropriate evidence of satisfactory attendance and performance during your placement.
This may include a 30-credit dissertation module.
Over the duration of your programme, you must take a minimum of 90 credits at Level 6 (in addition to LAW3701).
At Stage 4, you may choose to take up to 30 credits of module(s) outside the Law School, subject to availability and approval.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law/laweurostudy:
LLB Law with European Study - 2026 entry
Programme curriculum currently under review.
In addition to LAW1004, LAW1035 and LAW1036, choose 30 credits of compulsory non-condonable modules (see Stage 1 note below):
XXXXXXX Modern language module (30 credits) LAW1003 Criminal Law (30 credits)
Stage 1 note: If you are taking your third year (Stage 3) overseas at a university that delivers your modules in a language other than English, you will normally take a 30-credit module in that language in your first year.
If you are exempted from the language requirement or if you are taking your third year (Stage 3) overseas at a university that delivers your modules in English, you will take LAW1003 Criminal Law in your first year.
Stage 2: 105 credits of compulsory modules, 15 credits of optional modules
In addition to LAW2015, LAW2017 and LAW2103, choose 30 credits of compulsory non-condonable modules (see Stage 2 note below):
XXXXXXX Modern language module (30 credits) LAW2041 Equity & Trusts (30 credits)
Stage 2 note: If you are taking your third year (Stage 3) overseas at a university that delivers your modules in a language other than English, you will normally take a 30-credit module in that language in your second year.
If you are exempted from the language requirement or if you are taking your third year (Stage 3) overseas at a university that delivers your modules in English, you will take LAW2041 Equity and Trusts in your second year.
Stage 3 will be spent at your host university.
Your study hours will be set by the host institution, with you taking modules equivalent to 120 credits.
The modules you take will depend on the modules offered or required by the host university.
You will be required to show appropriate evidence of satisfactory attendance and performance during your year abroad.
At Stage 3, you will be registered at the University of Exeter on the compulsory module, LAW3000 Year Abroad.
0–60 credits of compulsory modules, 60–120 credits of optional modules
If you took language modules at Stages 1 and 2, you must take the compulsory modules of LAW3003 Criminal Law and LAW3041D Trusts, together with 60 credits of optional modules at Level 6 (XXX3xxx) and/or Level 5 (XXX2xxx), with a maximum of 30 credits at Level 5.
Take 60 credits of compulsory modules LAW3003 and LAW3041D if you have not already taken LAW1003 and LAW2041.
If you took LAW1003 Criminal Law at Stage 1 and LAW2041 Equity and Trusts at Stage 2, you will take 120 credits of optional modules at Level 6 (XXX3xxx) and/or Level 5 (XXX2xxx), with a maximum of 30 credits at Level 5.
Neither LAW3003 Criminal Law nor LAW3041D Trusts can be selected as optional modules.
Over the duration of your programme, you must take a minimum of 90 credits at Level 6 (in addition to LAW3000).
The Lasok Law Library, located in the Forum holds in excess of 40,000 volumes and is open 24 hours a day.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law/master1:
LLB English Law and French Law/Master 1 (Maîtrise en Droit) - 2026 entry
A levels: AAA IB: 36/666 BTEC: DDD
Winner of Franco-British Lawyers Society award
Although challenging in the sense that I am not a native French speaker, the course has been able to accommodate both native speakers and those who have learned the language throughout secondary school, much like myself.
My experience on the course is an extremely positive one, as having the opportunity to obtain an English law degree as well as the French law Master 1 within such a compressed time is an amazing opportunity.
Additionally, immersing myself in French culture and being among native speakers throughout my fourth year of study promises to be an excellent experience.
Read more from Sammy
Sammy
LLB English Law and French Law/Master 1
You will combine modules on English law with modules in French law.
For full module descriptions please visit the Law School modules website .
In addition to the compulsory modules listed above, you will study an optional 15-credit module selected from the list of optional modules offered in the Law School at Level 5 (LAW2xxx).
In addition to the compulsory modules listed above, you will study 30 credits of optional module(s) at Level 6 (LAW3xxx) and/or Level 5 (LAW2xxx), with a maximum of 30 credits at Level 5.
Please note that you are not permitted to select Level 4 (LAW1xxx) modules at this Stage.
Stage 4 is spent at the Law Faculty of the University of Rennes 1, where you will follow one of the Master 1 (Maîtrise en Droit) (Master 1) programmes.
At Stage 4, you will be registered at the University of Exeter on the compulsory module, LAW4000 Year Abroad: Maitrise.
In your final year, which you spend studying abroad at the University of Rennes 1, you will pay a significantly reduced tuition fee (equal to 15% of the total fee for that academic year) to the University of Exeter, but no fees to the University of Rennes 1.
We place an emphasis on the development of legal skills and elements of legal research, problem analysis, teamwork, legal writing and reasoning.
You will usually have between 12-16 hours of lectures, workshops or seminars each week and be expected to spend around 30 hours in private study.
You’ll also be encouraged to discuss aspects of modules with lecturers during fixed consultation times.
You will be assessed in a variety of ways, for example:
Assessment methods will vary by module.
All students receive written feedback on their coursework assignments and tutors are available to discuss additional feedback on assignments and exams with students as requested.
I am planning to work in institutional relations and regulatory affairs for companies acting in space.
This summer, I was selected for a two-month internship at SES, a satellite company.
My background in European law and my English and French legal expertise are particularly valuable and helpful in completing this internship.
I was also selected for a summer course organised by the European Centre for Space Law taking place in September and I will also be attending a 3-day conference in Istanbul organized by the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs.
Overall, I feel that this double degree gave me the opportunity to find and pursue my career goal and allowed me to strive for excellence.
Read more from Lucie, graduated in July 2019
Lucie, graduated in July 2019
LLB in English Law and French Law/Master 1 (Maîtrise en Droit)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/law/graduatellb:
LLB Graduate Law
2.1 Honours degree
Wide range of opportunities for extra-curricular pro-bono activities
One of the many great aspects of the Exeter Law School is the amount of support that is available to students.
Faculty members are all extremely friendly and are always happy to help students with any questions.
As well, students receive a lot of support from each other when they work together in groups and collaborate their ideas during seminars.
Qimat
Graduate LLB
We will consider applicants with a 2:1 Honours degree or above.
Check equivalent qualifications for your country or region here .
This course is an accelerated law degree for students who have a first degree in another discipline and want to pursue a career in law.
In your second year you may take up to 45 credits in another discipline if you wish, subject to prior approval.
In addition to the compulsory modules listed above, you will study 45 credits of optional modules selected from the list of optional modules offered in the Law School at Level 6 (XXX3xxx).
Please note that you are not permitted to select Level 4 (XXX1xxx) or Level 5 (XXX2xxx) modules at this Stage.
The Graduate LLB scholarship (Canada ) consists of a fee reduction of £2500 in the first year of the programme and, as long as a 2:1 average is achieved in Year 1, £2500 in the second year.
We place emphasis on the development of legal skills and elements of legal research, problem analysis, teamwork, legal writing and reasoning.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law/law_llb_jd:
Dual LLB / Juris Doctor (JD) with the Chinese University of Hong Kong - 2026 entry
A levels: A*AA IB: 38/766 BTEC: n/a
We do not make contextual offers for this programme, and all applicants will be required to meet the standard entry requirements.
Please be aware we do not accept resit students for entry onto this programme.
We require all relevant qualifications to be successfully completed in the first sitting.
E.g.
completing three A-Levels within two years.
The Dual LLB‐JD Degree Programme lasts for four years.
In the first and second years, you will study at Exeter to complete 240 credits of Exeter law modules.
In the third and fourth years, you will study at CUHK to complete 57 units of CUHK JD courses.
Upon successful completion of the four‐year study, Exeter will accept up to 120 credits (30 units) to be transferred from CUHK to the Exeter LLB Programme using a translation of marks scheme and CUHK will accept up to 15 units to be transferred from Exeter to the CUHK JD Programme.
Year 1 is spent at Exeter enrolled on LLB modules.
Year 2 is spent at Exeter enrolled on LLB modules.
Year 3 is spent at CUHK enrolled on the Juris Doctor.
CUHK propose the following for Stages 3:
CUHK, Year 3 Term One
LAWS6001 Legal System*
LAWS6004 Legal Research, Analysis and Writing*
LAWS6015 Principles of Constitutional Law#
Law Elective 1
Term Two
LAWS6020 Principles of Administrative Law#
Law Elective 2
Law Elective 3
Law Elective 4
Law Elective 5
Summer Term
LAWS6005 Comparative Legal Studies* OR LAWS6089 Legal Technologies
Year 4 is spent at CUHK enrolled on the Juris Doctor.
CUHK propose the following for Stages 4:
CUHK, Year 4 Term One
LAWS6012 Principles of Civil Procedure OR Law Elective - 6
LAWS6014 Principles of Criminal Procedure OR Law Elective - 7
LAWS6019 Principles of Land Law#
Law Elective 8
LAWS6007 Ethics and Jurisprudence*
LAWS6013 Principles of Evidence#
LAWS6017 Principles of Commercial Law#
LAWS6901 Independent Research*^
LAWS6042 Principles of Property Law
*JD required courses; #PCLL Pre-requisite courses
^Students can also take LAWS6902 Independent Research Dissertation (6 units) and the extra 3 units will be counted towards the elective unit requirement.
Years 1 and 2 of the programme are spent at Exeter, and the fees for these years are listed above.
Please note: In years 3 and 4 of the programme, students will pay the tuition fees directly to the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Students will not be eligible for a tuition fee loan from the Student Loan Company for years 3 and 4 of the programme but remain eligible to apply for a maintenance loan for the period of time that they are studying on this programme in Hong Kong.
Fees for 2025 entry are as follows:
HK$206,400* for Year 3 CUHK JD Programme (based on expected course load of 30 units)
HK$185,760* for Year 4 CUHK JD Programme (based on expected course load of 27 units)
*Subject to annual review.
Please visit the CUHK LAW website for the latest tuition fee information.
There are no additional fees associated with the study of this course.
However, successful applicants would need to consider the costs of relocating to Hong Kong after the end of their 2nd year at Exeter.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/law/brickfields:
LLB Law (for Brickfields Asia College only) - 2026 entry
Pass all subjects with an average of 50% in year 1 at BAC.
Brickfields 2+1: Third year entry
Pass all subjects with an average of 50% in year 1 at BAC, and a minimum of 60% in year 2.
Arrange a visit
Hear from Malaysian students
Contact our local Malaysian-based representative:
Mr Cal Choong Mobile/WhatsApp : +60127332845 Line : CalChoong
Email: c.v.choong@exeter.ac.uk
Phone: +60127332845
Vishnu from Malaysia on why he chose to study Law at Exeter
Brickfields 1+2: Second Year Entry
Pass all subjects with an average of 50% in Y1 at BAC.
IELTS: at least 6.5 and no less than 6.0 in any other section.
SPM English 1119 exam can be accepted in lieu of IELTS (but must have been completed no more than seven years prior to enrolment).
TOEFL PBT: at least 570 and an Essay Rating of at least 4.0.
TOEFL IBT: at least 100 with minimum scores of 21 for writing, 21 for listening, 22 for reading and 23 for speaking.
MALAYSIAN CAMBRIDGE ENGLISH SYLLABUS CIE 1119 (before 2021): At least English 1119 C.
MALAYSIAN SPM (CEFR-aligned English language exam – after 2021): B2 overall with B2 in all components.
Pearson Test of English (Academic) PTE and Pearson Test of English (Academic) PTE online: 67 with no less than 64 in all communicative skills.
Brickfields 2+1: Third Year Entry
Pass all subjects with an average of 50% in Y1, and a minimum of 60% in year 2.
In Exeter you will take modules adding up to 120 credits each year.
For full module descriptions please visit the current list of Law School modules .
Modules - Brickfields 1+2: Second year entry
In your first year at Exeter, you'll study 105 credits of compulsory modules and 15 credits of optional modules
In addition to the compulsory modules listed below, you will study an optional 15-credit module selected from the list of optional modules offered in the Law School at Level 5 (LAW2xxx).
See https://law.exeter.ac.uk/currentstudents/undergraduatemodules/ for optional Law School modules.
In your second year at Exeter, you will study 120 credits of optional modules selected from the list of optional modules offered in the Law School at Level 3.
See current list of optional Law School modules .
Stage 3: 120 credits of optional Law modules
You will study 120 credits of optional modules at Level 6 (LAW3xxx).
Modules - Brickfields 2+1: Third year entry
In your year at Exeter, you'll take 45 credits of compulsory modules, and 75 credits of optional modules.
You may choose to take up to 30 credits of module(s) outside the Law School, subject to availability and approval.
In addition to the compulsory modules, you will study 75 credits of optional modules at Level 6 (LAW3xxx).
You must not take any optional modules that have content equivalent to modules already studied at Brickfields.
If there is any doubt as to whether a module has equivalent content, this will be determined by the Exeter Programme Lead.
See https://law.exeter.ac.uk/currentstudents/undergraduatemodules/ for optional Law School modules
If you plan to qualify as a solicitor or barrister, after you graduate you will need to comply with the further training and other requirements of the Solicitors Regulation Authority or the Bar Standards Board , or the relevant regulatory body in the country in which you intend to practice.
Our Brickfields-Exeter Scholarship will be deducted from eligible students' tuition fees in each year of study at the University of Exeter (up to a maximum of 2 years).
All Brickfields students who apply to our 1+2 or 2+1 courses and meet our entry requirements will receive this scholarship.
1+2 Brickfields students are also eligible for our £3,500 Malaysian Undergraduate Scholarship .
This scholarship is awarded as a reduction in the tuition fees for one year of study.
It is not recurrent for subsequent years of study.
This scholarship will be allocated automatically to eligible applicants for entry in the 2025/6 academic year.
A separate application is not required.
1+2 students will receive both the Brickfields-Exeter Scholarship and the Malaysian Undergraduate Scholarship in their first year of study with us at the University of Exeter.
The total award you will receive in your first year at Exeter is £7,500.
You will receive the second payment of £4,000 for the Brickfields-Exeter Scholarship in your final year with us.
Many graduates from our Law courses go on to further study in the law and then enter a training contract with a firm of solicitors or a pupillage in a barrister’s chambers.
Example destinations* of some of our recent Law graduates:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/libarts/liberal:
BA Liberal Arts - 2026 entry
Choose from a wide range of subjects across the university to major in
Top 10 in the UK for Liberal Arts
Global model, developing skills valued by international employers
Work with external organisations to tackle a real-world issue through the core Think Tank module
Students selecting the following subjects as their Major need to meet specific entry requirements:
When completing your UCAS form you must indicate your proposed Major subject under ‘further details’ in the ‘choices’ section of the application.
This helps us allocate space on your chosen subject.
The Liberal Arts degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
Core modules in Year 1 and 2 provide a strong foundation to equip you with a range of keys intellectual tools you can use throughout your degree and your future career.
They create a backbone to your studies and are designed to instil a holistic approach to learning.
Your second year of study will enable you to consolidate your liberal arts foundations by furthering your critical tools and developing your intellectual abilities.
Your final year enables you to focus on your chosen Major and develop your academic specialism.
Stage 1 – 120 credits: 30 credits of compulsory Liberal Arts, 15 credits of compulsory modern or ancient language modules, a minimum of 30 compulsory credits in your prospective major, and up to 45 credits of optional modules
Your first year is designed to give you a strong foundation in the liberal arts by equipping you with a range of key intellectual tools that you can use throughout the rest of your degree and your working life after university.
You will receive this foundation through the core 30 credit module: 'Liberal Arts: Being Human in the Modern World' which will give you a solid grounding in the skills, methods and principles of liberal learning.
Alongside this module, you will also take at least 15 credits in an ancient or modern language.
Students will take one 30 credit core module 'Liberal Arts: Being Human in the Modern World', alongside at least 15 credits in either an ancient or modern language
At least 30 of your remaining credits will be studied in your prospective Major.
You will still have the opportunity to explore your options and interests through studying optional modules from a broad range of subjects.
Please note that to pursue some Majors you will be required to study core modules in the relevant discipline.
Please see the Liberal Arts module pages for more details on compulsory and optional modules for each subject.
Stage 2 – 120 credits: 15 credits of compulsory Liberal Arts, 60 compulsory credits in your prospective major, and 45 credits of optional modules.
You will take the 15 credit Think Tank module, which is practice-based and will build directly on the previous year’s work, developing your research, teamwork and problem-solving skills.
You will take at least 60 credits in your chosen Major but will also have the opportunity to continue with your languages acquisition (if you choose to) and to take optional modules from a broad range of subjects.
At least 60 of your remaining credits will be studied in your Major specialism.
You will still have the opportunity to explore your options and interests through studying optional modules in a broad range of subjects.
Students will spend the third year of their studies in a partner university on an Erasmus/Socrates exchange or other approved programme of study.
The year abroad comprises 120 credits and assessment is based on the credits gained at the partner institution.
a You must choose only one module from this group : either HUM3999 or SSI3999
Students will spend the third year of their studies gaining relevant employment experience abroad.
Stage 3 – 120 credits: 30 credits of a compulsory dissertation (in your major subject) 60 credits of modules in your chosen major, and 30 credits of optional modules.
You will study a 30 credit dissertation in your chosen Major, alongside at least 60 credits worth of modules from your Major.
This will still enable you to extend your skills and capabilities via studying optional modules in a broad range of subjects; this includes the opportunity to continue with your language acquisition (if you choose to).
Please see the Liberal Arts module pages for more details on compulsory modules for each subject.
You will still have the opportunity to explore your options and interests through studying optional modules in non Majors.
Please note that to pursue some Majors you will be required to study some of their own core modules.
There are a broad scope of subjects that are considered to fall within the Liberal Arts, but these are generally recognised to be topics within the humanities, as well as social sciences.
BA Liberal Arts with Study Abroad
UCAS code: LA97
BA Liberal Arts with Employment Experience
UCAS code: LA94
BA Liberal Arts with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: LA95
The nature of learning at university, especially in the Humanities and Social Sciences, involves a lot of self-directed study and research.
As well as lectures, seminars and tutorials, led by internationally respected academics at the forefront of research, you will be encouraged to take the initiative by organising study groups, taking advantage of online and traditional learning resources, and managing your own time and workload.
In core modules you will learn through analysis, questioning, discussion and debate, practical work, problem-solving, research projects and teamwork.
Given the diverse and interdisciplinary nature of the Liberal Arts programme, and to ensure you benefit from the exciting breadth and depth of expertise across the institution, we will also use team-teaching so that you can get the most out of Exeter’s collective expertise.
This means that while modules will be convened and led by specialist academics, experts in other disciplines will deliver many lectures, seminars and workshops.
We are actively engaged in introducing new methods of learning and teaching, including the increasing use of interactive computer-based approaches to learning through our virtual learning environment, where you can access detailed information about the programme, the modules and interact with your peers and lecturers through activities such as discussion forums.
You will be assessed through a variety of methods, which will vary greatly depending on your academic choices.
These could include coursework, exams, written reports or seminar presentations.
The assessments in the second year, year abroad or year of employment experience (if applicable) and final year will contribute to your final degree classification.
All students will be able to use our Foreign Language Centre facilities and our Digital Humanities Lab .
The £1.2 million Digital Humanities Lab allows you to use cutting edge equipment to find out more about our cultural heritage and creative past and share your discoveries with your peers.
In the space, you will have the opportunity to curate digital exhibitions, carry out 2D and 3D digitisation, create professional quality video/audio recordings, and participate in exciting research projects that utilise data in innovative new ways.
View our Liberal Arts FAQs to learn more about studying Liberal Arts at Exeter.
Develop critical skills, experience, innovative attitudes and cultural intelligence valued by global employers.
The Think-Tank module, taken in your second year, gives you direct experience working with employers and external organisations, researching real-life problems.
Working in small groups or ‘think tanks’ you will explore a specific social, political or economic issue in the contemporary world.
Enhance your analytical abilities by scrutinising academic research and your problem-solving skills by using this knowledge to help solve the challenge.
Working alongside your contemporaries you’ll need to utilise good communication and will deploy oratory skills in the culminating presentation.
Example careers:
View all Liberal Arts courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsbsc:
BSc Mathematics - 2026 entry
With a Year in Industry
Discover Mathematics at the University of Exeter.
Top 25 in the UK for Mathematics
22nd in the Complete University Guide 2026
84% of graduates in or due to start employment or further study fifteen months after graduation
Spend a year in industry as part of your degree
These courses will meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation, awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA) , when they are followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for taught masters degrees.
The first year modules introduce you to the main areas of university-level Mathematics, with topics covered including Formal Mathematics and Proof, Analysis, Algebra, Calculus, Modelling, Probability and Statistics.
Our Foundations of Mathematics module helps support background knowledge from A level, especially if you did not take Further Mathematics, and several modules help develop computer skills.
In your second year you can choose from a number of streams that develop your understanding of Real and Complex Analysis, Abstract and Linear Algebra, Applied Mathematical Modelling and Statistics.
Optional modules give you the opportunity to learn about more specialised topics.
Up to 30 credits of elective (free choice) modules can be taken from any discipline in the University subject to approval, pre-requisites, timetabling and availability.
If you choose the ‘with Year in Industry’ variant of this degree, your placement will take place in your third year.
In the final year, a wide range of modules is available representing Exeter’s specialisms and research strengths in areas such as Cryptography, Fluid Dynamics and Mathematical Biology and Ecology.
These, together with electives available in previous years, give you the opportunity to specialise in one area of mathematics, or to continue with a broad-based course.
It was a genuine pleasure to study at the University of Exeter.
The support from lecturers, was definitely my favourite thing about the course – it was brilliant.
There weren’t just specific times when lecturers would be available, they were always willing to make even more time for you, so you were able to get in to extra detail with your work.
Read more from Anthony
Anthony
Studied BSc Mathematics at the University of Exeter
BSc Mathematics with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: G110
The BSc Mathematics with a Year in Industry programme includes an industrial placement which takes place in the third year of this four-year degree.
Your placement will be spent working in an appropriate business or industry related to mathematics, and you will benefit from our established connections with local, national and multinational organisations.
As well as increasing your first-hand knowledge and improving many personal and transferable skills, making new contacts and enhancing your employability.
You can apply for this programme through UCAS using the unique UCAS code.
You can also transfer to the ‘with a Year in Industry’ programme during the first year of BSc Mathematics.
A special module 'Employability and Placement Preparation’ takes place at the start of your first year.
You will also be invited to attend workshops offering guidance and support such as ‘Making the most of your placement’ and ‘How to use your placement as an individual project’.
All our degrees involve a combination of teaching methods, including lectures, seminars, examples classes, workshops and tutorials.
Most modules in mathematics involve three one-hour lectures per week, so you typically have 12 lectures per week.
In the first year there are tutorial classes for each module every fortnight, except for modules involving computing or project work.
In the first term, the ‘Foundations’ module helps you with the transition from A level to university mathematics.
In addition to lectures and seminars, you should spend about 20 hours per week in private study.
Working through examples and solving problems is a vital part of learning mathematics, and we advise you attempt all coursework problems, whether formally assessed or not.
You will be allocated a personal tutor who will be happy to advise or put you in touch with support services and you are encouraged to discuss mathematical problems or questions with tutors and lecturers who advertise regular office hours.
Extra support is available, for example through lunchtime mathematics surgeries or our peer mentor scheme, and we have an active student-staff liaison committee.
There are modules at all levels that involve project work and report writing, and the final year project is a major piece of research and writing that allows you to go into depth for a specific area under the guidance of a member of academic staff.
You can choose from wide range of possible project topics each year, or negotiate a topic/title with a member of academic staff.
Several of the modules develop skills to use a range of modern computer tools for working with data, programming or symbolic algebra as well as typesetting and presentation.
Once you have mastered the foundations, our mathematics programmes offer in later years a wide range of options within the programme.
In addition to the named degrees with study abroad, professional experience and year in industry, you can take optional (called elective) modules from all over the university in later years.
These options are subject to your availability, having the appropriate background (pre-requisites) and certain programme constraints.
You will benefit from teaching by academic staff comprising internationally-recognised mathematicians, scientists and practitioners active across a wide range of topics in pure and applied mathematics, statistics and applications.
As you progress through your degree, you will hear about the latest mathematical research and have opportunities (for example, the independent research project) to become actively involved in a research project yourself.
Examinations are the more important part of the process, but the coursework helps you to work steadily throughout your degree.
This is particularly important in Mathematics where the subject matter develops logically as the degree progresses.
Some modules have tests, essays, presentations and/or project reports that contribute to the assessment.
Our graduates go on to excel in many specialist mathematical fields and across a broad range of other sectors.
We offer a very wide range of opportunities for you to develop the deep and adaptable skills that employers are looking for.
You’ll be able to meet with local and national employers who regularly visit the university to engage with students, hosting mock interviews, CV workshops, drop-ins and lectures.
This is a great opportunity for you to find out more about the day to day activities of their business and recruitment opportunities.
Our Careers Service also host a wealth of employer activity, such as Careers Fairs, so you’ll never be short of chances to network with potential employers.
You have the choice to take an optional ‘Commercial and Industrial Experience’ module during the vacation before your final year.
This opportunity allows you to gain paid work experience in a commercial setting while earning credits towards the final year of your degree programme.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Mathematics but also in wider fields.
View all Mathematics courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsmm:
MMath Mathematics - 2026 entry
with Professional Experience
with International Study
Study abroad at one of our partner universities in Europe, USA, Canada, Australia and China
My proudest achievement so far is being involved in a piece of published academia literature, I never thought it would be possible to get this experience whilst being an undergrad.
I’ve also had the opportunity to conduct my own piece of near-publishable research which has really helped prepare me for a future in academia.
Read more from Marcus
Marcus
These courses are accredited to meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA) .
If you are studying ‘with a Year in Industry’ you will spend the third year of your five year degree on placement and carry out a 120 credit module.
For further information about our placement years, please see the course variants .
As you move in to the third year you can choose from many advanced topics such as Cryptography, Fluid Dynamics and Mathematical Biology and Ecology.
The compulsory module Research in Mathematical Sciences provides you with an opportunity to look in-depth at current research in a chosen field.
During your final year, in addition to masters-level advanced modules, you will undertake an independent research project supervised by a member of academic staff.
A large range of optional modules is available to choose from, allowing you to tailor your studies to your interests and reflecting the range of research interests of the department from algebra and number theory, through dynamical systems and fluid mechanics, to statistics, climate, biomedical and data science.
MMath Mathematics with Professional Placement
UCAS code - G104
On this programme you will undertake a work placement in the vacation prior to the start of your third year (6 - 10 weeks, subject to suitable arrangements).
This is then followed by an extended individual project during your third year, specifically designed around your placement.
The combined placement and project allows you to undertake paid vacation work while gaining highly relevant career experience.
You will be encouraged to stay in touch with your placement host throughout the completion of your academic project and may continue this relationship into your final year MMath project.
Yes, it’s worth 45 credits.
There are also possibilities to change to this during the first year of the programme.
We have excellent links with employers and will support you to find and prepare for your work placement.
You can also arrange your own placement, as long as it is graduate level work related to the degree programme, and the employer agrees to this.
MMath Mathematics with International Study
UCAS code - G106
This programme allows students to take the ‘Semester of Mathematical Studies Abroad’ module.
This counts for one half of an academic year and can only be taken during the autumn (first) semester of your third year of study.
During this time you study mathematics modules of a similar nature and level to those you would have taken in Exeter.
We strongly encourage our undergraduates to consider a period studying abroad.
There are many benefits to undertaking international study, including having the opportunity to experience a different culture and (depending on host country) practice your foreign language skills.
Destinations may vary and we encourage you to view our study abroad webpages for up to date information.
Yes, it’s worth 60 credits.
You pay fees as normal: the host university waives their fees.
There is a process to match students with partner universities for their semester abroad that takes place during the second year, and a lot of guidance and support before, and during the semester abroad, both from the University and the Department.
Many partner universities can help you find accommodation as well as settling in.
MMath Mathematics with a Year in Industry
UCAS code - G109
The MMath Mathematics with a Year in Industry programme includes an industrial placement which takes place in the third year of this five-year degree.
During this year you will pay a reduced tuition fee, visit the Tuition Fees page for more information.
There are also possibilities to change to the ‘with Year in Industry’ programme during the first year of MMAth Mathematics.
As part of our MMath Mathematics degree and International Study and Year in Industry pathways, you can choose to take an optional ‘Commercial and Industrial Experience’ module during the vacation before your third year.
This opportunity allows you to gain paid work experience in a commercial setting while earning credits towards your degree programme.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/maths-foundation:
BSc Mathematics with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Supportive department prioritising contact time between students and staff
The foundation course covers the core maths skills needed to progress onto our Year 1 of the BSc Mathematics with Foundation Year course.
This course will meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation, awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA) , when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for taught masters degrees.
The way the lecturers teach is great - instead of just covering the basic understanding of a subject, I feel like they really went into depth to show you how to answer each question properly instead of just a generalised idea of the topic.
Zara Simpson
BSc Mathematics with Foundation Year
Visit our course pages for details of the Learning and Teaching methods on the BSc Mathematics or BSc Natural Sciences , BSc Physics , BEng Engineering , BEng Mechanical Engineering , BEng Electrical and Electronic Engineering and BEng Civil Engineering degree programmes for the subsequent years of your chosen degree programme.
You must pass your foundation year and meet the progression criteria to progress to Year 1 of the BSc Mathematics with a foundation year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsmsci-climate:
MSci Mathematics (Climate Science) - 2026 entry
When I visited on open days and offer holder visit days I knew that Exeter was the place for me – all the staff and students that I spoke to were so friendly and made me feel really welcome.
The course content also really appealed to me, especially the focus on Climate Science and the opportunity to really specialise.
Read more from Jess
Jess
Studying MSci Mathematics (Climate Science)
As you move in to the third year you can choose from many advanced topics directly related Climate Science.
You’ll also have the ability to choose from a wide variety of optional modules in advanced mathematics from across the department.
During your final year, in addition to masters-level advanced modules in the area of Fluid Dynamics, you will undertake an independent research project supervised by a member of academic staff.
This course is accredited to meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA) .
In addition to the named degrees with study abroad, professional experience and year in industry, you can take optional (called elective) modules from all over the university in years 2 and 3.
The mathematical modelling skills learnt through this degree underpin many areas of research and can lead to careers in a huge range of research and development roles.
Your specialism will be especially relevant to any company concerned with our climate, from crop production to energy suppliers or environmental consultants.
Our graduates excel in specialist mathematical fields and across a broad range of other sectors.
You have the choice to take an optional ‘Commercial and Industrial Experience’ module during the vacation before your third year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathssci-geophysical:
MSci Mathematics (Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics) - 2026 entry
Up to 30 credits of elective (free choice) modules can be taken, with at most 15 credits outside the disciplines of Engineering, Mathematics and Physics.
As you move in to the third year you can choose from many advanced topics directly related to fluid dynamics.
The MSci Mathematics (Geophysical and Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics) provides advanced mathematical modelling skills, an understanding of the interplay between analytical and numerical methods, and knowledge of the physics of fluid flows, waves and instabilities.
Such applied mathematics expertise is of great importance to commerce and society and this programme is suitable for careers including meteorology atmospheric science and oceanography.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsmsci-biology:
MSci Mathematics (Mathematical Biology) - 2026 entry
In your fourth year you’ll take advanced mathematics modules covering various topics including Mathematical Modelling in Biology and Medicine.
You’ll also undertake your MSci Project, this includes a substantial research element that will give you the chance to apply the mathematical and computational skills you have developed throughout your degree.
There will be a range of potential projects to choose from to suit your interests and optional modules can be chosen to support your project.
Mathematics makes vital contributions to biological research, using sophisticated techniques to extract useful information from genetic data.
With the completion of the Human Genome Programme, there is huge potential for advances in research by exploiting the newly-available data.
As more and more high-tech companies are set up to exploit applications of this bioinformatics revolution, there are likely to be many career opportunities for graduates of this programme in commercial and academic environments.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsdatasciencebsc:
BSc Mathematics and Data Science - 2026 entry
Long established partnership with the Alan Turing Institute and home to Exeter’s Institute of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
First year modules introduce you to the fundamental technical and professional skills needed to understand and engage with machine learning, artificial intelligence and data science.
You will learn core knowledge and practical skills relating to data structures and algorithms that are commonly applied in this topic area.
Second year compulsory modules further develop your knowledge of computational intelligence, data science in society and software development, giving you a broader skill set to continue on to your final year.
If you choose the 'with Year in Industry' variant of this course, your placement will take place in your third year.
Find out more about the industrial placement .
In your final year you’ll choose from advanced modules in a wide range of topics.
Industry-linked projects also take place and work placement opportunities are recommended.
This variety of learning gives you practical experience and the confidence to conduct individual research, applying your expertise to solve real mathematical problems and find computing solutions.
BSc Mathematics and Data Science with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: GG22
The BSc Mathematics and Data Science with a Year in Industry programme includes an industrial placement which takes place in the third year of this four-year degree.
As well as increasing your first-hand knowledge, you’ll also improve many personal and transferable skills, making new contacts and enhancing your employability.
You can apply for this programme through UCAS using the code above.
You can also transfer to the ‘Year in Industry’ programme from BSc Mathematics and Data Science during your first year.
Your curriculum has been developed with partners, including IBM, the Met Office, South West Water, Black Swan and Oxygen House.
Modules will use current industry methods, platforms, software and data, to ensure that they are fully reflective of workplace practice.
We’ve designed our degrees with employability firmly in mind.
As well as hard skills such as programming and data analysis, you’ll develop important work place skills such as communication, presentation and teamwork.
There is an established strong market demand for suitably skilled data scientists and data science skills are increasingly being sought across many sectors, particularly by the finance and accounting industries, supermarkets, online retailers such as Amazon and the NHS.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsdatasciencemsci:
MSci Mathematics and Data Science - 2026 entry
In your final year you’ll complete two major projects, one as a group and one individually, giving you the freedom to investigate a subject of your choosing.
These projects will often be based on real-world applications data.
Your fourth year will also give you access to a number of advanced topics not available on the BSc including modelling of climate systems, chaos and space weather.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsaccounting:
BSc Mathematics with Accounting - 2026 entry
A levels: AAA-AAB IB: 36/666 - 34/665 BTEC: DDD
Taught in partnership with the University’s triple-accredited Business School
In addition to taking core modules in Mathematics, you will acquire a broad understanding of the fundamentals of Accounting.
In your second year you will study three core modules in Accounting as well as picking from several optional modules in Mathematics.
These include areas relevant to Business, such as statistical modelling and inference.
You will gain a thorough grasp of the techniques used in modern management accounting, and will see how mathematical tools such as linear programming are used in commercial decision-making.
If you choose the ‘with a Year in Industry’ variant of this degree, your placement will take place in the third year of this four year degree.
In your final year you’ll study two compulsory modules in Accounting as well as having the freedom to choose modules in Mathematics from across the department.
30 credits may be chosen from outside the areas of mathematics and accounting.
BSc Mathematics with Accounting with a year in industry
UCAS code: G2N5
The BSc Mathematics with Accounting with a Year in Industry programme includes an industrial placement which takes place in the third year of this four-year degree.
You can apply for this programme through UCAS using the code.
You can also transfer to the ‘Year in Industry’ programme from BSc Mathematics with Accounting during your first year.
As part of your degree, you can choose to take an optional ‘Commercial and Industrial Experience’ module during the vacation before your final year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsaccountingmsci:
MSci Mathematics with Accounting - 2026 entry
A-Levels: AAA-AAB IB: 36/666-34/665 BTEC: DDD
If you wish to take the ‘with Year in Industry’ programme, please see the course variants for further information.
These include areas relevant to business, such as statistical modelling and inference.
If you choose the ‘with a Year in Industry’ variant of this degree, your placement will take place in the third year of this five year degree.
Year 3 (Year 4 if taking placement year)
In this year you’ll study two compulsory modules in Accounting as well as having the freedom to choose modules in Mathematics from across the department.
Your final year will involve further advanced modules relevant to mathematics and accounting alongside a substantial research led Masters level project.
Through your project you can explore a topic of your choice.
You’ll be supervised by an academic with expertise in your chosen field and gain experience working as an independent researcher.
MSci Mathematics with Accounting with a year in industry
UCAS code: G2N1
The MSci Mathematics with Accounting with a Year in Industry programme includes an industrial placement which takes place in the third year of this five-year degree.
You can also transfer to the Year in Industry programme from MSci Mathematics with Accounting during your first year.
As part of your degree, you can choose to take an optional ‘Commercial and Industrial Experience’ module during the vacation before your third year (fourth year for ‘with a Year in Industry’ students).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathseconomics:
BSc Mathematics with Economics - 2026 entry
In addition to taking core modules in Mathematics, you will study the basic concepts and principles of micro-economics, and see how it can be applied to a variety of problems.
In your second year you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the tools used in microeconomic analysis.
You’ll also have the opportunity to choose from several optional modules in Mathematics including Vector Calculus and Algebra.
In your final year you’ll learn how mathematical techniques are used in valuing and managing financial instruments, and how statistical techniques are applied to economic data.
You’ll also have the freedom to choose modules in Mathematics from across the department such as Fluid Dynamics and Theory of Weather and Climate.
30 credits may be chosen from outside the areas of mathematics and economics.
BSc Mathematics with Economics with a year in industry
UCAS code: G2N6
The BSc Mathematics with Economics with a Year in Industry programme includes an industrial placement which takes place in the third year of this four-year degree.
You can also transfer to the ‘with a Year in Industry’ programme from BSc Mathematics with Economics during your first year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathseconomicsmsci:
MSci Mathematics with Economics - 2026 entry
In addition to taking core modules in mathematics you will study the basic concepts and principles of micro-economics, and see how it can be applied to a variety of problems.
If you choose the ‘with a Year in Industry’ variant of this degree, your placement will take place in the third year of this five-year degree.
For more information about the ‘with a Year in Industry’ programme, please see the course variants .
In your third year you’ll learn how mathematical techniques are used in valuing and managing financial instruments, and how statistical techniques are applied to economic data.
The focus of your final year will be a research-led project through which you will explore a topic of your choice.
MSci Mathematics with Economics with a year in industry
UCAS code: G2N2
The MSci Mathematics with Economics with a Year in Industry programme includes an industrial placement which takes place in the third year of this five year degree.
You can also transfer to the Year in Industry programme from BSc Mathematics with Economics during your first year.
You have the choice to take an optional ‘Commercial and Industrial Experience’ module during the vacation before your third year (fourth year for ‘with a Year in Industry’ students).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsfinance:
BSc Mathematics with Finance - 2026 entry
In addition to taking core modules in Mathematics, you’ll learn about the operation of financial markets and will gain an understanding of the role of economics in business and in public and private decision making.
In your second year you’ll study two core modules in Finance, gaining a deeper understanding of the tools used in microeconomic analysis.
In your final year you’ll study one compulsory module in Finance, learning about the theory of decision-making, as well as having the freedom to choose modules in Mathematics from across the department.
BSc Mathematics with Finance with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: G2N3
The BSc Mathematics with Finance with a Year in Industry programme includes an industrial placement which takes place in the third year of this four-year degree.
You can also transfer to the Year in Industry programme from BSc Mathematics with Finance during your first year.
Our graduates excel in specialist mathematical fields and across a broad range of other sectors and have found employment with financial institutions such as banks, insurance companies, pension funds, investment and unit trusts, as well as stock-broking and financial advisory work.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsfinancemsci:
MSci Mathematics with Finance - 2026 entry
In this year you’ll study one compulsory module in Finance, learning about the theory of decision-making, as well as having the freedom to choose modules in Mathematics from across the department.
Your final year will involve further advanced modules relevant to mathematics and finance alongside a substantial research led Masters level project.
MSci Mathematics with Finance with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: G2N3
The MSci Mathematics with Finance with a Year in Industry programme includes an industrial placement which takes place in the third year of this five-year degree.
You can also transfer to the Year in Industry programme from MSci Mathematics with Finance during your first year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsmanage:
BSc Mathematics with Management - 2026 entry
A levels: AAA - AAB IB: 36/666 - 34/665 BTEC: DDD
Maths has always been a massive part of my life.
I absolutely love solving problems and studying a subject that is applicable to everything, which is a real bonus when applying for graduate jobs.
I specifically chose Exeter for maths because of some of the unique courses it offers relating maths to climate change.
Climate change is such a pressing issue that needs to be addressed, studying modules relating to the topic really allows me to broaden my knowledge.
Read more from Rebecca
Rebecca
Studying BSc Mathematics with Management
In addition to taking core modules in Mathematics, you’ll learn about the theory underlying different types of management structures, processes and practices.
Through this you’ll consider the relevance of both historical and contemporary approaches to the future of work organisation by practising managers.
In your second year you’ll study core modules in Management, gaining a deeper understanding of operations management, marketing and consumer behaviour.
You’ll also have the opportunity to choose from several optional modules in Mathematics relevant to Business, such as Differential Equations and Statistical Modelling.
In your final year you’ll study a compulsory module in strategic management, gaining an understanding of the 21st century competitive landscape from a strategic management perspective, and developing the ability to analyse strategic issues using a number of approaches.
You’ll also have the freedom to choose modules in Mathematics from across the department such as Topology and Metric Spaces and Theory of Weather and Climate.
30 credits may be chosen from outside the areas of mathematics and management.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mathematics/mathsmanagemsci:
MSci Mathematics with Management - 2026 entry
In your third year you’ll study a compulsory module in strategic management, gaining an understanding of the 21st century competitive landscape from a strategic management perspective, and developing the ability to analyse strategic issues using a number of approaches.
The focus of your final year will be a research-led project, through which you will explore a topic of your choice.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/communications/comms:
BA Media and Communications - 2026 entry
A-Level: BBC IB: 28/554 BTEC: DDM-DMM
Top 10 for Communication and Media Studies
Multi-faceted degree drawing on strengths in Drama, English, Film & Television Studies and Modern Languages and Cultures
*CMM1004 Communications Research Methods is a new module from 25/26 for students at Stage 1 of the programme.
CMM2008 Communications Research Methods is only for students at Stage 2 of the programme in 25/26 and will be removed from the programme, replaced by CMM1004, after 25/26.
60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules for a total of 120 credits
CMM2008 is a pre-requisite for taking either CMM3002 Communications Dissertation or CMM3003 Communications Practical Research Project in final year.
a - You must select either CMM3002 or CMM3003 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
BA Media and Communications with Study Abroad
UCAS code: P305
BA Media and Communications with Employment Experience
UCAS code: P306
BA Media and Communications with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: P307
With practical modules on offer and opportunity to undertake professional placements, a degree in Communications will give you plenty of opportunity to develop your professional portfolio which will give you the skills and experience needed to be successful in your chosen career.
A Communications degree puts you in a great position to succeed in a range of careers.
The programme will include module ‘Communications in the Workplace’, within which students will be encouraged to find work placements with providers in the communications and media sector, or projects which will enable them to carry out communication-related projects.
In this module, students will undertake one or two work placements.
The module will enable students to develop an understanding of how the skills and knowledge acquired as part of the degree apply to the workplace.
Through reflexive practice, they will extend relevant work-based skills and knowledge.
Students will have the opportunity to develop an understanding of a business or work environment through practical work and to gain experience in the use of technologies and applications commonly used in organisations.
Graduates can expect to go on into roles in the following sectors:
View all Media and Communications courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/communications/comms-modlang:
BA Media & Communications and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA Media & Communications and Modern Languages (3 years)
You may choose one language to study alongside Media and Communications.
Stage 1: 60 credits of compulsory Media & Communications modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 30 credits of optional Modern Languages modules
b select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM/HAS-coded modules for the year.
30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of core for Communications.
60 credits of optional modules (30 credits of Communications options, and 30 credits of Modern Languages options).
c Select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
d Select 60 credits of Media & Communications modules.
e Select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language
Stage 3: 30 credits of compulsory dissertation, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 60 credits of optional modules including 30 credits of Media & Communications modules and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
h Select a Dissertation in either Media & Communications or Modern Languages: either CMM3002 or CMM3003 or SML3030 (you cannot choose more than one module from this group).
i Select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
j Select 30 - 60 credits of optional Media & Communications modules
k select 0 – 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
With practical modules on offer and opportunity to undertake professional placements, a degree in Communications and Modern Languages will give you plenty of opportunity to develop your professional portfolio which will give you the skills and experience needed to be successful in your chosen career.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/medical-imaging/imaging:
BSc Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) - 2026 entry
A levels: BBB IB: 30/555 BTEC: DDM
A-Level: BCC IB: 26/544 BTEC: DMM
Top 3 in the UK for Radiography
4-month placement blocks each year -  become part of the team
Option to transfer to an Integrated Masters (MSci) programme at the end of Year 2*
*(depending on academic performance in years 1 and 2)
Top 2 in the Russell Group for student satisfaction in all 7 themes
National Student Survey 2024: Medical Imaging
The BSc (Hons) Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) and MSci (Hons) Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) are approved by the Health & Care Professions Council .
The BSc (Hons) Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) and MSci (Hons) Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) are approved by the College of Radiographers for a period of five years, from 09/2024 to 08/2029 inclusive.
The required test scores for this course fall under Profile F .
We are committed to identifying the best possible applicants, regardless of personal circumstances or background.
Please refer to our Applications policy
Each application cycle starts in September.
Your application should normally reach UCAS between 1 September and the UCAS equal consideration deadline .
While work experience is not a mandatory entry requirement for our programme, you are encouraged to undertake work experience in a Radiography department to gain an insight in to your desired profession.
If successful at the application stage, you will be invited to an interview during January to March, where you’ll undergo a small multiple mini interview (MMI), which consists of a series of short, structured interview stations used to assess your suitability for the programme.
During the interview day, we will be assessing your personal qualities, such as your communication skills, empathy, insight in to your own strengths and weaknesses, motivation to study radiography, etc.
All successful applicants after interview will be required to complete a health questionnaire and those accepting an offer will be screened by our Occupational Health Department.
You may be required to attend a medical examination as part of the admissions process.
You will be required to have up to date vaccination records for relevant innoculations in line with University requirements and those of your placement providers.
We require all radiography students to be immunised against certain infectious diseases to meet health and safety standards required to work with patients.
We will require students to provide evidence of two MMR jabs, and in addition undergo tests to determine their Hepatitis B surface antigen, TB and HIV status.
Enrolled radiography students will be unable to undertake their studies without evidence of completion of the vaccination process.
Please see the Medical Imaging Admissions Policy 2026 for full details on our Medical Imaging admissions selection process.
As you may be working with vulnerable people in a variety of clinical settings throughout the degree programme, all offers are conditional upon a Criminal Conviction Self Declaration and an enhanced disclosure check via the Disclosure & Barring Service (formerly the Criminal Records Bureau).
We will review all significant reports of convictions, cautions and verbal warnings and decide on a candidate’s suitability to enter the programme.
International students should check details of our English language requirements.
If your academic qualifications or English language skills do not meet our entry requirements our INTO University of Exeter centre offers a range of courses to help you reach the required language and academic standards.
Foundation programme for Biomedical, Life and Environmental Sciences.
Please read the important information about our Typical offer .
For full and up-to-date information on applying to Exeter and entry requirements, including requirements for other types of qualification, please see the Applying section .
Our BSc (Hons) in Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) aims to ensure that, on graduation, you have the skills required to successfully embark on a career as a Diagnostic Radiographer and to be eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
This full-time three-year programme includes clinical placements in hospitals across Cornwall, Devon, Dorset and Somerset, which stretch into the summer vacation and, as such, this programme is longer than those in other subjects.
You will have three clinical placements as part of the degree programme, where you will attend a different placement site for four months during each year.
Around fifty percent of your time will be spent in clinical practice.
Each clinical block is about 4 months in length.
You go to a different placement site for each of your years of study.
Our key NHS practice partners across the South West are:
In addition to these three core placements, students who transfer to the MSci will undertake a 7-week specialist placement during year 4.
BSc Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) - Year 1
This year provides a foundation in the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required for radiography.
Academic study provides theoretical knowledge of patient care, anatomy, imaging techniques, professional practice and the science that underpins medical imaging.
This is then complemented with a clinical placement that provides practical experience in the safe and effective practice of general and fluoroscopic radiography.
This academic knowledge is then complemented with a clinical placement that provides practical experience in the safe and effective practice of general and fluoroscopic radiography.
BSc Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) - Year 2
Year two develops further understanding of anatomical and physiological concepts in contemporary clinical imaging practice.
You will develop your knowledge of radiation science and gain an appreciation of safe and optimal use of radiation-based imaging techniques, alongside a clinical placement.
Drawing upon the knowledge and skills learnt in year one, year two develops further understanding of anatomical and physiological concepts in contemporary clinical imaging practice.
You will develop your knowledge of radiation science and gain an appreciation of safe and optimal use of radiation-based and non radiation-based imaging techniques.
The year two clinical placement provides further practical experience of the safe and effective practice of general and fluoroscopic imaging and introduces interventional radiography and other imaging modalities.
BSc Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) - Year 3
In the final year, you will integrate theory with practice by drawing on your prior experience of imaging modalities, and reinterpreting your knowledge of imaging within a scientific framework.
During your final clinical placement you will become an integral member of the multi-professional healthcare team, having responsibility for organising your working day and liaising with staff in other departments, and will gain experience of managing an inter-professional team.
The final year builds upon the knowledge and skills established in the previous two years.
You will integrate theory with practice by drawing on your prior experience of imaging modalities and reinterpreting your knowledge of imaging within a scientific framework.
During the third clinical placement you will become an integral member of the multi-professional healthcare team.
You will have responsibility for organising your working day and liaising with staff in other departments and will gain experience of managing an inter-professional team.
You can potentially transfer to our four-year MSci Medical Imaging course at the end of your second year (subject to performance).
The MSci Masters-level course is designed to offer improved preparation for working in cross-sectional imaging.
It will broaden your understanding of medical imaging technologies, allowing greater specialisation and career advancement in the future.
If you transfer to the MSci, you will study the 3 years of BSc modules, plus an additional fourth year which includes a 10-week specialist placement.
You may take optional modules as long as any necessary prerequisites have been satisfied, where the timetable allows and if you have not already taken the module in question or an equivalent module.
Stage 1: 120 credits of compulsory modules, 0 credits of optional modules
Stage 2: 120 credits of compulsory modules, 0 credits of optional modules
Stage 3: 120 credits of compulsory modules (120 Level 6;), 0 credits of optional modules
Stage 4: 90 credits of compulsory modules (90 Level 7), 30 credits of optional modules (all Level 7)
Through the NHS Learning Support Fund, students starting or continuing study on a range of Nursing and Allied Health degrees at undergraduate or postgraduate level can apply for a Training Grant of £5,000 per academic year.
Potential extra payments worth up to £3,000 per academic year will be available for eligible students.
This includes £1000 for those studying in an area of shortage specialism, including radiography (diagnostic and therapeutic) and mental health nursing.
Find out more and how to apply on the NHS Learning Support Fund website .
Your learning is through lectures, tutorials and seminars with clinical placements in the Radiology Department of one of our placement hospitals across the South West.
We are strongly committed to offering high levels of student support.
You will have a Personal Tutor at the University and during your clinical placements you will be visited fortnightly by a Clinical Tutor who will offer both personal and academic support.
We believe every student benefits from being part of a research-led culture and being taught by experts – you will discuss the very latest ideas in seminars and tutorials and become actively involved in research yourself.
Research plays an important part in developing patient care and radiography as a whole for the future.
You will be taught by staff who are at the cutting edge of their research areas which ensures you receive the most up-to-date knowledge.
During your third year you will undertake a research project in which you will investigate a particular aspect of radiography in detail and may have the opportunity to work alongside research staff on current clinical projects.
You will be assessed by a combination of continuous assessment (both academic and clinical) and exams.
The ratio of continuous assessment to exams is approximately 5:4.
You will have to pass the assessments in your first year to proceed to the second year but they do not count towards your degree classification.
The assessments in the second and third year will each contribute to your final degree classification.
The clinical placements are within Radiology Departments in one of our 8 placement hospitals: Barnstaple, Plymouth, Dorchester, Exeter, Taunton, Torbay, Truro and Yeovil.
You will spend time at a different placement site each year in order to ensure you get a wide range of clinical experience whilst exploring all that the South West has to offer; be prepared that at least once in the three years it is likely that you will be allocated to a placement site which will require you to move to onsite accommodation.
The cost of this accommodation can be reimbursed, dependent on your personal circumstances.
In addition this process can take a few weeks, so will need to be considered when budgeting for this course.
During your first placement, you will be working for four and a half days a week, between the hours of 9am and 5pm.
In the second and third years you will undertake some weekend and out-of-hours duties.
You will always be supervised by a qualified member of staff.
The placements last for four months each and the first year placement will end in mid-August, so the holiday times for this degree do not fall in line with other university courses.
These placement sites will be allocated at least a term in advance of the placement occurring, with the majority of students being given one of their top three preferred choices.
Please note you will not be able to return to a placement site that you have previously been to.
.
I love that our placements are formed of one large block per year as it really gives you the chance to settle into your placement hospital, allowing you to gain confidence in your own abilities and to push yourself out of your comfort zone with people you have built trust with over the four month period.
BSc Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography)
A Medical Imaging degree is a passport to an interesting job and a fulfilling career.
There is a grading structure that sees an individual’s salary increase as they move up the profession.
There are also management opportunities and consultant radiography posts are planned.
Radiographers trained in the UK are recognised as being among the best in the world and the health providers of many countries recruit in the UK.
On graduation you will be eligible to apply for registration as a diagnostic radiographer with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and for membership of the Society and College of Radiographers.
Preparing students for employment is an essential part of our programme.
In addition to the assessed academic and personal skills integrated within the programme, there is a schedule of additional activities designed to enhance the employability of our graduates.
88% of our Medical Imaging students are in or due to start employment or further study fifteen months after graduation.*
Further information on Diagnostic Radiography can be found at:
*based on full-time, first degree, UK domiciled graduates, HESA Graduate Outcomes survey 2018/19
During my fourth year I enjoyed the 10 week clinical placement which I spent solely in a CT and MRI department; getting hands on with scanning, patient care and putting the theoretical teachings into practice.
Being able to choose a wide variety of sites for this placement meant we could compare how different trusts operated their CT and MRI services.
The lecturers had a range of experience in different fields and I particularly enjoyed meeting external speakers who could answer any questions about a career in CT or MRI and exciting advancing practices in these modalities.
I enjoyed the variety of optional modules on offer, meaning we could choose to also study research, leadership, education, advanced clinical practice and other topics which contribute to a radiographer's role, in readiness for employment.
The MSci course helped enhance my CV and contributed to career progression in the direction of cross-sectional imaging.
The dedicated CT and MRI placement provided invaluable scanning experience which improved my confidence when interviewing for CT posts.
I gained more in-depth knowledge about anatomy, cannulation, parameter manipulation, anaphylaxis and contrast media.
I thoroughly enjoyed my time studying radiography at Exeter University and it has set me up for a stable and varied career for life.
Through the four placements I met many interesting and friendly people and made key contacts at various hospitals to aid my future career progression.
MSci Medical Imaging
View all Medical Imaging (Diagnostic Radiography) courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/programmes/diagnosticradiographerbsc:
health.apprenticeships@exeter.ac.uk
Earn whilst you learn
Consistently rated one of the best institutions for Diagnostic Radiography in the UK
Very strong academic, clinical and practice focus
Apply for registration with the HCPC upon successful completion of the programme
The BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography and Imaging is approved by the Health and Care Professions Council.
The BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography and Imaging is approved by the College of Radiographers for a period of five years, from 09/2024 to 08/2029 inclusive.
GCE A-level science grade B
Acceptable science subjects include Biology/Human Biology*; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Electronics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences, Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths*; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
*If more than one of these is taken, they would only count as one 'science' but could count as two A levels towards our general requirements.
Applicants studying a BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma in Health and Social Care (Health Studies) will be accepted without the need for an additional A’ Level science subject.
Applicants studying a BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma in Health and Social Care will be accepted without the need for an additional A’ Level science subject, if at least two of the following modules are taken: Infection Prevention and Control, Psychological Perspectives, Nutritional Health, Biochemistry for Health.
All other applicants will be required to have grade B in an acceptable A ‘Level Science subject.
12 Level 3 credits at Merit Grade in a relevant science subject area.
The Access to Radiography, Health Science or Science will be accepted without the need for an additional A’ Level science subject.
All other applicants will be required to have grade B in an acceptable A’ Level Science subject.
Applicants must also have a valid and eligible residency status to gain entry onto the apprenticeship – please see the ESFA guidance for further information .
There is an additional requirement of the Health and Care Professions Council that apprentices whose first language is not English need to meet IELTS requirements of at least 7.0 overall and no less than 6.5 in any other section.
The Diagnostic Radiographer Degree Apprenticeship does not follow the standard UCAS application process.
To gain a place on an apprenticeship applicants must either:
Full programme cost: £24,000
Successful completion of this apprenticeship programme will ensure apprentices have the skills required to successfully embark on a career as a Diagnostic Radiographer.
They will gain the skills and knowledge needed to continually learn, develop and use evidence-based research to improve practice.
The modules we outline here provide examples of what apprentices can expect to learn on this course.
In the final year, there is an employer negotiated module.
This enables apprentices to gain further experience in a particular area of the department or modality, or gain additional skills such as cannulation.
This Stage provides a foundation in the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required for radiography.
Academic and supported study provides theoretical knowledge of patient care, anatomy, imaging techniques, professional practice and the science that underpins medical imaging.
This academic knowledge is complemented in the workplace which provides a practical environment in which to learn how theory is applied in practice and practical experience in the safe and effective practice of general and fluoroscopic radiography.
Drawing upon the knowledge and skills learnt in Stage one, Stage two develops further understanding of anatomical and physiological concepts in contemporary clinical imaging practice.
You will develop your knowledge of radiation science and gain an appreciation of safe and optimal use of radiation-based imaging techniques.
The Stage two workplace experience provides further opportunities to learn theory as applied to practice and to gain further practical experience of the safe and effective practice of general and fluoroscopic imaging, including the skills required to adapt technique to best meet the needs of the patient.
A wider range of imaging modalities in introduced in Stage two.
The final Stage builds upon the knowledge and skills established in the previous two Stages.
You will integrate theory with practice by drawing on your prior experience of imaging modalities, and reinterpreting your knowledge of imaging within a scientific framework.
During the third Stage in the workplace you will become an integral member of the multi-professional healthcare team and will undertake an audit, service evaluation or piece of research.
You will have responsibility for organising your working day and liaising with staff in other departments, and will gain experience of co-ordinating an inter-professional team.
You will also undertake an employer negotiated placement in a jointly agreed area of practice.
“Studying a degree apprenticeship at Exeter has been an exciting, challenging but hugely rewarding experience.
The team behind my apprenticeship are always on hand if there are any issues and will quickly resolve them.
There is regular communication and a real drive to gain both positive and negative feedback to make the course the best it can be.”
Rachael
Diagnostic Radiographer Degree Apprentice
The Diagnostic Radiographer Degree Apprenticeship is delivered through a combination of work-based practice and blended learning provided by the University.
E-learning elements of the course, including lectures, seminars and online collaborative work, are undertaken through the University’s electronic learning environment.
This will supplement and further the apprentice's learning, as well as providing academic support.
Degree apprenticeship roles are developed with a strong emphasis upon the close relationship between employer and University.
The academic curriculum will, for a large part, follow real delivery in the workplace with the day-to-day challenges faced in a work environment.
The on-campus teaching is a mandatory block attendance at the University of Exeter, consisting of 3 blocks of 4-5 days per year.
Apprentices will also have protected study time during the working week.
Our dedicated partnerships team liaise closely with employers throughout the programme; each apprentice is allocated an academic mentor to ensure their successful completion of the programme
Alongside studying for their level 6 apprenticeship gained after completing the Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours of the apprenticeship standard, apprentices will study for a BSc in Diagnostic Radiography and Imaging.
There is a consistently great need for radiographers with strong clinical skills who enjoy working with patients.
Radiography provides a very diverse range of careers such as advanced and consultant practice, including radiographer reporting and radiographer led-discharge.
Radiography is an area of practice that is constantly evolving and as such, can be a very rewarding career.
In addition, career opportunities exist within research, further developing the profession, as well as within leadership and management.
There is a grading structure that sees an individual’s salary increase as they move up in the profession.
The University’s Careers Service provides a range of support to help apprentices develop skills attractive to employers.
Visit our careers service pages for more information.
The UK faces a significant skills gap for Diagnostic Radiographers within our healthcare workforce with rising employer demand for highly skilled, qualified professionals.
The University has offered an undergraduate degree course since 2004 which is consistently rated as one of the best in the UK.
To meet the needs of specific departments, pathways relating to specific imaging modalities are available.
A distinctive employer negotiated third year placement, agreed between the employer and the apprentice, enables departments to plan their workforce for the future, in the knowledge that they will have new graduates with the skills required for particular aspects of their imaging service.
Diagnostic Radiographer Degree Apprenticeship Employer Booklet BSc

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/medicine/medicine:
BMBS Medicine - 2026 entry
St Luke’s and Truro
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 725500
A-Level: A*AA IB: 38/766 BTEC: D*DD
Joint 1st in the UK for Medicine by Graduate Prospects
Top 10 in the UK for our world-leading and internationally excellent Clinical Medicine research
Based on 4* + 3* research in REF 2021
Joint 17th for Medicine in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Major capital investment in new buildings and state-of-the-art facilities
Accredited by the General Medical Council
The required test scores for this course fall under Profile G .
All applicants are required to have taken either the UCAT Test or the GAMSAT Test.
All applications for full-time study must be made through UCAS.
The deadline for applications to UCAS is 15 October .
No more than four choices should be used for clinical programmes.
Please note meeting the typical offer range does not guarantee being shortlisted for an interview.
Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview between December and March.
UCAT - Candidates applying with predicted or achieved A levels will also be required to sit the University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT).
Applications will then be sorted according to academic profile and UCAT overall score in order to determine which applicants will receive an offer of an interview.
Watch the UCAT Preparation plan video .
GAMSAT - Candidates applying with an existing degree, or if it will be more than two full academic years (September to August) since you completed your A levels or equivalent qualifications when you enter the BMBS programme, will be required to sit the Graduate Medical School Admissions Test (GAMSAT).
Applications will be sorted according to the GAMSAT overall score.
The interview style will be Multiple Mini Interview (MMI).
The interview may take place either in person or online.
Assistance for travel is available to those who meet certain eligibility criteria.
All applications are considered on an individual basis and offers will be made by the end of March.‌ Please see the BMBS Admissions Process Policy 2026 (.pdf) for full details on our admissions selection process.
We require all medical students to be immunised against certain infectious diseases to meet health and safety standards required to work with patients.
Enrolled medical students will be unable to undertake their studies without evidence of completion of the vaccination process.
Offers for this programme will be conditional on a completed Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
All successful applicants will be required to sign the appropriate student agreement.
If you have any questions relating to submitting an application for the BMBS programme we recommend that you review our BMBS FAQs page prior to contacting us via telephone or e-mail.
The five-year Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (BMBS) programme draws on the strength of our partnership with the NHS in Devon and Cornwall to provide a unique learning experience in healthcare.
It develops skills for lifelong learning and the professional attitudes that you will need throughout your medical career.
The importance of a multi-professional perspective is a key component.
The curriculum provides a clinical focus that is patient-centred, forward-thinking and meets the needs of students who want to work as doctors in an increasingly integrated, internationalised health environment.
It also includes the whole health community, not just hospitals.
This recognises the community role in chronic illness and prevention and provides the social context, giving you a wider perspective and understanding.
You will gain placement experience throughout your studies.
In the later years of the programme you will be immersed in the clinical environment with extensive opportunities for learning from patients as you move through the pathways of the patient care programme.
The community placements provide experience of the multi-professional nature of medicine and the importance of the healthcare team.
An intercalated degree provides the opportunity to explore another discipline at degree level, bringing added breadth and depth to your study.
You may have the opportunity to intercalate and study 120 credits from another Bachelor’s degree (usually the final year) or a one-year Masters degree from a wide range of options available at the University of Exeter.
Although intercalation means an extra year of study, it can enhance the undergraduate experience by providing additional specialist knowledge and transferable skills which can be a real asset in your future professional life.
The electives form a very important part of the curriculum, enabling you to experience medicine in an entirely new environment, both socially and culturally.
Electives may involve clinical or research placements, or a combination of both.
Many students take this opportunity to see the practice of medicine in another part of the world, for example, by exploring the delivery of clinical care in developing countries, through placements in mission or government hospitals.
Other students arrange elective placements within the South West or other parts of the UK.
There are few restrictions on what you might wish to do, provided this is clearly set out in the context of agreed learning objectives.
At the end of the undergraduate programme you will receive your BMBS degree, which is a primary medical qualification (PMQ).
This entitles you to provisional registration with the General Medical Council.
Provisionally registered doctors can only practise in approved Foundation Year 1 posts: the law does not allow provisionally registered doctors to undertake any other type of work.
To obtain a Foundation Year 1 post you will need to apply during the final year of your undergraduate degree through the UK Foundation Programme Office selection scheme, which allocates these posts to graduates on a competitive basis.
When able, students are encouraged to take part in peer physical examinations, where students perform non-intimate examinations on one another to gain better understanding and knowledge of anatomy and physiology.
For your first year, you will be based at the St Luke’s Campus, Exeter and experience university life to the full.
You will learn core biomedical and psychosocial concepts within clinical context, alongside clinical placement experiences and clinical skills training.
In the second year you will further develop your core biomedical, psychological, sociological and population health knowledge on one of our main medical school campuses, in a more integrated and further contextualised manner, increasing your range of clinical skills and placements.
In the third year, you will commence Clinical Pathways 1 at one of our secondary care NHS Trust sites.
Your learning will be patient-centred and you will rotate through a series of hospital and community placements across either Devon or Cornwall.
Clinical Pathways 2 is undertaken in your fourth year and will provide extensive experience of a wide range of clinical settings throughout either Devon or Cornwall, further increasing your clinical knowledge and skills particularly through an increasing range of clinical specialities.
In your final year, you will learn the job of medicine and start to develop your own clinical practice in preparation for graduation.
You’ll undertake a series of apprenticeship attachments in NHS hospitals across the South West.
At this stage you will have developed the personal and learning skills required to analyse and evaluate patients’ conditions and to suggest forms of clinical management.
You’ll also take a Student-Selected Elective which may involve clinical or research placements, or a combination of both.
Many students take this opportunity to see the practice of medicine in another part of the world.
UK students: £9,535 per year International students: £47,500 per year
Our learning and teaching are based around a patient-centred education and a culture that is sensitive to the needs of our students.
A patient-centred education means that you will become a clinically skilled graduate with a strong knowledge of contemporary science, an awareness of research and excellent professional behaviour.
You will benefit from structured small group learning and an intensively supported learning environment and be taught to challenge, stretch, reward and empower yourself.
On graduation you will be able to approach clinical problems holistically, have excellent communication skills, be empathetic and a good listener.
You will be confident working in multi-professional teams, be able to seek and appraise the best evidence to inform your practice and be capable of meeting the health care needs of society.
Students studying the BMBS programme at the University of Exeter will be expected to spend a portion of their degree studying in different locations across Devon and Cornwall.
This will include a minimum of one year and maximum of two years being based in the Knowledge Spa at the Royal Cornwall Hospital Trust (Truro) , which is a modern, multi-disciplinary building with specialist teaching facilities.
You will be required to relocate to Cornwall to undertake this portion of your education.
Find out more about Student Life in Cornwall , where some medical students choose to live on Penryn Campus, and others live in Truro.
Time for independent study is built into the timetable, enabling you to take advantage of the wide array of resources available to support your learning.
You will have access to excellent amenities; at the University and NHS sites there are extensive library and learning facilities.
State-of-the-art IT and e-learning resources are a key tool to help support your learning.
In the later years of the programme your learning occurs predominantly within the clinical environment with extensive opportunities for learning from patients as you move through the pathways of the patient care programme.
The first two years of the curriculum are centred around small group learning.
In groups of 8 to 10, you’ll work through a series of clinical cases, each lasting two weeks.
Each tutor guided group meets weekly during the three week study unit to discuss the case(s) provided and then you’ll report back your individual research findings.
Between meetings, you’ll undertake research and independent study on all aspects of the case from the biomedical, public health, human science and professional points of view.
All students in your year will come together for large group teaching sessions.
These lectures focus on specific subjects relevant to the cases you are studying and often involve external experts.
The Life Sciences Resource Centre (LSRC) on the St Luke’s Campus develops your knowledge of the structure and function of the human body.
Your understanding of anatomy develops through using medical imaging, including x-rays, magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasound, coupled with the study of plastinates, models, living anatomy and virtual multimedia methods.
Relevant clinical anatomy is taught using the knowledge and experience of clinicians.
You’ll learn clinical and communication skills in a safe environment within the Clinical Skills Resource Centre (CSRC), based at the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, before using them in a real clinical setting.
The CSRC contains state-of-the-art electronic patient simulators, mock NHS wards and emergency departments.
You will learn to gather information, carry out physical examinations, conduct patient and family interviews, develop your diagnostic skills and perform a variety of practical procedures including injections, venepuncture and basic life support.
You’ll also develop the ability to interact with patients in a variety of situations.
Learning and improving communication skills enables you to understand the needs of individual patients, physically and psychologically.
Extensive exposure to real patients in clinical settings underpins the development of your clinical skills.
This experience will help you become an expert in the clinical environment.
In your clinical placements during the first two years, you’ll experience how healthcare is delivered in both the community and hospital.
You will normally meet your first patient within the first few weeks of your first year.
During your placements, you’ll also learn from patients about the breadth of diseases and health problems in a community and the effect of social and environmental factors on disease.
This will help you to understand the multi-professional nature of medicine and the importance of the wider healthcare team.
This part of the programme is divided into ‘pathways of care’.
In your third year you will study pathways in medicine, surgery, general practice and other hospital specialities.
In year four, these continue with a focus on acute care, the complexities of chronic care, and palliative care/oncology.
These pathways emphasise the importance of continuing to acquire knowledge in biomedical science, psychology, sociology and population health, while also refining and building on the clinical and communication skills you developed in your first two years.
Your knowledge of biomedical, clinical and human science is developed during placements, through meeting patients at home, in general practice, in acute and community hospitals and through interaction with healthcare professionals in their working environment.
You’ll experience how the NHS works as a team to deliver patient care.
Your learning during each pathway is supported by an academic programme, which develops your knowledge of common medical conditions and professional issues.
One day each week is devoted to lectures, tutorials, clinical skills sessions, workshops and professional development groups which build on your previous learning and help to integrate your scientific and clinical knowledge.
The emphasis on teaching and learning in small groups continues helping you understand the key concepts and knowledge that relate to each pathway.
Special study units involve working with staff from the NHS, the University and the community in a wide range of disciplines to study areas of particular interest to you.
With more than 200 options, the units provide a challenging and stimulating way to develop your critical thinking, scientific and analytical skills.
During the first two years, each SSU takes place over a three-week block.
Subject matters include opportunities to consider how the study of the humanities offers insights into the lived experience of people experiencing lives very different from our own, as well as a wide variety of biomedical science and healthcare placements.
In your third and fourth years, you’ll continue to study in a clinical environment and learn how multi-professional teams and management deliver and improve healthcare.
In addition to the wide variety of clinical options available, you will also have the opportunity to learn more about the research process, through a longer attachment to one of our research teams, and to study an area of medical humanities of interest to you.
You’ll be able to develop your teaching and learning skills through another special study unit, ‘Doctor as Teacher’.
The overall aim of this unit is to enable you to acquire the professional attitudes, knowledge and skills of a competent teacher and to prepare for the transition from medical student to doctor.
As part of an exciting new development, and in line with the University of Exeter Internationalisation Strategy, you will have the opportunity to have clinical placements overseas with partner organisations such as Wollega Medical School in Ethiopia, the University of South Florida, and partners in China, Malaysia, and more.
This will give you a wider global view of how health and education systems operate, and equip you to be part of the international medical world.
The international placements programme will also complement and enhance your elective experience after Year 4.
All students are allocated an academic tutor who oversees your academic progress and personal and professional development.
Your tutor is the first point of contact for academic support for the duration of the programme.
You will change tutors each year.
Assessment is an important part of the learning process: it demonstrates the standard you are achieving as well as that to which you are working.
Your progress is assessed in relation to your knowledge and your work in clinical practice and you will be provided with continuous feedback, enabling you to identify strengths as well as areas for improvement.
The Applied Medical Knowledge Progress Test is one of the key features of our approach to assessment.
The Progress Test, which is delivered in a multiple-choice question format, is designed to assess long-term and functional knowledge rather than detailed and easily forgotten ‘facts’.
It is a measure of how much you are learning, not how good you are at revision, cramming or rote memorisation.
Following every test that you take, four per year in total, you will receive your grade and percentage score as well as the mean percentage of each test.
Your performance in assessment is formally reviewed each term to ensure that any problems that you may be experiencing with your learning can be identified early.
We seek to support students whose performance may be a cause for concern.
If you need support you will be referred to trained staff and receive a confidential report containing recommendations on how changes to individual learning styles, techniques, assessment strategies and attitude to work may improve performance.
In addition, at the end of the academic year all aspects of your performance are reviewed to ensure you are ready to move onto the next year of study or receive your primary medical qualification at the end of year five.
If you are not ready to progress, you might be asked to repeat a year, but we never ask students to leave the programme on academic grounds without giving them plenty of opportunity to reflect on, review and remediate their performance.
The General Medical Council (GMC) is the regulatory body for all doctors and medical students in the UK.
Like all the medical schools in the UK, we have to demonstrate that our course and assessments reach the standard that the GMC expects, so they are able to reassure the public that our graduates are safe to practice medicine.
With this in mind, the GMC is introducing the Medical Licencing Assessment (MLA) which all students in UK medical schools will have to take and pass to enable them to graduate and practice as doctors from the academic year 2022/23.
Potentially, this exam could form part of a medical school’s regular final exams, so for many medical schools, it will be a matter of demonstrating clearly to the GMC that their finals are of an appropriate standard.
The MLA is still at the development stage.
We know that there will be an applied medical knowledge (AKT) test, our regular exams here at Exeter and a clinical exam – again similar to our regular exams.
We are working with the GMC to ensure that our students at Exeter are very well prepared for the MLA in their final years.
At the end of the undergraduate programme, which will be subject to General Medical Council (GMC) approval, you will receive your BMBS degree, which is a primary medical qualification (PMQ).
Holding a PMQ entitles you to provisional registration with the GMC.
So far, all suitably qualified UK graduates have found a place on the Foundation Year 1 programme, but this cannot be guaranteed, for instance if there were to be an excessive number of competitive applications from non-UK graduates.
Successful completion of the Foundation Year 1 programme is normally achieved within 12 months and is marked by the award of a Certificate of Experience.
You will then be eligible to apply for full registration with the General Medical Council.
You need full registration with a licence to practise for unsupervised medical practice in the NHS or private practice in the UK.
To find out about registration information for the General Medical Council (GMC), please read our Information regarding registration with the GMC document .
There is a broad spectrum of careers within clinical practice across medical, surgical and other specialities.
Whilst many of these have historically been hospital-based, healthcare is moving towards a more community-centred model of delivery and consequently doctors will be increasingly expected to deliver healthcare in a range of settings.
The range of placement opportunities throughout the programme will help to develop your skills and experience of working in different healthcare settings and enable you to understand how organisations operate.
This, alongside tailored careers advisory sessions and events provided in partnership with the Health Education South West (formerly the South West Peninsula Deanery) will also help you to make informed career choices.
GMC accredited Medical degrees are recognised in many countries around the world.
International students are encouraged to check with their local Medical Councils on the recognition of our BMBS programme as different legislation may apply.
The College doesn't guarantee registration in other countries that we are not currently registered in.
At the end of the undergraduate programme you will receive your MBBS (or equivalent) degree, which is a primary medical qualification (PMQ).
Holding a PMQ entitles you to provisional registration with the General Medical Council, subject only to its acceptance that there are no Fitness to Practise concerns that need consideration.
Provisional registration is time limited to a maximum of three years and 30 days (1125 days in total).
After this time period your provisional registration will normally expire.
To obtain a Foundation Year 1 post you will need to apply during the final year of your undergraduate programme through the UK Foundation Programme Office selection scheme, which allocates these posts to graduates on a competitive basis.
All suitably qualified UK graduates have found a place on the Foundation Year 1 programme, but this cannot be guaranteed, for instance if there were to be an increased number of competitive applications from non-UK graduates.
Although this information is currently correct, students need to be aware that regulations in this area may change from time to time.
There is some discussion about whether to remove provisional registration for newly qualified doctors.
If this happens then UK graduates will receive full registration as soon as they have successfully completed an MBBS (or equivalent) degree.
It should be noted that it is very likely that UK graduates will still need to apply for a training programme similar to the current Foundation Programme and that places on this programme may not be guaranteed for every UK graduate.
The GMC is currently considering the introduction of a formal assessment that UK medical graduates would need to pass in order to be granted registration with a licence to practise.
Although no final decision has been taken as to whether or when such an exam will be introduced applicants should be aware that the GMC envisages that future cohorts of medical students may need to pass parts of a medical licensing assessment scheme, which allocates these posts to graduates on a competitive basis.
Although no final decision has been taken as to whether or when such an exam will be introduced applicants should be aware that the GMC envisages that future cohorts of medical students may need to pass parts of a medical licensing assessment before the GMC will grant them registration with a licence to practise.
The highlights for me have been the fantastic placements which I have been able to experience from the first week at Exeter.
It has allowed me to grow and develop into a future doctor, not just a medical student.
During an intercalated year students take a one-year interlude in the Medicine programme to study a subject of their choice at either Bachelor’s or Master’s degree level.
This optional opportunity enables selected students to pursue a subject of their choice in depth supplementing the vigorous education that they receive as part of the Medicine programme.
An intercalated degree may be particularly beneficial to those considering a career in research or academic medicine.
Currently, the University of Exeter offers students the opportunity to undertake an intercalated degree between years 3 and 4 of the Medicine programme.
Yes - The University of Exeter welcomes applications from medical, veterinary and dental students from across the UK who have completed at least two years of their course (or three years for applications to Master’s level programmes), who have permission to undertake an intercalated degree from their home institution and will return to their home institution upon completion of the course.
If you are an external student interested in pursuing an intercalated degree at the University of Exeter, please visit the External Intercalation Applicants page or contact: ICD@exeter.ac.uk .
The University of Exeter offers a number of different intercalated Bachelor’s degree programmes.
Unless stated otherwise these courses are taught at the Exeter-based campuses.
All programmes listed are subject to availability.
The University of Exeter offers numerous different Master’s degree programmes (both taught and/or research based).
These are listed below.
For further information, or if you are an external student interested in pursuing an intercalated degree at the University of Exeter, please contact: ICD@exeter.ac.uk .
View all Medicine courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mining/foundation:
BEng Mining Engineering with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
If you are an international student looking for a foundation course, please visit our INTO page .
*Accepted GCE A-Level/AS science subjects include: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Statistics.
Visit the course page for BEng Mining Engineering for more details about the learning and teaching methods for the subsequent years of your degree programme.
As you progress through your degree, you will hear about the latest research and have opportunities to become involved in a research project yourself.
Throughout the BEng Mining Engineering degree, a strong emphasis is placed on your personal and professional development.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/mining/miningb:
BEng Mining Engineering (Part-time) - 2026 entry
A level: AAB-ABB IB: 34/665-32/655 BTEC: DDD-DDM
Programme Director: Declan Vogt
Email: miningDAPT@exeter.ac.uk
2nd in the UK for Mineral and Mining Engineering
Study at Camborne School of Mines
The required test scores for this course fall under Profile B3 .
Recognition of prior learning and experience is also available.
Students will need to already have a position or job offer from a mining company that is willing to support the application.
Please get in touch with us to proceed with an application.
If a candidate meets the funding eligibility criteria for a degree apprenticeship, please see our Mine Management Degree Apprenticeship programme .
To be eligible for funding, the apprentice must meet the criteria listed in the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) guidance .
If you have a query regarding eligibility, please contact Anna Dickinson (Partnership Development Officer) at miningDAPT@exeter.ac.uk .
As we move towards a world of carbon neutrality there has never been a greater need for the metals that enable renewable energy generation, like copper, lithium, steel and aluminium.
That demand translates directly to good jobs for mining engineers.
Our ambition is for our students to graduate, academically ready to grow into senior roles.
Students will gain the knowledge and experience to enable them to:
The course involves approximately six hours a week of remote learning, up to four weeks of on-site activity per year and the implementation of this knowledge via practising skills and behaviours in the workplace.
Students can expect to be stretched and challenged but supported throughout as they develop the academic skills required to rise through the ranks in the mining, tunnelling and allied industries.
The first year includes an introduction to the business of mine, the core engineering disciplines of maths, mechanics and fluid mechanics, and engineering thinking, introduced through the Mine Challenge Project.
In second and third year, the focus shifts to mining engineering skills such as geology, rock mechanics, safety, ventilation, and allied skills such as sustainability and mine closure.
In final year, strategy subjects are introduced, and the course ends with a group project that demonstrates students' competence.
The employer fully covers the cost of this programme; students do not pay for any of the eligible training costs.
The student will be an employee of the organisation, gaining a University of Exeter degree alongside working and earning a salary.
On average, approximately six hours per week of a learner’s contractual working time will be given over to directed learning, typically consisting of around six hours per week of remote learning and up to four weeks per year of site visits and residentials on various mines and at Cambourne School of Mines (CSM).
The first year provides fundamental knowledge underlying mining engineer including mathematics, mechanics and fluid mechanics.
The mining business is also introduced, and students undertake a challenge project alone or in small groups at their place of work.
In the second year, further basic skills are acquired, such as electrical engineering, geology and geomatics, and the course starts to move into the core mining subjects such as excavation design, geomechanics and safety and hazard management.
The third year continues the pairing of core mining subjects including tunnelling and underground space, and ventilation with important related subjects such as mine closure and risk management.
Residentials will consist of two-week study blocks and on-site introductions to mining topics.
The opportunities to meet as a group will allow students to share learning from their own experiences and their own mines and to grow their technical peer network.
During and outside of this time students will also be able to meet one-to-one with their academic mentor, as well as participating in progress review meetings with both their academic and workplace mentors approximately every six weeks.
Students on this course will be a full, salaried member of an organisation.
Much of the learning will take place at work, either through projects linked to academic content or time set aside for distance learning.
Students will be working in an exciting and relevant job from day one of their studies, meaning when they graduate, they'll have both the professional and academic experience sought after by employers.
The structure of the course means that students will gain knowledge, skills and behaviours to be a fully-fledged mining engineer at the end of the programme.
They will have gained experience in areas including mine design, operations, geotechnical, business, safety, environment, tactical and strategic thinking – all routes to careers within mining and related industries.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/programmes/mining:
Mine Management Degree Apprenticeship
See How to apply
Programme Director: Lewis Meyer Email: miningDAPT@exeter.ac.uk
Apprentices will need to already have a position or job offer from a mining company that is willing to support the application.
To be eligible for funding, the apprentice must meet the criteria listed in the Department for Education guidance .
Please get in touch with us to proceed with an application or see more information on how to apply .
If a candidate does not meet the funding eligibility criteria for a degree apprenticeship, please see our BEng Mining Engineering part-time programme for the rest of the UK and international students.
The employer fully covers the cost of this apprenticeship; students do not pay for any of the eligible training costs.
The students will be an employee of the organisation, gaining a L6 apprenticeship and a University of Exeter award, alongside working and earning a salary.
Our ambition is for our apprentices to graduate, academically ready to grow into senior roles.
Apprentices will gain the knowledge and experience to enable them to:
The apprenticeship involves approximately six hours a week of remote learning, up to four weeks of on-site activity per year and the implementation of this knowledge via the practicing of skills and behaviours in the workplace.
Apprentices can expect to be stretched and challenged but supported throughout as they develop the academic skills required to rise through the ranks in the mining, tunnelling and allied industries.
Your first year includes an introduction the business of mine, the core engineering disciplines of maths, mechanics and fluid mechanics, and engineering thinking, introduced through the Mine Challenge Project.
In final year, strategy subjects are introduced, and the course ends with a group project that demonstrates your competence.
On average, approximately six hours per week of a learner’s contractual working time will be given over to directed learning, typically consisting of around six hours per week of remote learning and up to four weeks per year of site visits and residentials on various mines and at CSM.
The mining business is also introduced, and apprentices undertake a challenge project alone or in small groups at their place of work.
In final year, the focus moves to tools for strategic thinking: economics, business evaluation, planning, and environmental and social governance, and the year ends with a major project, to put into practice all the skills learnt in the four years of study: Apprentices will complete an individual or group project in the final year; an opportunity to apply knowledge and skills to devise an engineering solution at a professional level.
The individual or group project should be done in collaboration with employers, giving the company a tangible benefit.
Residentials will consist of two-week study blocks in Cornwall, and on-site introductions to mining topics at mines across the UK.
The extensive opportunities to meet as a group will allow apprentices to share learning from their own experiences and their own mines and to grow their technical peer network.
During and outside of this time apprentices will also be able to meet one-to-one with their academic mentor, as well as participating in progress review meetings with both their academic and work place mentors approximately every six weeks.
Apprentices will be a full, salaried member of an organisation.
Apprentices will be working in an exciting and relevant job from day one of their studies, meaning when they graduate, they'll have both the professional and academic experience sought after by employers.
The structure of the apprenticeship standards means that apprentices will gain knowledge, skills and behaviours to be a fully-fledged mining engineer at the end of the programme.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/languages/modlang:
BA Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA Modern Languages (3 years)
All languages ranked top 20 in the Complete University Guide 2026
Find out more about our Language entry requirements
When completing your UCAS form it is essential that you indicate the language(s) you want to study with us under ‘further details’ in the ‘choices’ section of the application form using the below abbreviations (separated by a space).
Please note that you may only choose one language if applying to a Combined Honours degree.
For more information on language requirements for our Combined Honours degrees, visit the individual pages for these programmes in the degrees list on the Modern Languages and Cultures page.
Find out more about the various pathways you can take .
One Advanced language studied in Year 1
A level grade B or IB HL 5 or SL6  (or equivalent) in the language chosen at Advanced level
One Beginners language studied in Year 1
No previous language qualifications required.
We strongly recommend that students who want to start a languages degree with no previous linguistic experience should contact us .
Two languages studied in Year 1 (either Advanced or Beginners)
A level grade B or IB HL 5 or SL6 (or equivalent) in the language(s) chosen at advanced level
Three languages studied in Year 1 (either Advanced or Beginners)
A level grade A or IB HL 6 or SL6 (or equivalent) in the languages chosen at advanced level
The Modern Languages degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each, worth a total of 120 credits each year.
30-90 credits of compulsory modules, 30-90 credits of optional modules.
a - select one, two, or three compulsory language modules depending on your UCAS offer, totalling 30-90 credits.
b - select a further 30-90 optional credits; Please note that certain modules may only be available to students on Single Honours programmes, or to students who have taken a particular language module.
c - select one, two, or three compulsory language modules, totalling 30-90 credits.
d - select a further 30-90 optional credits; you may select a maximum of 30 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
' It is your responsibility to ensure that credit for SML modules can be counted towards the language of your study, where this is necessary for your credit count'
International placement (if taken)
The International Placement can be one of the most rewarding and enjoyable aspects of a Modern Languages degree.
It is also one of the major factors that makes languages graduates attractive to employers: negotiating the challenges of a year abroad is seen by employers as proof of adaptability, independence and resourcefulness.
Students usually spend six to 15 months abroad working, studying or teaching.
By immersing yourself in the culture you study, you will not only enhance your language skills, but cultivate:
Please also note that, if you are starting a language from beginner level, you must take the four-year programme to ensure you develop the necessary language skills.
If you are studying languages post-A level, it is possible to choose the three-year programme.
You can apply to both the three and four-year courses via UCAS.
e - You must take one of these modules.
f - select one, two, or three compulsory language modules, totaling 30-90 credits.
g - select a further 30-90 optional credits; you may select a maximum of 30 credits of the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
These are additional to SML3015 or SML3030.
You must always ensure that credit for SML modules can be counted towards the language of your study, where this is necessary for your credit count.
Students following the three-language pathway should not normally take more than one SML- or HUM- coded module per year, and if aiming for all three languages to be listed as 'majors' in the degree title must ensure that this module can be counted towards one of the three languages.
As part of the 4-year Modern Languages course, you will choose from one of seven languages taught at Exeter.
The exact languages you study can be tailored to your interests and needs once you get here.
In addition, there is also the possibility to take modules in the Language Centre or the Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies as a second or third language through modularity, subject to approval.
Please note that you can only start a new language in years one and two.
Students taking only one language in Year 1 can add a Beginners level language in Year 2.
Students taking two languages in Year 1 can add a third (Beginners level) language in Year 2, subject to performance in the first two languages.
One language: at Beginners or Advanced* level
French; German; Italian; Russian; Spanish;
Chinese (Mandarin); French; German; Italian; Portuguese; Russian; Spanish
Two languages: One new language at Beginners level and one at Advanced* level OR both at Advanced* level
French; German; Italian; Russian; Spanish
Three languages: Two languages at Advanced* level and one new language at Beginners level OR three languages at Advanced* level
*Post-A level or equivalent
Students have the option of studying languages at Beginners and Advanced level, depending on the number of languages they choose to study.
The programme has been designed to give our students maximum flexibility, with the option to add or remove languages after your first year of study with us.
The sample pathways below show the possible routes you could take for your BA Modern Languages.
Please note that:
Pathway A - One language
Study one language and graduate with BA (Hons) in one language, e.g.
BA (Hons) French.
Students can choose to study one Beginners or one Advanced language in Year 1.
Please see the Overview above for details of languages available.
You will study 1st year core language modules, plus you can select from a variety of modules covering areas such as cultural, literary and linguistics topics.
You can also study modules from other disciplines outside of Modern Languages such as Politics and History.
You will study 2nd year core language modules, plus you can select from a variety of modules covering areas such as cultural, literary and linguistics topics.
Your International Placement (work or study) will be spent in a country of the language either:
If you are studying a Beginners language from Year 1, you must spend your third year in the country of that language.
You will study final year core language modules, plus you can select from a variety of modules covering cultural, literary and linguistic aspects of the language.
Pathway B - Two equal languages
Study two languages and graduate with BA (Hons) in two languages, e.g.
BA (Hons) Italian and Spanish.
Your study will be divided 50/50 between two languages and will include 1st year core language modules for both.
You can also select from a variety of modules covering cultural, literary and linguistic aspects of the languages.
Your study will be divided 50/50 between two languages and will include core language modules for both.
Pathway C - Three equal languages
Study three languages and graduate with a BA (Hons) in three languages, e.g.
BA (Hons) Italian, Russian and Spanish.
Your study will include 1st year core language modules for the three languages.
Plus you can select two option modules, covering cultural, literary and linguistic aspects, from any of the three languages.
Your study will include 2nd year core language modules for the three languages.
Your study will include final year core language modules for the three languages.
Pathway D - A main language and a secondary language
The study of two languages, with the option from Year 1 or Year 2 take up modules in another discipline, e.g.
Business Studies.
Graduate with BA (Hons) in language 1 with language 2, e.g.
BA (Hons) German with Russian.
Either: your study will be divided 50/50 between two languages and will include 1st year core language modules for both languages.
OR
You decide to expand the focus of your study by including modules from another discipline, such as the Business School, to enhance your employability.
For language 1 you study core language modules, plus you can select from a variety of option modules.
For language 2 you study core language modules.
You also study 1st year modules from your other discipline, e.g.
You start or continue to expand the focus of your study by including modules from another discipline, such as the Business School, to enhance your employability.
You also study modules  from your other discipline, e.g.
Your International Placement (work or study) will be spent in a country of language 1 or 2 either:
You will study final year core language modules for both languages, plus you can select from a variety of option modules covering cultural, literary and linguistic aspects of the languages.
Additionally, you can study 2nd year core modules from your other discipline.
Employability skills are firmly embedded in our teaching.
This allows you to not only impress with your linguistic and cultural skills, but how best to present yourself.
An International Placement is an excellent way to boost your employability skills.
Our preparation for the third year abroad begins in year two when we talk about intercultural skills and differences between languages and cultures, while also covering practical necessities such as writing a CV or a cover letter or how to address an employee at the bank where you seek to open an account.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/intlrel_modlang:
BA International Relations and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
A-Level: BBC IB: 28/554 BTEC: DDM
BA International Relations and Modern Languages (3 years)
81% of politics graduates in or due to start employment or further study fifteen months after graduation*
*based on full-time, first degree, UK domiciled graduates, HESA Graduate Outcomes survey 2021/22
You may choose one language to study alongside International Relations.
The degree is made up of compulsory and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
You will take half your credits in International Relations and the remaining credits in your chosen language.
30 credits of compulsory International Relations modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 60 credits of optional modules (including 30 credits of International Relations modules, and 30 consisting of content related to your chosen language.
Select 30 credits of International Relations modules from this list.
b - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules for the year.
select 30 credits of International Relations modules from this list.
d - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.It is your responsibility to ensure that credit for SML modules can be counted towards the language of your study, where this is necessary for your credit count
60 credits of International Relations modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language
Select 30-60 credits of option modules in International Relations.
f - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; you may select a maximum of 15 credits of the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year, these are additional to SML3015.
In Modern Languages our teaching aims not to just improve your production and comprehension of the language but also help to develop your language-learning skills.
All language students have access to the language-learning facilities provided by the Language Centre , which include satellite television channels in each of our languages and audio, computer and multi-media language-learning packages
Combining International Relations with a Modern Language will not only develop your understanding of complex political and cultural issues but you will also graduate with language skills that are particularly valued by a wide range of employers within finance, law, the media as well as the business and public sectors.
The broad range of transferable skills gained on a International Relations and Modern Languages degree enable graduates to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:
A Modern Languages degree is also excellent preparation for postgraduate study, and recent graduates have progressed to a range of courses, including: MA European Politics, Graduate Diploma in Law, PGCE Secondary French, MA International Relations, MSc Globalisation and Latin American Development and MA Translation and Professional Language Skills.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy/modlang:
BA Philosophy and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA Philosophy and Modern Languages (3 years)
You may choose one language to study alongside Philosophy.
The Philosophy and Modern Languages degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
45 credits of compulsory Philosophy modules, and 15 credits of optional Philosophy modules.
b - select 45 credits of compulsory Philosophy modules from the list below.
d - Select 15 credits of Philosophy option modules.
f - select 45 credit of compulsory Philosophy modules from the list below
g - select 15 a credit of Philosophy module from the option list.
Alternatively a further module from the core list could also be chosen.
60 credits of optional Philosophy modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language
j - Select 60 credits of option modules in Philosophy.
Philosophy modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=philosophy Please note that modules are subject to change and not all modules are available across all programmes, this is due to timetable, module size constraints and availability.
k - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; you may select a maximum of 15 credits of the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year, these are additional to SML3015.
Philosophy degrees are popular with employers because they produce students who think analytically and creatively and know how to relate to people.
You will develop a range of professional, academic and personal skills that are good preparation for a number of careers including in the media, public sector, legal profession, business and management.
The broad range of transferable skills gained on a Philosophy and Modern Languages degree enable graduates to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:
A Philosophy and Modern Languages degree is also excellent preparation for postgraduate study, and recent graduates have progressed to a range of courses, including: MA European Politics, Graduate Diploma in Law, PGCE Secondary French, MA International Relations, MSc Globalisation and Latin American Development and MA Translation and Professional Language Skills.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/modlang:
BA Politics and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA Politics and Modern Languages (3 years)
You may choose one language to study alongside Politics.
You will take half your credits in Politics and the remaining credits in your chosen language.
30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 90 credits of optional modules (including 60 credits of Politics modules, and 30 consisting of content related to your chosen language.
a select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language
b select 60 credits of optional Politics modules.
Politics and International Relations modules
c select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules for the year.
30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 60 credits of optional modules in Politics and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
d select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
e select 60 credits of optional modules in Politics.
f select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; on the Modern Languages side of your programme, you may select a maximum of 15 credits of either the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year.
60 credits of optional Politics modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language
g select 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language.
h select 30-60 credits of option modules in Politics.
i select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; you may select a maximum of 15 credits of the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year, these are additional to SML3015.
It is your responsibility to ensure that credit for SML modules can be counted towards the language of your study, where this is necessary for your credit count
You must pass your first-year modules in order to proceed but your performance at this level does not count towards your final degree classification.
Combining Politics with a Modern Language will not only develop your understanding of complex political and cultural issues but you will also graduate with language skills that are particularly valued by a wide range of employers within finance, law, the media as well as the business and public sectors.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology/modlang:
BA Sociology and Modern Languages - 2026 entry
BA Sociology and Modern Languages (3 years)
It has been extremely interesting to have such a vast array of different topics within each term, I have studied subjects which I did not know existed!
Read more from Nia
Nia
Undergraduate student, BA Sociology
The Sociology and Modern Languages degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
60 credits of compulsory Sociology modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
30 credits of compulsory modules in Sociology, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language, 30 credits of optional modules in Sociology and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language.
select 15 credits of optional modules in Sociology / Anthropology
It is your ensure that credit for SML modules can be counted towards the language of your study, where this is necessary for your credit responsibility to count.
60 credits of optional Sociology modules, 30 credits of compulsory modules in your chosen language and 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language
select 60 credits of option modules in Sociology / Anthropology Please note that modules are subject to change and not all modules are available across all programmes, this is due to timetable, module size constraints and availability.
f - select 30 credits of optional modules consisting of content related to your chosen language; you may select a maximum of 15 credits of the SML- or HUM-coded modules listed below for the year, these are additional to SML3015.
All language students have access to the language-learning facilities provided by the Language Centre , which include satellite television channels in each of our languages and audio, computer and multi-media language-learning packages.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/natural-sciences/bsc:
BSc Natural Sciences - 2026 entry
A levels: AAA IB: 36/666 BTEC: DDD
1st in the sector for student satisfaction in 6 out of 7 themes
National Student Survey 2023: Natural Sciences
2nd in the UK for Natural Sciences
Study across Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Mathematics and Physics
Spend time at a university abroad as part of your degree
This programme is accredited to meet the educational requirements of the Society of Natural Sciences (SocNatSci) .
I chose Natural Sciences at Exeter because of the variety of modules available, with options that I knew I’d enjoy and the chance to try new things.
It’s really broadened my knowledge across all sciences, especially physics which I didn’t have an A-level in.
Lucie
Studying Natural Sciences
Your first year will be made up of four modules through which you’ll be introduced to interdisciplinary research, ideas and philosophy which form the basis of Natural Sciences.
You’ll explore experimental science in the lab where you’ll complete a series of experiments that complement your lectures.
As you move in to your second year a wide range of optional modules from across physics, biology, maths and natural sciences will be available, giving you a great amount of freedom to follow your interests.
You’ll also design, build and run an extended experiment as part of ‘Frontiers of Science 2’.
Up to 30 credits may be taken from other relevant University modules, for which you have the necessary pre-requisites, and with agreement with your Personal Tutor.
Your final year includes two major projects.
The Research Project will see you working on current research being undertaken by one of the University’s research groups while the Group Project will involve working as a team with other finalists to complete a project of your choosing.
Group projects typically involve a piece of scientific research, but could also be related to outreach, widening participation or work aimed at encouraging greater gender equality within the sciences.
In addition to these projects you will choose three optional modules.
An indicative list is provided below but this list is not exhaustive and you are encouraged to look at the range of modules on offer across the University.
Our Natural Sciences degree will place you at the heart of a community of internationally respected scientists, who are exploring some of the most important developments of the future, and whose enthusiasm for research is matched by their passion for teaching.
We believe every student benefits from being part of a research-inspired culture and being taught by experts – you will discuss the very latest ideas in seminars and tutorials.
You will learn through practical work, problem-solving, project work, team work and research projects - key qualities for success for the rest of your degree and your future career.
Working through examples, solving problems and developing your mathematical and analytical skills are a vital part of being a scientist, so coursework forms a component of most modules.
Modules will have a reading list that might consist of chapters from textbooks and research articles from journals.
Excellent student-to-staff ratios, small group tutorials and accessible staff will mean you’re well supported throughout your degree.
In all years you will be offered personal tutoring in small groups with an academic who you will see every week.
You will be expected to undertake independent and self-motivated study as part of your degree and should expect your total workload to average about 40 hours per week during term time.
We will support you in learning to work independently and becoming a scientific thinker – these skills are not easy to acquire but we will be on-hand to guide you throughout the programme.
You will be assessed in all years through a variety of means.
These will include coursework, exams, written reports or presentations amongst others.
You must pass your first year assessment in order to progress to the second year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification and the assessment will not disadvantage students who did not study all subjects at A level.
Our aim is to teach a syllabus that you will find intellectually challenging, rewarding and stimulating.
In addition, to help you develop as a scientist so that you can make a real contribution to the exciting research taking place at the University of Exeter and to important scientific developments long after your graduation.
Many employers look for graduates with a background in a broad based multidisciplinary science degree, as it allows them to tackle problems holistically.
This course will help you to develop a wide range of key skills for employment and further study such as analytical problem solving, teamwork, and organising and communicating information.
Graduates of this degree are highly employable and have found positions working in a wide variety of related roles including laboratory-based positions, industry, law, business, management, teaching and government.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Natural Sciences but also in wider fields.
View all Natural Sciences courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/natural-sciences/msci:
MSci Natural Sciences - 2026 entry
Varied and exciting career options
Our students go on to excel in a huge variety of roles after graduating, including studying for a PhD.
I chose the Natural Sciences course because of its versatility.
I loved all sciences and couldn’t decide which to choose before uni, so this course allowed me to do my favourite aspects of them all.
Studying Natural Sciences MSci at the University of Exeter
30 credits of compulsory modules, at least 60 credits of optional modules and up to 30 credits of elective modules.
You must select at least four optional modules from the list below.
The remaining 30 credits will usually also be taken from the list below.
However, exceptionally, up to 30 credits may instead be taken from other relevant University modules, for which you have the necessary pre-requisites, and with agreement with your Personal Tuto or Natural Sciences leadership team.
Your third year includes two major projects.
The Research Project will see you working on current research being undertaken by one of the University’s research groups and will form the first part of a two-part 90 credit project, extended over years three and four.
The Group Project will involve working as a team with other third year students to complete a project of your choosing.
During your third year, you can choose to take a Semester Abroad (60 credits), instead of the Group Project (30 credits) and two of the elective 15 credit modules.
You must select 60 credits of optional and elective modules at least 30 of which must be at level 6.
You may select up to 30 credits from the Stage 2 (level 5) optional module list (see above) assuming you have not already taken the module in question or an equivalent module.
You may also take other relevant University modules for which you have the necessary pre-requisites, and with agreement with your Personal Tutor.
An indicative list of optional modules is provided below but this list is not exhaustive and you are encouraged to look at the range of modules on offer across the University.
In your final year you’ll work in pairs and continue to work on the research project you started in Year 3.
For the remaining duration of the project you’ll become a member of the research group, gaining a valuable insight into scientific research, but will also have an opportunity to make a real contribution to this research.
In addition to this project you will have the freedom to choose 60 credits worth of optional modules.
60 credits of compulsory modules and 60 credits of optional or elective modules (including NSCM002)
Elective modules may be taken from other relevant Masters level (level 7) University modules for which you have the necessary pre-requisites, and with agreement with your Personal Tutor.
You must select a total of 120 credits at Masters level (level 7).
MSci Natural Sciences with International Study
UCAS code: FGC1
Our MSci Natural Sciences degree offers you the opportunity to undertake a semester abroad, during your third year, at one of our world-class partner universities.
While abroad you’ll get the chance to study specialist material particular to your host university.
Yes, Your semester abroad counts towards 60 credits of your third year, with your mark being calculated at Exeter.
This is taken instead of the Group Project (30 credits) and two of the elective 15 credit modules.
You can apply for this programme through UCAS using the code at the top of this page.
You can also transfer to the ‘with International Study’ programme from MSci Natural Sciences during your first year.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/natural-sciences/nat-foundation:
BSc Natural Sciences with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Eligibility: UK students who fulfil the criteria as shown within our eligibility criteria below.
Our BSc Natural Sciences with Foundation Year has been designed explicitly for this purpose, to support UK students from Widening Participation backgrounds wishing to study Natural Sciences:
See below.
Applicants studying one of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas will be considered without GCE A-Level Maths and Science subjects: Engineering; Aeronautical Engineering; Electrical and Electronic Engineering; Manufacturing Engineering; Mechanical Engineering; Applied Science; Forensic and Criminal Investigation.
Applicants studying Applied Human Biology in the BTEC Diploma or BTEC Extended Certificate will be considered without the GCE A-Level Science requirement (GCE A-Level Maths is still required).
Applicants taking the BTEC Diploma or BTEC Extended Certificate in Applied Science will be considered dependent on modules taken.
(GCE A-Level Maths is still required.)
You must pass your foundation year and meet the progression criteria to progress to Year 1 of the BSc in Natural Sciences with a foundation year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.
Our courses help students to develop a wide range of key skills for employment and further study such as analytical problem solving, teamwork, and organising and communicating information.
Upon completing one of our degrees our graduates are highly employable and have found positions working in a wide variety of related roles including laboratory-based positions, industry, law, business, management, teaching and government.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/neuroscience/neuroscience:
BSc Neuroscience - 2026 entry
Streatham/St Luke's
A levels: ABB IB: 32/655 BTEC: DDM
Streatham / St Luke's
Small group learning
independent learning, teamwork, collaboration and communication
Professional Placement in the UK or abroad
open to all students
Research-inspired teaching
part of our research community from day one
Interdisciplinary learning
Neuroscience, Medical Sciences and Biosciences
No – we don’t interview for this programme.
If you receive an offer from us, you’ll be invited to an offer-holder visit day where you can find out more about the programme from our current students and meet the academics who will be teaching you.
Our BSc in Neuroscience has been carefully designed to help you understand the human body and the world around us, using the latest ideas about biological processes in nervous tissues.
You’ll be given an introduction to neuroscience in your first year, including the practical and theoretical grounding needed to appreciate contemporary neuroscience research in context.
You’ll then be able specialise your degree to your career ambitions in the following years.
If you choose the professional placement for this course, it will take place between your second and third (final) year.
Underpinning this is our commitment to research-engaged teaching.
Alongside formal teaching sessions, we encourage you to take an active part in the process of scientific discovery within in our interdisciplinary community.
Right from the start of your degree you’ll have the opportunity to do your own hands-on research.
Stage 1
The aim for the first year is to set the nervous system - the real focus of Neuroscience - in a broader biological context.
We believe that this provides a genuinely secure foundation for future work.
The centrepiece of this is the Methods in Neuroscience module, which provides you with the practical and theoretical grounding needed to begin to appreciate contemporary neuroscience research in context.
Other compulsory modules, which have all been designed to introduce additional material of particular interest to those studying neuroscience, include: Medical Cell Biology, Chemistry of Life, and Introduction to Genetics.
In terms of specific Neuroscience content, the Introduction to Neuroscience module introduces key knowledge related to the form and function of nervous systems.
It has a particular focus on how signals pass within and between nerve cells, but also considers how nervous systems develop, and the most important anatomical features of their mature form.
Finally, our Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience module begins to lay the foundations needed to understand the complex and intricate processes that make us unique as humans.
You will also be enrolled in the zero credit “Academic Support and Development” module (NEU1095) as a compulsory requirement.
During this module you will receive regular academic support from a tutor and begin to develop a personal development portfolio.
Stage 2
90 credits of compulsory modules and 30 credits of optional modules
During the second year compulsory modules are dedicated to Neuroscience.
Building on the solid foundation built in the first year, the Advance Methods in Neuroscience module enables you to take the next steps in developing your skills and knowledge to understand contemporary neuroscience research.
The Neuropharmacology module explores the role of receptors by examining how drug-induced changes in signalling lead to changes in physiology and behaviour – with both beneficial and detrimental consequences for human health.
A key part of this is exploring why some substances that were historically used as therapeutics are now used recreationally.
Alongside this, the Neural Circuits module considers how the electro-chemical interconnections between cells, which are both extensive and intensive, hold a key to understanding the operation of nervous systems.
This module examines in detail our current understanding of neural circuits, placing in a clear contemporary context many of the cell-types and basic principles which you encounter in the first year.
Thus, you study how circuits become connected, can be studied, and may dysfunction in disease.
Importantly, this stage of study also offers opportunities to complete additional optional Neuroscience or Medical Sciences modules according to your individual interests.
Students will also be enrolled in the zero credit “Academic Support and Development” module (NEU2095) as a compulsory requirement.
During this module students will receive regular academic support from a tutor and continue to develop their personal development portfolio.
Notes:
a) Students must choose at least two of, NEU2002 Brain and Behaviour, NEU2005 Cognitive Neuroscience, or NEU2004 Neuroanatomy
Stage 3
75 credits of compulsory modules and 45 credits of optional modules
The centrepiece of the final year is the Frontiers in Neuroscience module, which focuses on the neurobiology of nervous system disorders.
Each of the disorders is presented by an expert in the field, giving you a chance to engage with the very latest research; speakers show first-hand how research has answered important questions about the operation of the nervous system, and ushered in new questions.
Alongside this, you can choose three additional Neuroscience or Medical Sciences modules – providing an excellent chance to explore the aspects of Neuroscience or related areas which interest you most.
The content of the modules differs, but they are all centre on interactive and group teaching.
During your final year, you will complete your own independent research project.
This immersive experience, which accounts for roughly one third of your time in the final year, is an important opportunity for you to make your own original contribution to our neuroscientific understanding of biological phenomena.
Should you discover something, as many have before, then we will help you to present your work at conferences and through publication.
You will also be enrolled in the zero credit “Academic Support and Development” module (NEU3095) as a compulsory requirement.
During this module you will receive regular academic support from a tutor and continue to develop your personal development portfolio.
In making your module choices, please note you will need a minimum of 90 credits at stage 3 (level 6), which can comprise the following modules:
b) These modules can only be taken at stage 3 if they have not been taken at stage 2.
BSc Neuroscience with Professional Placement
UCAS code: B141
You can choose to, and we actively support and encourage you to, undertake a professional placement.
The professional placement provides you with an excellent opportunity to gain invaluable experience of working as part of a leading research team.
This gives you the chance to discover what it is like to work in a real research environment or a health intervention setting and will enhance your career prospects.
You will contribute to a medical or health-related project, and may have the opportunity to attend a national or international science conference to present your research data, or co-author a research paper.
If you choose a professional placement, it will take place after your second year of study, and your degree will take four years to complete.
Undertaking a professional placement will enhance your professionalism, independence and confidence; increase your subject knowledge and research skills; improve your problem-solving, team-working, leadership, communication and project management skills; and prepare you for working in a professional work environment.
You apply for a professional placement during your second year of study and are supported to apply for positions with guidance from our staff.
During your professional placement you are closely support by both your workplace supervisor and visiting professional placement tutor.
You can apply directly to one of these options using the UCAS codes below, or you can apply to the standard BSc Neuroscience course and transfer onto the professional placement option at the end of your first year.
Throughout the programme, you benefit from a careful blend of innovative and traditional teaching methods.
You will develop your laboratory skills in the biosciences teaching laboratory on the Streatham Campus and the new teaching lab at the St Luke’s campus, which are equipped with instruments for observational, experimental and numerical aspects of biosciences including a range of biochemical, molecular, physiological and electronic apparatus.
This course prioritises your development of the range of skills needed for scientific research.
Critical thinking forms the core of this, with a focus on helping you to communicate effectively across a range of media.
You’ll expand your numeracy and knowledge of statistical methods, with the option to specialise further in mathematics and computation.
A clear focus on these skills means that our Neuroscience course will prepare you for employment in a wide variety of careers, including:
"The course at Exeter stood out for me as I liked the idea of studying modules that explored human physiology and its relation to the nervous system.
After visiting Exeter on one of their open days, I was sure that this is where I wanted to spend my 3 years.
The size of the city is well-suited for student living and the quality of both the teaching and their research was something that inspired me.
After my degree, I am looking to study Medicine, as the experience I have gained from the Neuroscience course has furthered my interest in both science and healthcare.”
Read more from Hana
studying Neuroscience
View all Neuroscience courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/nursing/adult:
BSc Adult Nursing - 2026 entry
A-Level: BCC IB: 28/554 BTEC: DMM
*Limited to UK applicants eligible for support from the Student Loans Company
6th in the UK for Health Professions
First in the Russell Group for student satisfaction
The Academy of Nursing is 1st in the Russell Group for student satisfaction in the Teaching theme (National Student Survey 2024)
5th in the UK for Nursing and Midwifery
Top 120 in the world for Public, Environmental and Occupational Health
U.S.
News & World Report Best Global Universities 2025-2026
Graduates from this course are eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and gain employment as a registered nurse in health provider organisations such as NHS Trusts.
Yes: all shortlisted applicants will be invited to attend an interview between January and March.
The interview will be in the multiple mini interview format.
This will consist of three stations which will assess your suitability for our programme.
Where an in-person interview takes place, you’ll also be able to take a campus tour .
For virtual interviews, please visit our virtual tours .
All applications are considered on an individual basis and we’ll make offers shortly after an interview has taken place.
A place on the course will not be offered to those who do not attend an interview.
If you are successful in your interview, you will be required to complete a health questionnaire, then if you accept our offer you will be screened by our Occupational Health Department.
You will be required to have up-to-date vaccination records for relevant inoculations in line with University requirements and those of your placement providers.
We require all nursing students to be immunised against certain infectious diseases to meet health and safety standards required to work with patients.
You will need to provide evidence of two MMR jabs, and undergo tests to determine your Hepatitis B surface antigen, TB and HIV status.
Enrolled nursing students will be unable to undertake their studies without evidence of completion of the vaccination process.
We will review all significant reports of convictions, cautions and verbal warnings and decide on your suitability to enter the programme.
Studying MSci Nursing
Our BSc Adult Nursing is a three-year course leading to eligibility for registration as an Adult nurse with the Nursing & Midwifery Council (NMC).
Nurses play a vital role in healthcare.
Nurses are occupying more and more senior positions across the healthcare sector – in management, policymaking, research and education.
Nurses are also at the heart of patient care everywhere, from ultra-modern super hospitals, to caring for the vulnerable at home, to providing critical support in refugee camps or countries affected by natural disasters.
Our aim is for Exeter Nurses to be outstanding in all areas of nursing, and healthcare more widely.
We are committed to developing the future of nursing, and our vision is reflected in the structure and content of this programme.
The programme is structured around Exeter’s unique ‘seven pillars’ of nursing:
Stage 3 (Adult): 120 credits of compulsory modules
Fifty per cent of your time will be spent in clinical practice.
Placements are organised in blocks that range from seven to fourteen weeks.
The Academy of Nursing has several key NHS Trusts supporting placements:
The five main acute hospitals sites you will be going to for placements are: RDUH Exeter in Exeter, Torbay Hospital in Torquay, RDUH North Devon in Barnstaple, Somerset NHS Foundation Trust in Taunton & Yeovil, and Royal Cornwall Hospital in Truro.
You will also have a variety of placements throughout Devon, Cornwall, and Somerset.
One of the requirements for the NMC is understanding the whole patient journey so with this in mind you will also have placements in primary care, social care and independent healthcare organisations and charities to support your learning.
We use a variety of innovative placement models to support your learning throughout the programme.
During your placements there will be opportunities for you to do spoke placement within the Trust you are working in as well as spoke out to local GP practices, care homes and learning disability settings to enrich your clinical experience.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a three-week elective practice learning experience, in the UK or abroad.
The Schwab and Westheimer Trust was established to assist young refugees and asylum seekers in accessing education, especially where there are no adequate alternative sources of funding.
For more information, including eligibility criteria, please visit the Westheimer Scholarship website .
We have designed this unique programme to include a wide range of teaching, learning and assessment methods.
We use the best approaches, to create the best nurses.
You will learn through a varied and challenging programme of lectures, workshops, seminars, small group teaching and learning in both simulated and real clinical environments.
We will give you plenty of opportunity to practise your knowledge and skills, as you work closely with professionals in the Clinical Skills Resource Centre and our purpose-built simulated ward .
You will be supported by practice supervisors in your clinical practice.
You will be assessed at Exeter via Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCE), essays, case studies, examinations, and in clinical practice settings.
Clinical practice is assessed using a range of proficiencies which will be detailed in a Practice Assessment Document.
These proficiencies are prescribed by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and form the basis of discussion and assessment during each clinical practice placement.
The proficiencies and related learning activities represent the range of nursing skills that you are expected to observe, acquire and develop during each year of the programme (although we cannot assess the proficiencies while you are on elective).
Once you graduate, you'll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and thereby gain employment as a registered nurse in health provider organisations such as NHS Trusts.
A nursing degree is a passport to an interesting job and a fulfilling career.
As you gain experience, you could advance your career by specialising in an area of adult nursing, progress to more senior nursing posts, or move into education or research.
View all Nursing courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/nursing/nursingmsci:
MSci Nursing (Adult or combined Adult and Mental Health) - 2026 entry
A-Level: B BB IB: 30/555 BTEC: DDM
MSci Nursing student Jennie talks about studying for her degree and student life at Exeter.
Development of practical skills in simulation environment and in a range of care contexts
including elective placement opportunities in the UK and overseas
All shortlisted applicants will be invited to attend an interview between January and March.
Where an in-person interview takes place, you’ll also be able to take a campus tour.
For virtual interviews please visit our virtual tours .
A place on the programme will not be offered to those who do not attend an interview.
Please see the MSci Nursing Admissions Process Policy‌ for full details on our admissions selection process.
You will be required to have up to date vaccination records for relevant inoculations in line with University requirements and those of your placement providers.
Our MSci Nursing programme is a four-year course leading to eligibility for registration as an Adult nurse with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), with the option to achieve a dual registration in Adult and Mental Health nursing.
Nurses are also at the heart of patient care everywhere, from ultra-modern super hospitals, to caring for the vulnerable at home, to providing critical support in refugee camps or countries affected by the consequences of climate change.
Our aim is for Exeter Nurses to be outstanding in all areas of nursing, and health and social care more widely.
The University of Exeter is committed to developing the future of nursing, and our vision is reflected in the structure and content of our pioneering programme.
After graduation you’ll be able to start your journey anywhere as a highly professional nurse capable of leading exceptional, comprehensive, person-centred and evidence-based care in a true partnership with the people you are caring for.
The first year of your MSci is an exciting introduction to the world of modern nursing.
You will study and get hands-on experience across Our Pillars of Learning , developing the knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours that will be the foundation for the rest of your working life as a registered nurse.
Stage 3: 120 credits
a Students following Pathway A: Dual Award Adult and Mental Health Nursing, should select this module.
b Students following Pathway B: Single Award Adult Nursing, should select this module.
Stage 4: 90 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules
Note: Option module will run for nursing students only if selected by a sufficient number of students.
Please check with the programme team when selecting your options.
“The MSci Nursing course is great!
I would strongly recommend it to anyone wanting to get into nursing.
It’s a 4-year course but that extra year at Exeter gets you an integrated Masters degree.
The course is really well structured and the balance between practical and theory is brilliant.”
Yasmin
The Academy of Nursing has six key NHS Trusts supporting placements:
The five main acute hospital sites you may be placed at are:
You will also have a variety of community and mental health placements throughout Devon, Cornwall, and Somerset.
One of the requirements for the NMC is understanding the whole patient journey, so with this in mind, you will also undertake placements in primary care, social care and independent healthcare organisations and charities to support your learning.
During your main placements there will be opportunities for you to do 'spoke' placements (short placements in different medical environments) within the Trust you are working in, local GP practices, care homes or learning disability settings to enrich your clinical experience.
By the end of year one you will have had exposure to mental health and one of our NHS Trusts.
By the end of year two you will have had exposure to mental health, either primary care or social care and a community placement with one of our NHS Trusts.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a three-week elective practice learning experience in year 2, in the UK or abroad.
Placements in the third and fourth year differ depending on your chosen pathway: Single Award in Adult Nursing or Dual Award in Adult and Mental Health Nursing.
Students following the Dual Award pathway have two placements in the third and fourth years: one will be in mental health and one will be either in an acute Trust or in the Private, Voluntary, and Independent (PVI) sector.
Students following the Single Award pathway will have two placements in the third year and one placement in the fourth year: in an acute Trust, Primary Care or in the PVI sector.
For more information, including eligibility criteria, please visit the Westheimer Scholarship website.
We use the best techniques, to create the best nurses.
We will give you plenty of opportunity to practise your knowledge and skills, as you work closely with professionals in the Clinical Skills Resource Centre and our purpose built simulated ward .
You are assessed at Exeter via Objective Structured Clinical Examinations, essays, case studies, examinations and in clinical practice settings.
These proficiencies are prescribed by the NMC and form the basis of discussion and assessment during each clinical practice placement.
Overall, we are committed to giving every student the opportunity:
After you graduate, you’ll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council and thereby gain employment as a registered nurse in health provider organisations such as NHS Trusts.
As an Exeter Nurse you will be equipped for a fast-track career in nursing with rapid promotions to senior clinical, leadership, education and research roles.
Below are some of the advanced roles you may be eligible for, as suggested by our NHS Directors of Nursing partners.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy/philosophy:
BA Philosophy - 2026 entry
International students should check details of our English language requirements
If your academic qualifications or English language skills do not meet our entry requirements our INTO University of Exeter International Foundation course can help you reach the required language and academic standards.
For full and up-to-date information on applying to Exeter and entry requirements, including requirements for other types of qualification, please see the Applying section.
60 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional/elective modules
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of philosophical methods, analysis and concepts.
You will also be introduced to important analytical techniques that will be useful across a range of subjects and research tasks.
You will take 60 credits of compulsory modules and 60 credits of optional modules.
You may take up to 30 credits of these options from outside of the department.
You should take 60 credits of ‘core’ modules, listed as compulsory
You should take 30-60 credits of option modules
Up to 60 credits of module choices from available PHL2*** coded option modules.
Philosophy (up to 60 credits)
You will also take other specialist modules to create a programme of work fully reflecting your interests.
You may take 0- 30 credits in place of options from modules outside of the department.
BA Philosophy with Study Abroad
UCAS code: V501
We use a wide range of teaching and learning methods and encourage you to develop your writing and presentation skills in a supportive atmosphere:
Below are a few examples* of initial jobs undertaken by Politics and International Relations graduates.
Job title
Operations Analyst Marketing Executive Management Accountant Primary Teacher Account Manager Equity Finance Analyst Senior Associate Event Manager Project Executive
London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympics JP Morgan Department of Health HM Prison Service HSBC Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama BOC Wilton and Bain
Further study is a popular choice for a number of students following graduation from a Politics degree in Exeter.
Below are a few examples* of further study undertaken.
MA Social and Political Studies MA Political Theory MA Understanding and Securing Human Rights MA Philosophy
University of Exeter University College London University of Bristol University of London

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy/politics:
BA Philosophy and Politics - 2026 entry
Top 15 in the UK for Politics and Philosophy
14th for Politics and 9th for Philosophy in the Complete University Guide 2026
The Philosophy and Politics degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of philosophical and political theory and concepts.
Philosophy - 45 credits of core a - For Philosophy you must choose 3 of the core modules listed Politics - 30 credits of core You must take both POL1025 and POL1026
Politics: 30 credits of option modules Philosophy: 15 credits of option modules Please note that modules are subject to change and not all modules are available across all programmes, this is due to timetable, module size constraints and availability.
In the second year you will advance your grasp of philosophical and political knowledge and methods through a set of compulsory modules.
As part of your 120 credits for the year, you must do the following: Philosophy - at least 45 credits of core b - Choose 3 of the core Philosophy modules listed Politics - 15 credits of core POL2059 must be taken
Politics: 45 credits of option modules Philosophy: 15 credits of option modules Please note that modules are subject to change and not all modules are available across all programmes, this is due to timetable, module size constraints and availability.
If you choose a study abroad or employment experience option, this will take place in your third year.
Philosophy or Politics Dissertation c - As part of your 120 credits for the final year, you must choose one of the two dissertation modules.
Philosophy - Choose 30 credits of options if PHL3040 chosen.
Choose 60 credits of options if POL3040 chosen Politics - Choose 30 credits of options if POL3040 chosen.
Choose 60 credits of options if PHL3040 chosen
BA Philosophy and Politics with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VL5F
BA Philosophy and Politics with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VL7F
BA Philosophy and Politics with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VL6F
As a Philosophy and Politics graduate you will develop a range of professional, academic and personal skills that are good preparation for a number of careers including in the media, public sector, legal profession, business and management.
The broad range of transferable skills gained on a Philosophy and Politics degree enable graduates to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy/sociology:
BA Philosophy and Sociology - 2026 entry
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of philosophical and sociological theory and concepts.
Sociology You must take the 60 credits of core stage 1 modules Philosophy a - You must take 3 of the 5 core stage 1 modules listed below
Philosophy Choose one 15 credit PHL1xxx option module
60 credits of compulsory modules (30 credits of Philosophy and 30 credits of Sociology), 30 credits of optional modules (30 credits Philosophy, 30 credits Sociology).
In the second year you will advance your grasp of philosophical and sociological knowledge and methods through a set of compulsory modules.
Philosophy b - You must choose 2 modules from the list below Sociology c - You must choose at least 30 credits of core modules from the list below
Philosophy Choose one 30 credit PHL2xxx option module Sociology Choose up to 30 credits of SOC2xxx option modules or ANT2xxx modules
Philosophy or Sociology Dissertation d - Students must choose one of the two dissertation modules
If you choose a Philosophy dissertation, you choose a further 30 credits of Philosophy PHL3xxx option modules, and 60 credits of Sociology or Anthropology option modules.
If you choose a Sociology dissertation, you choose a further 30 credits of Sociology SOC3xxx or ANT3xxx option modules, and 60 credits of Philosophy option modules.
BA Philosophy and Sociology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VL5H
BA Philosophy and Sociology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VL5J
BA Philosophy and Sociology with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VL6H
Our four-year ‘with Employment Experience Abroad’ degree allows you to spend your third year abroad, carrying out a graduate-level work placement or placements as part of your degree.
By carrying out a graduate-level work placement or placements abroad you can demonstrate to employers your adaptability, cultural awareness, independence and resourcefulness and, depending on where you stay, you may also have gained a working knowledge of another language.
As a Philosophy and Sociology graduate you will develop a range of professional, academic and personal skills that are good preparation for a number of careers including in the media, public sector, legal profession, business and management.
The broad range of transferable skills gained on a Philosophy and Sociology degree enable graduates to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/philosophy/religion:
BA Philosophy, Religion and Ethics - 2026 entry
A - Three of the five 15 credit compulsory PHL1XXX modules below must be chosen You can choose one 15 credit PHL1XXX option module (this can include any of the remaining compulsory PHL1XXX modules not initially chosen)
Theology
B - THE1120 What is Religion?
and THE1125 Religion, Philosophy and Ethics must be taken.
You may then choose one 15 credit option module.
You can choose one 15 credit Philosophy option module, and one 15 credit Theology option module C - THE1070 and THE1072 run on alternate years
45 credits of elective compulsory modules, 75 credits of optional modules
D - Three of the six 15 credit elective compulsory modules must be chosen.
There are no compulsory modules for Theology and Religion in stage 2.
You can choose one 15 credit Philosophy option module (including any of the elective core above not initially chosen), and 60 credits of Theology and Religion option modules.
Placement Year (if taken)
Compulsory 120 credit placement module is taken
30 credits of compulsory modules and 90 credits of optional modules
E - Either PHL3040 Philosophy Dissertation or THE3030 Theology and Religion Dissertation must be chosen
If PHL3040 is chosen, 30 credits of PHL3XXX options / 60 credits of THE3XXX options are taken
If THE3030 is chosen, 30 credits of THE3XXX options / 60 credits of PHL3XXX options are taken
BA Philosophy, Religion and Ethics with Study Abroad
UCAS code: VV5U
BA Philosophy, Religion and Ethics with Employment Experience
UCAS code: VV5V
BA Philosophy, Religion and Ethics with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: VV5W
As a Philosophy, Religion and Ethics graduate you will develop a range of professional, academic and personal skills that are good preparation for a number of careers including in the media, public sector, legal profession, business and management.
The broad range of transferable skills gained on a Philosophy, Religion and Ethics degree enable graduates to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/ppe:
BA Politics, Philosophy and Economics - 2026 entry
The BA Politics, Philosophy and Economics degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
Within the programme as a whole a minimum of 90 credits and a maximum of 150 credits should come from each discipline.
At least 15 credits of stage 3 modules must be from each discipline.
Your core modules will provide you with an introduction to all three disciplines and will specifically explore issues relating to power and democracy, the philosophy of morality, philosophical analysis and economic principles.
105 credits of compulsory modules made up of:
30 credits of compulsory Politics modules, including 1 x 15 credit module from Stage 1 Politics (POL1xxx) options.
30 credits of compulsory Philosophy modules, chosen from the 4 x 15 credit core modules (PHL1xxx) listed here.
45 credits of compulsory Economics modules made up of BEE1029 (30 credits) and EITHER BEE1024 for holders of A-level maths or equivalent qualification OR BEE1035 for those without A-Level Maths or equivalent.
15 credit option module from either:
Politics modules (POL1xxx), Philosophy modules (PHL1xxx), or Economics modules (BEE1xxx)
You’ll explore how your three disciplines overlap in fields such as political philosophy (eg, considering topics such as liberty, justice, rights and citizenship), economic policy and the economics of politics.
You’ll compare political systems and reflect on the nature of society, considering philosophical questions relating to inequality and power.
90 credits of compulsory modules made up of:
30 credits of Politics modules.
a - 30 credits of Philosophy modules, selected from Stage 2 Philosophy compulsory modules list (2 x 15 credit modules).
30 credits of Economics modules.
30 credits from either Stage 2:
Politics modules (POL2xxx), Philosophy modules (PHL2xxx), or Economics modules (BEE2xxx)
30 credits of compulsory modules.
b - You must take POL3040 or BEE3068 or PHL3040 or BUS3001.
Please note that BEE3068 has pre-requisites: BEE1038 or BEE2041 or BEE2032 (or one of the co-requisites: BEE3066 or BEE3071).
90 credits from either:
Politics modules (POL3xxx), Philosophy modules (PHL3xxx), Economics modules (BEE3xxx)
At least 30 credits of stage 3 modules must be taken from each discipline.
This is inclusive of the dissertation modules.
BA Politics, Philosophy and Economics with Study Abroad
UCAS code:  L0V1
BA Politics, Philosophy and Economics with Employment Experience
UCAS code: L0V3
BA Politics, Philosophy and Economics with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: L0V4
I am currently on my work abroad placement in Brussels working for a Think Tank in European economic policy called Bruegel.
It’s been amazing so far.
Being immersed in a different culture and meeting new people with completely different experiences of life has been incredible.
Working for a think tank has also immeasurably improved my research and academic skills – I regularly get to attend research meetings with scholars at the top of their field.
Read more from Saffron
Saffron
We use a range of assessment methods including many designed to reflect the skills required by employers:
As a Politics, Philosophy and Economics graduate you will have an understanding of the philosophical, political and economic foundations of order and justice as well as the ability to interrogate the meaning and practice of the market economy on a global scale.
Throughout your studies you will develop a range of professional, academic and personal skills that are highly sought after by employers including:
A degree in Politics, Philosophy and Economics is highly respected by employers and PPE graduates can go on to work in a wide variety of fields, including:
The flexible nature of a Politics, Philosophy and Economics degree means that you could choose to specialise in several areas at postgraduate level such as:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/physicsbsc:
BSc Physics - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAA-ABB IB: 36/666 – 32/655 BTEC: DDD-DDM
A-Level: ABB-ABC IB: 32/655-28/554 BTEC: DDM-DMM
A level: AAA-ABB IB: 36/666 – 32/655 BTEC: DDD-DDM
with Professional Placement
Top 10 in the UK for Physics and Astronomy
7th in the Guardian University Guide 2025
Extensive facilities in our dedicated building including advanced research and teaching labs, observatory and computer labs
We are passionate about training new physicists and believe that is done best via a supportive and inclusive student-staff environment
94% of graduates in or due to start employment/further study 15 months after graduation
Based on full-time, first degree, UK-domiciled graduates, HESA Graduate Outcomes survey 2020/21
Professional Placement/Study Abroad (if taken)
If you choose the 'with Professional Placement' or 'with Study Abroad' variant of this degree, your placement will take place in your third year.
See the course variants for further information.
BSc Physics with Study Abroad
UCAS code: F313
We strongly encourage you to consider spending a year studying abroad as part of your degree, taking place in your third year.
We have agreements with universities across the globe, giving you a huge range of amazing and exciting locations to choose between.
Your degree takes an extra year to complete, and your time abroad is recognised in your degree title, which will include the words ‘with Study Abroad’ for future employers to see.
Yes, during your time abroad you’ll cover 120 credits, the same as you would if you were studying in Exeter.
Once at the University of Exeter, progression to the Study Abroad year is dependent upon successful completion of your year 1 studies, with an average mark of at least 60%.
If you are not sure about studying abroad when you apply for your degree, it is possible to apply to the Study Abroad version of this programme in term 1 of your second year.
If you are successfully allocated a placement, you will then transfer onto the Study Abroad variant of the programme.
If you spend a full academic year studying abroad, you will pay a reduced fee of approximately 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
Our Study Abroad degrees are specifically structured to retain full professional accreditation.
This is achieved by assessing the work you complete while abroad and by taking a credit-rated language module appropriate to your chosen study destination prior to travelling.
Assessment of all overseas modules takes place in English but some host destinations occasionally require presentations and a synopsis of work in their language, so a good knowledge of that language is essential.
Once registered as studying with your overseas host university you will receive primary support from them with full access to the facilities they provide to all students.
You are required to maintain contact with the overseas coordinator and Student Services at Exeter through your Exeter email account and of course you have continuing access to all our facilities via your MyExeter account.
The marks awarded to you by your host institution are subject to a moderation process at Exeter that ensures uniformity and fairness.
BSc Physics with Professional Placement
UCAS code: F311
Experience of working in your chosen field is a real advantage when entering the graduate job market.
A full year’s work placement, undertaken as part of your course, taken in your third year.
Your degree takes an extra year to complete, and the words ‘with Professional Placement’ appear in your degree title for future employers to see.
The placement takes place in your third year and usually lasts at least nine months.
You can apply for this programme through UCAS using the code at the top of this page, or transfer onto this option at the end of your first year in BSc Physics.
Learning and teaching at Exeter is undertaken in a variety of ways, ranging from classic style lecturing, weekly problem-solving classes, computing practical sessions, and laboratory sessions
You will be fully supported during your journey as a student in a variety of ways, in a friendly and relaxed environment.
You will have weekly skills development sessions where you will have the chance to develop the transversal skills needed for your academic, personal and professional development.
They will occur in a variety of settings, ranging from full lectures to small group seminars.
You will also have access to personal academic and pastoral mentoring, fully embedded within the structure of our department.
Not only do we teach you about our pioneering research, we teach you how to undertake the research yourself.
Experimental skills are acquired in the laboratories and astronomical observatory, and here you are introduced to a wide range of apparatus and techniques.
Training in theoretical techniques is provided by our methods and computational modules.
By the time you reach the start of your extended project work, you will have received the necessary preparation to undertake it with confidence in either experimental or theoretical topics, and these projects are tackled with great enthusiasm and energy.
Assessment in Exeter is performed via a combination of exams and continuous assessments, including problem sets, reports, multimedia presentations, posters and vivas.
You will be able to find a variety of modules with different approaches, ranging from 100% exam-based ones to 100% coursework ones.
Employability skills are an integral part of the physics curriculum.
The flexibility and adaptability of a well-trained physicist is appreciated by employers: they acknowledge the benefits of excellent problem solving skills, an educated scientific intuition, and the confidence to be able to grasp new concepts quickly.
In addition, the purpose of the extended project work in both the BSc and MPhys programmes is for you to develop research skills.
You will learn to present and scientifically defend your work and ideas in a variety of ways.
The experience and skills developed not only form a valuable basis for a research career, but are also known to be highly valued by employers.
The most academically able graduates are normally strongly encouraged to apply for a fully-funded PhD studentship in physics or astrophysics.
Visit the Physics postgraduate research degrees page for details.
The largest proportion of our graduates enter science-based industries in positions involving research and development, production and management.
Other careers include scientific work in government establishments (e.g., QinetiQ or Harwell Laboratories), hospital physics in the NHS, and technical management in broadcasting and the communications sector.
Some work in high-tech start-up companies.
The broad-based skills acquired during your degree will give you an excellent grounding for a wide variety of careers, not only those related to Physics but also in wider fields.
View all Physics and Astronomy courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/physicsmphys:
MPhys Physics - 2026 entry
Discover undergraduate Physics at the University of Exeter.
After I visited the department I instantly knew I want to study at Exeter.
Physics has crafted me into a brilliant problem solver, every challenge I approach in life, I approach critically and thoroughly to seek reason behind my situation.
My year abroad in Sydney allowed me to interact with people from across the world and gave me insight into international work life.
Read more from Chadsley
Chadsley
Studied MPhys Physics with Australian Study at the University of Exeter
Professional placement/study abroad (if taken)
If you choose the ‘with Professional Placement’ or 'with Study Abroad' variant of this degree, your placement will take place in your third year.
You will then take the modules listed below in your fourth and fifth years of study.
Take a look at the course variants for further information.
Final years
MPhys Physics with Study Abroad
UCAS code: F312
Destinations may vary and we encourage you to view our study abroad webpages for up-to-date information.
If you are not sure about studying abroad when you apply for your degree, it is possible to apply to the Study Abroad version of this course in term 1 of your second year.
MPhys Physics with Professional Placement
UCAS code: F310
The fee for 2021/22 is £1,850 (or 20 per cent of the maximum fee for that year).
Preparation and support

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/physics-foundation:
BSc Physics with Foundation Year - 2026 entry
Eligibility: UK ( Home Fee ) students who fulfil our eligibility criteria as shown below.
In support of the University’s Access and Participation Plan this course is only open to UK domiciled students who meet our contextual offer eligibility criteria and who may not have met the entry requirements for first year entry.
Please note: As part of our ongoing commitment towards improving the student experience at Exeter, we are introducing a new foundation level year to our Mathematics degrees from September 2022.
The foundation course covers the core maths skills needed to progress onto our Year 1 of the BSc Physics with Foundation Year programme, or have the opportunity to transfer to Year 1 of another programme with a foundation year provided you meet the entry requirements for that programme.
You must pass your foundation year and meet the progression criteria to progress to Year 1 of the BSc in Physics with a foundation year, but the results do not count towards your degree classification.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/astrobsc:
BSc Physics with Astrophysics - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAA-ABB IB: 36/666-32/655 BTEC: DDD-DDM
BSc Physics with Astrophysics, with Study Abroad
You can apply directly to this programme through UCAS (the code will be available later this summer).
Once registered as studying with your overseas host university you will receive primary support from them, with full access to the facilities they provide to all students.
You are required to maintain contact with the overseas coordinator and Student Services at Exeter through your Exeter email account, and of course you have continuing access to all our facilities.
BSc Physics with Astrophysics, with Professional Placement
You can either apply for the 'with Professional Placement' programme directly through UCAS, or apply for BSc Physics with Astrophysics and transfer onto this option during your first year at Exeter (subject to your academic performance).
You will have weekly skills development sessions where you will have the chance to develop the transversal skills needed for you academic, personal and professional development.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/astromphys:
MPhys Physics with Astrophysics - 2026 entry
MPhys Physics with Astrophysics, with Study Abroad
MPhys Physics with Astrophysics, with Professional Placement
You can either apply for the 'with Professional Placement' programme directly through UCAS, or apply for MPhys Physics with Astrophysics and transfer onto this option during your first year at Exeter (subject to your academic performance).
Understanding the Universe from the top academics was extremely appealing.
I attended an Open Day and fell in love with the campus.
The warm and welcoming atmosphere made me feel I could thrive here.
The student community and array of societies has made my time in Exeter fantastic.
You feel part of the student body and I have met some amazing people.
The programming and computational modules have given me IT skills and experimental modules have developed my analytical skills which have helped me secure a graduate data analytics job for a media company in London.
Read more from David
David
Studying MSc Physics and Astrophysics at the University of Exeter

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/biophysics:
BSc Physics with Biophysics - 2026 entry
Our programme is carefully designed around a skills development roadmap that starts on day one, and continues across your whole degree.
Your first year introduces you to the physics of everyday life and experimental physics as well as supporting you to advance your mathematical and computational data analysis skills.
Alongside your physics studies, we start preparing you for your future career as a physicist by developing your professional skills.
As you continue through years 2 and 3, you will further develop your transversal and personal skills as a future physicist through our dedicated skills development programme, and you will start your journey into more complex topics of contemporary physics.
The programme puts special emphasis on modern biophysical applications like, for example, the study of the physics of complex living systems, advanced imaging, or the physics of cells and tissues.
Since Physics is an inherently collaborative discipline, the final year of the course also involves substantial open-ended project work.
These extended biophysics research projects will give you the opportunity to undertake team-based work, tackling real-world problems, and develop your ability to communicate the results of complex investigations to a variety of audiences in different ways.
BSc Physics with Biophysics, with Study Abroad
BSc Physics with Biophysics, with Professional Placement
You can either apply for the 'with Professional Placement' programme directly through UCAS, or apply for BSc Physics with Biophysics and transfer onto this option during your first year at Exeter (subject to your academic performance).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/biophysicsmphys:
MPhys Physics with Biophysics - 2026 entry
Our programme is carefully designed around a skills development roadmap, that starts on day one, and continues across your whole degree.
As you continue through the rest of the programme, you will further develop your transversal and personal skills as a future physicist through our dedicated skills development programme.
You will explore a variety of advanced biophysics topics ranging from Physics of complex living systems, advanced imaging techniques, physics of cells and tissues, or physical methods in biology and medicine.
We will expose you to more complex topics of contemporary physics, like electromagnetism, classical field theory, quantum mechanics or solid state physics.
In addition to that, you will have the chance to develop your masters project over the last two years of your degree.
You will work on a real-work collaborative, open-ended biophysics research project, gaining first-hand experience of how modern research works and developing your skills as a professional researcher.
MPhys Physics with Biophysics, with Study Abroad
MPhys Physics with Biophysics, with Professional Placement
You can either apply for the 'with Professional Placement' programme directly through UCAS, or apply for MPhys Physics with Biophysics and transfer onto this option during your first year at Exeter (subject to your academic performance).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/quantum:
BSc Physics with Quantum Technology - 2026 entry
As you continue through year 2 you will continue to develop your understanding of quantum mechanics, thermodynamics, relativity and solid-state physics.
Since Physics is an inherently collaborative discipline, the final year of the programme also involves substantial open-ended project work.
These extended research projects give you the opportunity to undertake team-based work tackling real-world problems, and to develop your ability to communicate the results of complex investigations to a variety of audiences in different ways.
BSc Physics with Quantum Technology, with Study Abroad
BSc Physics with Quantum Technology, with Professional Placement
You can either apply for the 'with Professional Placement' programme directly through UCAS, or apply for BSc Physics with Quantum Technology and transfer onto this option during your first year at Exeter (subject to your academic performance).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/quantummphys:
MPhys Physics with Quantum Technology - 2026 entry
You will have the chance to explore a variety of advanced applications of quantum mechanics, including an introduction to quantum computing, high energy physics, or advanced applications of solid-state physics
You will explore more complex topics of contemporary physics, like electromagnetism, classical field theory, quantum mechanics or solid-state physics.
During the last two years of your degree, you will have the chance to develop your masters project.
You will work on a real-work collaborative, open-ended applied quantum mechanics research project, gaining first-hand experience of how modern research works and developing your skills as a professional researcher.
MPhys Physics with Quantum Technology, with Study Abroad
MPhys Physics with Quantum Technology, with Professional Placement
You can either apply for the 'with Professional Placement' programme directly through UCAS, or apply for MPhys Physics with Quantum Technology and transfer onto this option during your first year at Exeter (subject to your academic performance).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/theoretical:
BSc Theoretical Physics - 2026 entry
As you continue through year 2 you will continue to develop your understanding of classical physics, quantum mechanics, thermodynamics, relativity, solid-state physics, and many other aspects of modern Physics.
These theoretical or experimental projects will give you the opportunity to undertake team-based work tackling real-world problems and to develop your ability to communicate the results of complex investigations to a variety of audiences in different ways.
BSc Theoretical Physics with Study Abroad
BSc Theoretical Physics with Professional Placement
You can either apply for the 'with Professional Placement' programme directly through UCAS, or apply for BSc Theoretical Physics and transfer onto this option during your first year at Exeter (subject to your academic performance).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/physics/theoreticalmphys:
MPhys Theoretical Physics - 2026 entry
Since Physics is an inherently collaborative discipline, in stages 3 and 4 of the course you can specialise on a topic related to one of the department’s theoretical physics research areas.
You will work on a real-world collaborative, open-ended theoretical physics research project.
Gain first-hand experience of how modern research works and develop your skills as a professional researcher.
MPhys Theoretical Physics with Study Abroad
MPhys Theoretical Physics with Professional Placement
You can either apply for the 'with Professional Placement' programme directly through UCAS, or apply for MPhys Theoretical Physics and transfer onto this option during your first year at Exeter (subject to your academic performance).

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/politics:
BA Politics - 2026 entry
60 credits of optional modules from all other POL1* modules
60 credits of optional modules from all other POL2* modules
Stage 3: 60 credits of compulsory Dissertation and supporting module, 60 credits of optional modules
60 credits of optional modules from all other POL3* modules
BA Politics with Study Abroad
UCAS code: L240
BA Politics with Employment Experience
UCAS code: L298
As a Politics graduate your understanding of complex political and cultural issues, often in continually changing environments, can be relevant to careers within the private, public and third sectors.
Throughout your studies you will develop a range of professional, academic and personal skills including:
Many of our students participate in The Exeter Award and Exeter Leaders Award .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/cornwallir:
BA Global Politics (Cornwall) - 2026 entry
Full-time undergraduates need to take 120 credits each year and choose from modules worth 15 or 30 credits, with students having more choice and more opportunity to study in-depth the topics that interest them most in Years 2 and 3.
You will also have the option to take up to 30 credits from another department within the University subject to approval.
Select a further 60 credits of optional modules, at least 30 credits of which must be taken from stage 1 Politics options:
Select a further 75 credits of optional modules, at least 45 credits of which must be taken from stage 2 Politics options:
Select a further 90 credits of optional modules, at least 30 credits of which must be taken from stage 3 Politics options:
BA Global Politics with Study Abroad
UCAS code: L253
If you were previously eligible, you will continue to receive a maintenance loan whilst on your year of work placements.
We’ll teach you about political systems and theories and apply these to world events and the major issues setting the modern political agenda, giving you real world skills valued by employers..
Organisations

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/intrelations:
BA International Relations - 2026 entry
The BA (Hons) International Relations degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
Depending on your programme you can also take up to 30 credits each year in another subject, for instance a language or business module, to develop career-related skills or just widen your intellectual horizons.
60 credits from all other POL1* modules.
60 credits from all other POL2* modules.
Students will spend the third year of their studies in a partner university.
Students will spend the third year of their studies on a work placement.
60 credits from all other POL3* modules.
BA International Relations with Study Abroad
UCAS code: L251
BA International Relations with Employment Experience
UCAS code: L257
(* This information has been taken from the Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) Surveys 14/15, 15/16, and 16/17.
)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/politicsir:
BSc Politics and International Relations - 2026 entry
The BSc Politics and International Relations degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
Stage 1: 75 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules.
Stage 2:  30 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional modules.
90 credits from list of all POL2* modules
Stage 3:
Students will spend the 3rd year of their studies in a partner University.
The year abroad comprises 120 credits and assessment is based on the credits gained at the partner institution abroad.
Stage 3:  45 credits of compulsory modules, 75 credits of optional modules
[a] You must take at least one of either POL3101 or POL3102, but you do not have to take both.
75 credits from list of all POL3* modules
BSc Politics and International Relations with Study Abroad
UCAS code: L293
BSc Politics and International Relations with Employment Experience

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/cornwallpolir:
BA Politics and International Relations (Cornwall) - 2026 entry
Select a further 60 credits of optional modules from the HASS Penryn modules here (at least 45 credits must be Stage 1 Politics modules (POC1xxx)
Select a further 75 credits of optional modules (of which at least 45 credits must be Stage 2 Politics modules)
In stage three (Level 6) you will carry out a piece of independent research and write a dissertation under the supervision of a member of staff from Politics.
You will also choose from a number of optional 15 and 30 credit Level 6 modules (coded ‘POC3’) that are taught in weekly two hour seminars, or involve a field course.
You must take a minimum of 90 credits and a maximum of 120 credits from the POC3 programme.
A further 30 credits of elective modules may be taken subject to you having the correct pre-requisites and the course convenor’s consent.
Select a further 90 credits of optional modules (of which at least 60 credits must be Stage 3 Politics modules):
BA Politics and International Relations with Study Abroad
UCAS code: L925
The help and advice that I have received from my lecturers during my time at Penryn has been exceptional.
In particular, my tutor was of immense help in advising me on how to cope with my deadlines and which career paths to consider.
The fact that the department is of a limited size also means that you get to establish a personal relationship with your lecturers, and you are not treated like another face in the crowd.
BA Politics and International Relations with Study Abroad, Penryn

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/politics/sociology:
BA Politics and Sociology - 2026 entry
A-Level: AAB-ABB IB: 34/665-32/655 BTEC: DDD
A-Level: BBB-BBC IB: 30/555-28/544 BTEC: DDM
The BA Politics and Sociology degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
You will take half your credits in Politics and the remaining credits in Sociology.
90 credits of compulsory modules and 30 credits of options.
You will do 60 credits of compulsory modules in sociology, choose 30 credits of politics modules from a list of 4 compulsory modules and choose 30 credits of politics optional modules.
a - please pick 2 of these 4 POL modules
Politics (30 optional credits)
60 credits of core modules and 60 credits of optional modules.
You will do 30 credits  compulsory modules from Level 2 of the Sociology Programme
AND
30 credits of compulsory modules from the Level 2 Politics Programme
b - please pick 2 of these 3 POL modules
Students to choose 30 credits of SOC2xxx Sociology modules or ANT2xxx Anthropology modules AND Students to choose 30 credits of POL2xxx Politics modules
Find out more about Study Abroad
Students spend this stage in a partner University on an exchange or other approved programme of study.
Assessment is normally based on the credits gained at the partner institution
Students to choose 60 credits of SOC3xxx Sociology modules or ANT3xxx Anthropology modules
Students to choose 60 credits of POL3xxx Politics modules
BA Politics and Sociology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: LL23
As a Politics and Sociology graduate your understanding of complex political and cultural issues, often in continually changing environments, can be relevant to careers within the private, public and third sectors.
The broad range of transferable skills gained on a Politics and Sociology degree enable graduates to pursue further study or employment in a wide range of careers including:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/psychology/msciapppsy:
MSci Applied Psychology (Clinical) - 2026 entry
Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0) 1392 725818
Top 150 in the world for Psychology
QS World University Rankings 2025 and U.S.
Top 10 in the UK for Psychology
9th in the Complete University Guide 2026 and joint 9th in the Guardian University Guide 2025
Unique partnership with the NHS for clinical training placements
Including access to the high-profile NHS Treatment Centre
Specialist research laboratories, clinical psychology suites, and audiovisual facilities
I really enjoy the content of the lectures and seminars on the programme, and the amount of support we are given by the academics and Student Services.
This helped me achieve a first-class honours at the end of my second year.
My experience at the University of Exeter so far has been really fun.
I get involved in student life as much as possible.
There are always new opportunities available and Exeter is in a lovely location close to green spaces and the ocean.
I would advise a fellow student considering the University of Exeter to apply for something they are passionate about, and get involved as much as possible with university life.
For example, I am the Vice president of the Vegetarian and Vegan Society and a member of the Badminton, Bulgarian and Body Societies too!
Once I graduate I will get a job as a Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner and consider further study.
Read more from Marie
Marie
MSci Applied Psychology (Clinical)
This course is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and the British Association of Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies (BABCP).
BPS accreditation confers eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership, provided the minimum standard of a Lower Second Class Honours is achieved.
This is the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
*Accepted science subjects: Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences (Double Award only), Marine Science; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths; Nutrition and Food Science; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Sport Science; Statistics.
Yes - we meet all shortlisted applicants before making an offer.
Shortlisted applicants will be invited to attend an interview which will include an individual interview encompassing an assessment of your communication skills and other personal qualities.
You will undertake a clinical placement within an NHS or other IAPT service setting in the final year of this programme.
Given the exposure to patients, offers will be conditional upon successful completion of a self-disclosure form and satisfying full health assessments.
Your first- and second -year modules will provide you with an appreciation of the development of psychology, including a focus on applying psychology to clinical problems, and will introduce you to the concept of evidence-based practice.
You will also develop a clinical understanding of individual differences and psychopathology, and an appreciation of biological psychology, including the biological basis of behaviour and mental health.
In your third and fourth years you will undertake a clinical research project in the Mood Disorders Centre and a placement which will allow you to put your knowledge into practice.
The Clinical Placement gives you the opportunity to work with a caseload of patients delivering low-intensity psychological interventions in a clinical setting, to build up clinical hours towards becoming a qualified Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner (PWP) after you graduate.
Completing the course enables you to apply for qualified PWP positions at NHS Band 4/5.
Please note: due to the clinical nature of this course, the final year is longer than the standard university terms.
The end date of your final year of study will be 31 August.
These modules are shared with the BSc Psychology programme and provide you with a broad introduction to research methods, statistics, social, cognitive, biological and developmental psychology.
a The written Statistics examination component of PSY1205 must also be passed at 40%.
90 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules (in stage 2 you must take one practical module per term.
You are required to take either one social or one cognitive practical.
You cannot take two cognitive practicals, two animal behaviour practicals or more than one social practical.)
The emphasis in your third year is on clinical research and practice.
You will undertake a clinical research project within the Mood Disorders Centre where you will see leading research in action.
Your project will be supported by staff recognised internationally for their excellence in mood disorders research which seeks to translate research into clinical treatments.
b You must choose three 15-credit seminar modules in the series starting PSY3410.
Seminars are arranged into three groups: Group 1, Group 2, and Group 3.
The groupings may vary slightly from one year to the next and so prospective students should contact Psychology before making any firm decisions.
You must take one seminar from each group and the three seminars cannot all be taken in the same term.
The fourth (PWP) year of the programme provides a thorough grounding in the theory, evidence base and clinical practice of low intensity psychological therapy for anxiety and depression.
You will undertake your clinical internship in this year.
A patient-centred approach develops your competencies in core patient-centred interviewing and assessment skills, case management, and delivering a range of low-intensity interventions including behavioural activation, exposure, cognitive restructuring, sleep management, problem solving alongside support for medication taking.
We liaise with you throughout the placement to ensure you are appropriately supported and maximise your learning opportunities.
You are not expected to set up the clinical placement; this will be organised by the department using established contacts.
c PYCM141, PYCM096, PYCM103 and PYCM142 are non-condonable compulsory stage 4 modules that must be passed to gain registration as a Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner with the British Psychological Society.
Additionally, each individual component of PYCM141, PYCM096, PYCM103 and PYCM142 must be passed: the academic assignments must be passed at 50%; the pass/fail clinical competency assessments must be passed at 50% in line with the competency rating scale used in the national curriculum.
In line with the national curriculum these modules have a 100% attendance requirement.
Should your attendance fall below that level you will be contacted and an action plan put into place.
Should your attendance fall below 80% on any individual module specified above, you will not be able to pass the module and you will be required to repeat the module or at your request, you may be awarded a BSc (Hons) Psychology degree.
In the final year of the programme you will undertake a clinical research placement which will allow you to put your knowledge into practice.
As a student of the programme you will benefit from being part of a professional, research-led culture and environment, learning from experts in the field.
The placement provides you with the opportunity to further your experience through internships in a range of clinical settings, learning with professionals who specialise in delivering treatments for depression and anxiety.
During this module you will work alongside Psychological Wellbeing Practitioners within a local NHS community or voluntary sector mental health service provider and apply the clinical skills you have developed during your programme.
Clinical and case management supervision will be provided to help enhance the skills you have learnt.
Not only is it an undergraduate Master’s degree, but it also incorporates work placements and allows me to get professional accreditation as a PWP.
While there are other universities that offer similar courses, none in my opinion were as welcoming or friendly as Exeter, nor based on such a beautiful campus.
The aspect I enjoy most about the programme is that I’m in control of my own education.
With a range of resources open to me and engaging lecturers, I can strike the balance of independent study and being taught.
Studying MSci Applied Psychology (Clinical)
You will be taught through a range of methods including:
All learning is supported by an e-learning hub.
Contact hours vary between a minimum of 12 hours per week on the more academic modules, to a maximum of 35 hours per week on the competency-based modules.
Clinical competency modules tend to have high contact hours to ensure that the relevant skills can be learnt through role play and modelling under the direction of the teaching staff.
In addition, the Clinical Practice Placement entails high levels of contact time and study hours.
You will be taught by expert research- and clinically-active staff who are undertaking relevant research of national and international quality; this feeds directly into the programme ensuring teaching is up to date.
You will benefit from:
During your first year you will develop a Personal and Professional Development (PPD) portfolio which will be maintained throughout your degree with support from your personal tutor.
Upon graduation, this portfolio will demonstrate your academic and clinical development and will be helpful in increasing your employability.
It will also support your continued professional development, as well as your application for accreditation as a Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner (PWP).
You will be assessed in a number of ways including:
Assessment methods will vary depending on your choice of optional module; check individual module descriptions for details.
You must pass your first year assessment in order to progress to the second year, but these results won’t count towards your degree classification.
The assessments in the second, third and final years all contribute to your final degree classification.
Throughout your degree programme you will be supported by a Personal Tutor with whom you will meet regularly.
Your Personal Tutor is there to help with any academic or personal problems that you may have.
Other members of teaching staff either maintain an open-door policy or have regular office hours during which you can consult them.
Our specialist facilities include:
The course opened up so many opportunities for me - I worked as a PWP, a Senior PWP managing a small team, and am now completing my IAPT High Intensity CBT training.
I could never have developed my career so quickly without doing this course.
MSc Applied Psychology (Clinical)
Our MSci Applied Psychology (Clinical) programme provides the basic training requirements towards employment as a Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner (PWP).
This is a dual-accredited programme, so upon graduation students can apply for registration with the British Psychological Society or British Association of Behavioural Cognitive Psychotherapies .
As well as providing a platform for becoming a PWP, the programme will prepare you for a wide variety of careers.
The programme will develop both your subject-specific and clinical competencies, and also your skills in communication, critical thinking and problem solving, data analysis and manipulation, teamwork, organisation, project management and independent learning.
Psychology students are able to access a huge range of opportunities when considering their future career options.
A range of employability sessions are put on for our students such as: career talks with visiting alumni and employers from a range of backgrounds, career conversation events with key employers, an annual ‘Your Future in Psychology’ event and a ‘Careers in Healthcare’ event hosted by diverse organisations.
Support is provided to access high-quality work placements through an optional Career Development module.
Below are a few examples of initial jobs undertaken by graduates from our Psychology undergraduate programmes*.
Further study is a popular choice for a number of students following graduation from a Psychology undergraduate degree.
*This information has been taken from aggregating the responses from full-time, first degree, UK domiciled students who completed 2017/18 and 2018/19 Graduate Outcomes surveys.
View all Psychology courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/psychology/psychbsc:
BSc Psychology - 2026 entry
Placement: A-Level: AAB IB: 34/665 BTEC: DDD
with Data Science
10th (joint) in the UK for Psychology graduate prospects
I love the variety this course has to offer.
My favourite module in third year was the Psychology of Gender, which I found really interesting and completely different to anything I had done before.
The course provides an excellent grounding in many aspects of psychology and in the third year particularly there is lots of flexibility around modules, which allowed me to really tailor the degree to my interests.
The highlight of the course has been the opportunity to conduct my own research through the dissertation.
Proposing my own research question, finding a way to test this and analysing the implications of my results was a truly unique opportunity.
I am looking into jobs in marketing, PR and advertising for when I’ve graduated and I am doing some work experience at a PR company this summer.
Read more from Isabelle
Isabelle
This course is accredited by the British Psychological Society .
Our BSc Psychology programme is a stimulating, flexible and contemporary programme that provides you with an excellent foundation in key areas of psychology – developmental, cognitive, biological, social, clinical and personality – together with research methods and data analysis.
In your first year you will explore the core principles of psychology, before you build on your strengths and interests to carry out more specialist research and study in the second and third years.
In your final year, you will work on an extended research project that has the potential to result in truly novel discoveries: many final year projects have subsequently formed part of published research articles.
You will also benefit from Psychology’s diverse range of research collaborations with colleagues in other areas of the University, such as the Medical School, the Business School and the Law School.
You’ll study a range of core areas, gaining a broad knowledge of psychology.
Practical classes will give you training in quantitative, laboratory-based, experimental methodology in psychology.
The first year also includes optional modules such as Classic Studies in Psychology, Introduction to Behaviour and Evolution and Workplace Learning.
a Additionally the written Statistics examination component of PSY1205 must also be passed at 40%.
You will gain more detailed knowledge and critical understanding of psychology and this will help you decide what you would like to focus on in your final year.
There’s a much greater emphasis on original practical work in the second year and you’ll start to design and carry out your own investigations.
Practicals are in areas of cognitive psychology, animal behaviour, social psychology, research interview design and qualitative methods.
Data Science / Placement / Study Abroad year (if taken)
View modules for BSc Psychology with Data Science
Find out more about under Course variants.
In the final year, the majority of your learning is based on small seminar groups.
Optional seminar modules draw on the research expertise of academic staff from four general subject areas: cognitive psychology; neuroscience and neuropsychology; comparative psychology; clinical and child psychology.
BSc Psychology students have the option to spend an additional year studying Data Science, graduating with a BSc Psychology with Data Science.
The Data Science year gives you a comprehensive understanding of data science principles and practical skills, through an intensive immersion into the world of data analytics, machine learning, and big data technologies.
You'll explore the latest developments and tools in areas such as artificial intelligence, cyber security, and human-centred computing.
Through a combination of lectures, hands-on coursework, and real-world applications, you will gain the expertise to apply data science principles and methods in Psychology.
You then have the option to put these into practice in your final year research project.
You will follow the standard Psychology programme in years 1, 2 and 4, but spend your year 3 taking modules in Data Science.
Enhance your employability: in a technology-driven world, graduates who can understand and apply data science principles to solve complex problems are in high demand.
Many employers are looking for people with both technical skills and knowledge of an application area, e.g.
cognitive or behavioural science.
Data science is a globally relevant field, and skills acquired through the programme are transferable across borders.
This can be particularly advantageous if you are seeking international career opportunities.
No - the course is designed to support students without a computing background.
However, you need to achieve an average grade of 2:1 (60%) in your second year, and pass compulsory statistics modules.
There is no need to apply directly to this programme: apply via UCAS for BSc Psychology, and you can transfer onto the four-year programme with Data Science once you are at Exeter.
To be considered for the Data Science year, you need to achieve an average grade of 2:1 (60%) in your second year, and pass compulsory statistics modules.
No - you will still graduate with an accredited BSc.
In the additional year at Exeter you will pay the standard tuition fees.
See the fees section for more details.
In stage 2 you must take one practical module per term.
You cannot take two cognitive practicals, two animal behaviour practicals or more than one social practical.
BSc Psychology with Study Abroad
If you choose BSc Psychology with Study Abroad you will spend the third year of your degree studying at one of our partner universities in Canada or Europe for example.
Whilst overseas, you will complete predominantly psychology-related modules that supplement the academic content of the Psychology modules offered at Exeter.
Details of individual modules that may be taken whilst abroad can be found in the partner institution's factfile .
Yes: all assessments during the year abroad are undertaken at the host university and count towards your final degree.
Upon return to the University of Exeter, you will then complete the final year of your degree in a fourth year.
If you spend a full academic year studying abroad you will pay a reduced fee of 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
More about fees and funding .
There is no need to apply directly to this programme: apply via UCAS for BSc Psychology, and you can transfer onto the four-year programme with Study Abroad once you are at Exeter.
To be eligible for a Study Abroad place, we would expect you to successfully complete your Year 1 and Year 2 studies with an average mark of at least 60% in each year.
BSc Psychology with Professional Placement
UCAS code: C812
This programme offers the opportunity to take a professional placement year (through a competitive entry process).
On this four-year variant of the BSc Psychology degree you will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree, which we support you to secure.
During your first, second and final years of study, you will follow the same programme of study as the BSc Psychology (see Course content ).
If you spend a full year on a work placement, you will pay a reduced fee.
You can apply to BSc Psychology with Professional Placement directly through UCAS using the code above.
BSc Psychology with Data Science
Please see the Data Science section for more information on this option.
If you choose the 'with Data Science' version of this course, you will pay the standard fee for your additional Data Science year.
If you choose the 'with Study Abroad' version of this degree and spend a full academic year studying abroad, you will pay a reduced fee of 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
If you choose 'with Professional Placement' and spend a full year on a work placement (in the UK or abroad) you will pay a reduced fee of 20 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
I did receive a Global Excellence Scholarship which helped support me as an international student by covering some of my student fees.
As a Global Excellence Scholar, I also felt an added motivation to perform at my very highest throughout my experience at Exeter.
What I like most about my course is the broad selection of topics that my lectures cover, from animal behaviour to cognitive therapy to mental health issues.
I also like the various events the P sychology department hosts, my favourite being therapy dog playtime in the Washington Singer building!
Read more from Cali
Cali
There are 10-12 contact hours per week in the first and second years.
This reduces in the third year as you focus on your research project, but you are expected to spend a minimum of 20 hours a week in independent study.
Throughout your studies you will participate in research, for example, as part of the first year Introduction to Research Methods module.
Engaging in research as a participant offers you a valuable insight and provides an alternative perspective that you can draw upon in your future work.
In your second year practical modules, you will both participate in, and help design, psychological research projects.
Our staff are internationally leading experts in the areas that they teach.
You’ll benefit from direct access to this current knowledge through the variety of optional seminar modules that we offer in the final year in which students and the seminar leader discuss advanced topics in psychology.
Insights from current clinical practice inform our undergraduate clinical teaching.
Find out more about our academic teaching staff on the Staff profiles pages .
Here you can read about their areas of research, their publications and which modules they teach.
Almost all modules are assessed by a combination of exams and coursework, or by coursework alone.
Coursework comprises more than half of the overall marks which count towards your final degree.
You will have to pass most of your first year modules in order to progress to the second year, although the marks do not count towards your final degree classification.
Assessment in the second and final years counts towards your final degree award.
Specific support with statistics is available through our Statistics Helpdesk.
Open most weekday mornings during term time, the helpdesk is managed by postgraduate students who are on hand to answer queries and offer guidance and support.
As a graduate from BSc Psychology you will be exceptionally well-placed to pursue your interest in psychology working in sport, exercise and health settings.
You will also be prepared to pursue further training in psychology – for example if you wish to become a clinical, educational or occupational psychologist.
In addition, throughout the programme you will develop a variety of skills that will be attractive to potential employers in a range of sectors including education or business.
A range of employability sessions are put on for our students, such as: career talks with visiting alumni and employers from a range of backgrounds, career conversation events with key employers and an annual ‘Your Future in Psychology’ event and a ‘Careers in Healthcare’ event hosted by a diverse range of organisations.
Recent Psychology graduates have secured initial jobs across a number of sectors including healthcare, commercial and education, with others choosing to undertake further specialist training.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/degreeapprenticeships/programmes/certificateinpsychologicalwellbeingpractice:
Level 6 Certificate in Psychological Wellbeing Practice
health.apprenticeships @exeter.ac.uk
Flexible, blended learning
Delivered within CEDAR (Psychology) at the University of Exeter since the first year of the NHS commissioned programme
Training informed by the BPS accredited IAPT curriculum
The End Point Assessment is conducted by BPS Assessment & Awards Limited, a subsidiary of BPS.
Successful completion of the programme will result in the award of the Level 6 Certificate in Psychological Wellbeing Practice, and the University of Exeter Graduate Certificate in Psychological Wellbeing Practice.
"Exeter have been incredibly supportive, any queries or questions we may have had when first starting out were addressed promptly.
The drive and enthusiasm for the degree apprenticeship has been motivating for all."
Clare Jeckells
Senior Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner, Supervisor and Duty Worker within NHS Cornwall and Isles of Scilly Talking Therapies
Individual employers set the selection criteria in discussion with the University.
Applicants will have evidence of successful study at Level 5 in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, or equivalent, with a minimum of Level 2 English.
Applicants should also have experience of paid or voluntary work in a setting where they have been likely to have had exposure to people experiencing mental health difficulties.
However, there is no expectation they will already have any previous qualifications in psychology.
Applicants must have a valid and eligible residency status to gain entry onto the apprenticeship – please see the ESFA guidance for further information .
Applications to this programme may only be made through NHS services or NHS Talking Therapies service (formerly IAPT [Improving Access to Psychological Therapies]) service in the community, who are recruiting Certificate in Psychological Wellbeing Practice apprentices, not directly through the University.
Recruitment and selection is led by employers, in collaboration with the University.
Posts are typically advertised by services on NHS jobs websites or equivalent.
Once applicants hold the offer of a post, employers will notify the University.
Applicants will then be required to undertake an application to the University.
If successful, they will be offered a position.
A place will be confirmed by us, and we will send further information about how to enroll as an apprentice.
A psychological wellbeing practitioner (PWP) is a mental health worker who supports patients experiencing common mental health difficulties.
PWPs often practice within NHS talking therapies services or other similar organisations.
They are trained to carry out patient-centred interviews and deliver low-intensity interventions based on cognitive-behavioural therapy.
The interventions delivered by PWPs include psychoeducation groups, computerised or text-based support, and 1:1 guided self-help treatment.
The stepped care model works on the principle that patients should be offered the least intrusive and most effective level of care.
This ensures that the treatment options available are appropriate to the patient’s needs and preferences.
There are five steps of mental health care, ranging from self-management (step one) to specialist and acute services (step five).
PWPs work within step two of the stepped care model by delivering low-intensity interventions to patients with mild to moderate presentations of anxiety or depression.
See page 17 of the NHS Talking Therapies manual for more information on the stepped care model.
An interview is an opportunity to showcase your knowledge .
It will be helpful to demonstrate an understanding of the PWP role, how common mental health problems present and the stepped care model.
You will likely need to demonstrate some knowledge about the employer you are applying to work for, their organisational values, and how these relate to the role of a PWP.
Please see the further reading list for helpful resources to expand your understanding in these areas.
It can also be helpful to make direct contact with the employer you are applying to and ask questions about the organisation to learn more about the service expectations and values.
It is important to reflect your skills and experience to demonstrate how you will succeed in the role.
PWPs are required to have a varied skillset, which includes:
To prepare for your interview, it will be helpful to think of some examples from work, voluntary, lived or personal experience, where you can demonstrate these skills.
Spend some time thinking or making notes about different examples.
The STAR method can be helpful to structure these examples.
Situation: What was the situation you were faced with?
Task: What was the responsibility or task you had within the situation?
Action: What action did you personally take?
Result: What was the outcome of that action?
What did you learn?
How may this learning relate to the role of a PWP?
For further questions about the programme, please contact: DATutorSupport@exeter.ac.uk
Full programme cost: £9,000
This apprenticeship for Psychological Wellbeing Practitioners (PWPs) is fully informed by the curriculum established for the Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) programme.
Successful completion will enable trainees to work as fully qualified PWPs within IAPT services with eligibility to apply for entry to the PWP register of the British Psychological Society.
The success of the PWP psychological profession has spearheaded recognition of a wider Practitioner workforce by the Psychological Professions Network.
The Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner Apprenticeship is suitable for those looking to develop their career in the mental health and wellbeing field.
It develops apprentices’ competence to undertake a mental health assessment, support LICBT interventions, communicate effectively with patients, respond to clinical challenges and work collaboratively with other health and social care and community-based organisations.
Training is informed by the BPS accredited IAPT curriculum consisting of the following three modules alongside a clinical practice portfolio:
PYC3031DA
Engagement and Asessment of Patients with Common Mental Health Problems
20 Credits
Clinical Practice
PYC3032DA
Evidence-Based Low Intensity Treatments for Common Mental Health Problems
PYC3033DA
Values, Diversity and Context
"The degree apprenticeship has been one of our most successful pathways in recruiting and training practitioners.
Not only is it a very thorough and well put together programme, but it also recruits some of the best candidates."
Falak Naz
IAPT Step 2 Lead, Senior Cognitive Behavioural Therapist, East London NHS Foundation Trust
Approximately 20 per cent of an apprentice's contractual working time will be given over to study.
The blended learning format incorporates:
*Location of face-to-face delivery can be discussed with the LICBT Director of Portfolio.
The End Point Assessment is conducted by BPS Assessment & Awards Limited, a subsidiary of The British Psychological Society acting as the External Assessment service for the apprenticeship being independent of the course and employer.
All Assessors are qualified and experienced clinical professionals who are independent of the cohort being assessed and contracted.
Our dedicated partnerships team liaise closely with employers throughout the programme; apprentices will have dedicated mentors to assist and guide them throughout the whole course of the apprenticeship.
The Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner apprenticeship is delivered in full adherence with the standards set down by the Institute of Apprenticeships.
Quality is assured through standard University governance procedures, internal CEDAR quality assurance and management processes, Staff-Student Liason committee, with external monitoring undertaken by an External Examiner.
The apprenticeship is managed as part of the Low-Intensity CBT portfolio with a management structure including Portfolio Director, Programme Lead, and Module leads.
This programme aligns with the Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner Apprenticeship Standard .
Over the course of the apprenticeship, your staff will learn to develop and apply knowledge and competency in Low-Intensity CBT (LICBT) for the treatment of patients with common mental health difficulties.
Upon successful completion, apprentices will be fully qualified to work as PWPs within Improving Access to Psychological Therapy (IAPT) services and eligible to apply for entry to the PWP register of the British Psychological Society.
Apprentices will develop competency in assessing and providing support for evidence-based CBT self-help technologies across a range of delivery platforms.
It develops competence to undertake a mental health assessment, support LICBT interventions, communicate effectively with patients, respond to clinical challenges and work collaboratively with other health and social care and community-based organisations.
Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner Brochure
Graduates of an apprenticeship programme will be working in an exciting and relevant job from day one of their studies, meaning when the time comes to move on, they'll have the both the professional and academic experience sought after by employers.
Throughout the programme apprentices will learn to develop and apply the knowledge and skills gained in a practical workplace setting providing valuable experience of using Low-Intensity CBT for the treatment of patients with common mental health difficulties.
They will develop competency in assessing and providing support for evidence-based CBT self-help technologies across a range of delivery platforms.
The role of Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner is fully recognised within the Practitioner workforce by the Psychological Professions Network.
Once qualified, and after a period of practice, development opportunities exist with progression into Senior PWPs providing supervision.
Increasingly PWPs are moving into specialist roles, developing and taking responsibility for specific areas of practice.
PWPs are also moving into senior management posts, leading Low-Intensity services.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology/sociology:
BA Sociology - 2026 entry
Distinctive emphasis on cultural sociology
My lecturers and teaching staff have encouraged me to take a critical perspective of everything in the social world, which has opened my eyes not only academically but also has enriched the way I see the world more generally!
My favourite thing about the course has been learning the skills to do my own social research, which I will ultimately put into practice in my dissertation project.
I found research methods daunting before coming to university, but at Exeter I have developed the skills and confidence to apply these methods to research topics I genuinely care about.
That's why I love sociology - it feels like you can study whatever you are passionate about through a sociological lens, and by doing so you can go on to make a positive difference in the world.
Read more from Nina
Nina
BA Sociology
The Sociology degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of sociological theory and concepts.
In the second year you will advance your grasp of sociological knowledge and methods through a set of compulsory modules.
BA Sociology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: L302
BA Sociology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: L305

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sociology/sociologybsc:
BSc Sociology - 2026 entry
Exeter is one of only 15 UK universities to host a Q Step Centre
The BSc Sociology degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
The first year gives you a foundational knowledge of sociological theory, methods and concepts.
90 credits of compulsory modules.
30 credits of optional modules (SOC1xxx).
The centre-point of the final year is the 30 credit Dissertation module.
In terms of optional modules, you must choose 90 credits worth of optional modules.
90 credits of optional modules
BSc Sociology with Study Abroad
UCAS code: L304
BSc Sociology with Employment Experience
UCAS code: L309
BSc Sociology with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: L310
Sociology provides you with an excellent all-round education, combining subject-specific knowledge and expertise with a wide range of transferable skills sought after by employers.
Many of our graduates choose to follow their degree with employment or further study in people-focused fields in the public and not-for-profit sectors.
Others choose to use the more generic skills developed on the course to follow careers in business and management.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/sport/exsport:
BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences - 2026 entry
Top 40 in the world for Sports-related subjects
Top 3 in the UK for Sports Science
3rd in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Dedicated laboratories for sport and exercise physiology, sports biomechanics and health and performance psychology
89% of our graduates in employment or further study within 15 months of graduating
Sport and Health Sciences students: based on full-time, first degree, UK domiciled graduates, HESA Graduate Outcomes survey 2020/21
I selected Exeter as my top choice after attending an Offer-Holder Visit Day.
It’s hard to articulate why, but I just remember walking around St Luke’s and just knowing it was the place I wanted to study, even in the awful February cold and rain!
I just got this feeling.
Maybe some of you reading this will know what I mean!
What I love most about being a student at the University of Exeter, specifically at St Luke’s, is the fact that the campus really feels like it’s yours.
Everyone on this campus is proud to study here and we really get the best deal; a small and friendly campus dedicated to just a few subjects that aren’t oversubscribed in terms of student population, as well as being able to walk to the Streatham Campus if we want to use the facilities there too.
One of the main reasons I chose Exeter was the city itself.
It’s such a great place to be a student, everything you need is within walking distance from both campuses and the city offers a diverse range of experiences, from historical buildings to restaurants and bars.
The city centre and cathedral area are well-maintained and beautiful in all weathers.
There are also some great places to visit further away down by the Quay or along the river offering nice restaurants and leisure activities.
There’s also the Exmouth-Paignton train line which runs through Exeter and means you can escape to the seaside when the weather is nice at very little cost, which as a student is always good!
The sport and health sciences department is great.
The lecturers are welcoming and always want to talk to you and get to know you better.
The facilities are top-class and the university really cares about our opinions.
You can really throw yourself into university life here as you make some amazing friends on the course.
During my time in Exeter, I was also lucky enough to have the chance to study abroad in Colorado, USA*.
This was genuinely the best decision of my life.
If you get the opportunity to spend part of your degree abroad, be brave and seize it!
You will be so glad you did.
*Study Abroad destinations are subject to change.
BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences with Study Abroad
*Accepted science subjects:
Biology/Human Biology; Chemistry; Computing; Design and Technology; Economics; Electronics; Environmental Science; Environmental Studies; Geography; Geology; Life and Health Sciences (Double Award only), Marine Science; Maths/Pure Maths/Further Maths; Physical Education; Physics; Psychology; Science (applied); Sport Science; Statistics.
The University is the validating partner for the two-year Foundation Degree (HTQ) in Coaching and Fitness at Exeter College.
Graduates of the Exeter College foundation programme, who meet the necessary academic entry standards, would be eligible to progress from the FdSc into year two of the BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences programme at the University of Exeter.
Our BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences programme enjoys an international reputation for excellence.
The programme is designed to provide you with a balanced understanding of both sport and exercise sciences across a range of sub-disciplines.
During the degree you will develop your knowledge of physiology, biomechanics, and psychology, and gain a comprehensive understanding of the scientific principles underlying sport and exercise performance and participation.
You will also acquire scientific research and enquiry skills that are important for careers in both sport and exercise science, and other science-focused industries.
The degree structure allows you to specialise in a particular area or to follow a broader-based programme.
Optional modules reflect the application of scientific knowledge in a variety of populations, such as athletes, children, and the general public.
We have links with major universities in Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Portugal, the USA, Canada and Spain.
The Study Abroad option allows you to study at an overseas university in your third year, earning credits towards your final degree while also gaining vital experience and employability skills.
On the Professional Placement option , you spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree, which we support you to secure.
Focus on developing your foundational knowledge and skills within Exercise and Sport Sciences, including: anatomical knowledge; exercise and sport within a physiological context; exercise and sport related kinesiology and biomechanics; kinanthropometry; nutrition; and underlying theories of sport and exercise psychology.
Continue to develop your knowledge of topics including: the body’s physiological response to exercise; angular kinematics and angular kinetics; statistical data analysis techniques required for a dissertation; and key psychological themes related to sport performance and skill acquisition.
Study Abroad/Professional Placement year (if taken)
On a Professional Placement year you will learn to apply the knowledge learnt during your first and second years, improve personal and transferable skills, make new contacts and enhance your employability.
This year you will put theory into practice.
The research dissertation, under the supervision of an academic tutor, will increase your ability for independent study and critical analysis.
You can also select from a range of optional modules to tailor your degree to your interests.
30-45 credits of compulsory modules, 75-90 credits of optional modules (subject to an overall total of 120 credits)
a You must choose either ESS3302, ESS3304, ESS3003.
My favourite aspect of the course was the wide variety of disciplines within sport sciences.
Initially my main interest was human anatomy, however I’ve since developed an interest in biomechanics, and in particular how biomechanical factors play a role in injury.
BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences
We have links with major universities in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Canada, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Switzerland.
You can find a complete list of International Exchange partner universities on the Study Abroad website.
You can find out more information in the fees section .
There is no need to apply direct to this programme: apply via UCAS for BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences, and you can transfer onto the four-year programme with Study Abroad once you are at Exeter.
BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences with Professional Placement
This course offers the opportunity to take a professional placement year (through a competitive entry process).
You will spend your third year on a self-organised work placement with an organisation relevant to your degree, which we support you to secure.
During your first, second and final years of study, you will follow the same programme of study as the BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences (see Course content ).
There is no need to apply directly to this programme: apply via UCAS for BSc Exercise and Sport Sciences, and you can apply to transfer onto the four-year programme with Professional Placement once you are at Exeter.
UK students: £9,535 per year International students: £29,700 per year
If you transfer onto the four-year version of this degree programme and spend a full academic year studying abroad, you will pay a reduced fee of 15 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
If you choose the four-year version of this degree programme and spend a full year on a work placement (in the UK or abroad) you will pay a reduced fee of 20 per cent of the maximum fee for that year.
Over the last decade the University has invested over £20 million in the creation of some of the highest quality training environments and resources for the development, coaching and playing of sport.
The Sports Park on the Streatham Campus boasts some of the most cutting-edge facilities in the UK including the Russell Seal Fitness Centre.
This facility boasts a 200-station gym and numerous exercise studios.
Additional facilities include:
On average you’ll have 15 hours of teaching time per week with more at the beginning of the programme and less as you progress and take more responsibility for your own learning.
We’re actively engaged in introducing new methods of learning and teaching.
For example, positive feedback from our students has led us to increase use of our learning environment, an easily navigable website where you can access detailed information about modules and utilise multimedia learning resources.
Our staff have close links with a wide range of industrial, medical and sporting organisations with whom there may be the chance to collaborate for your final year research project.
All modules are assessed, with second and third year modules contributing towards your final degree classification.
Modules are assessed using a variety of methods including essays, exams, oral and written presentations, laboratory reports and a dissertation.
We aim to strike a 50:50 balance between coursework and exams over the duration of the programme.
Teaching staff on every module are available for individual tutorial sessions when required.
Module leaders are available to discuss module logistics, examinations and absences.
Teaching staff also make themselves available at the end of lectures for further discussion and debate.
Extra-curricular support is also provided in the form of ‘drop-in’ sessions for more challenging parts of the course such as statistical analysis, scientific writing, and research methodology.
For pastoral support students are assigned a personal tutor , with whom they meet regularly in small groups or in one to one meetings.
Being taught by fantastically engaging lecturers that are currently researching topics in sport sciences gives us access to the most up-to-date knowledge.
Lectures are engaging, and all of the lecturers are so supportive and approachable.
Gemma
A degree in Sport and Health Sciences will help you develop the key transferable skills valued by employers, such as leadership, decision-making, planning and organising, and personal communication.
Vocational skills such as advanced laboratory training for biomechanical and physiological testing further enhance your employability.
Our graduates compete successfully for jobs across a diverse range of sectors including law, finance and business - as well as sport and health sciences - as they offer strong analytical and problem-solving skills which are valued highly across all sectors.
Each year Sport and Health Sciences students are able to access a huge range of opportunities when considering their future career options.
Employability sessions put on for students include: career talks from visiting alumni and employers from a range of backgrounds; career conversations with employers; an annual Careers and Networking Sports Health Science evening with alumni, organisations and employers; and a Careers in Healthcare event.
In addition students receive support to access high-quality work placements through the optional Career Development module.
You will also be encouraged to attend and present at student conferences, such as the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) Student Conference, and to be involved in initiatives including the student ambassadors scheme and workplace internships.
Whatever you choose to do after graduation, your Sport and Health Sciences degree will stand you in good stead, with excellent employment prospects and transferable skills.
Many of our graduates are employed in discipline-relevant roles in the UK and overseas including health and wellbeing coaching, sports and fitness coaching, physiotherapy, sports nutrition, sports law, sports psychology, sports physiology, general teaching and marketing, sports management and administration for the public sector, sports governing bodies and health and lifestyle consultancy.
Below are a few examples of initial jobs undertaken by graduates from our Sport and Health Sciences undergraduate programmes.*
Further study is a popular choice for a number of students following graduation from a Sport and Health Sciences undergraduate degree.
Below are a few examples of further study undertaken by recent graduates of undergraduate programmes.*
As Strength and Conditioning Coach for English Institute of Sport, I work with British Skeleton athletes and England women’s rugby players.
It was a strength and conditioning module in the 2nd year of my course that spurred me on to get into this area.
An employability module put me in touch with Exeter City FC: I did my volunteering with them and then they kept me on.
I stayed at Exeter to do a Masters as the way elite sport is moving it’s a real plus to have one.
I worked with Hockey Wales and as I handed in my dissertation started working with GB rowing which I continued up until the Rio Olympics.
Skeleton is the sport where you head down a frozen track on what looks like a tea tray head first – it’s not for the faint-hearted!
It’s mentally challenging– there’s lots of pressure and it’s all over in less than a minute.
The sprint start is really important and it’s my role to make our start world-class.
Read more from Mitch
Mitch
BSc Sport and Exercise Science graduate
View all Sport and Health Sciences courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/theology/theology:
BA Theology and Religion - 2026 entry
Why do people believe in God or gods?
How have these beliefs changed through time?
How has religion shaped the cultures in which we live?
How can an understanding of religion help us to tackle the global challenges facing us today?
Our degree programme will help you to answer these questions.
The Theology and Religion degree programme is made up of compulsory (core) and optional modules, which are worth 15 or 30 credits each.
Stage 1: 75 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules
BA Theology and Religion with Study Abroad
UCAS code: V616
BA Theology and Religion with Employment Experience
UCAS code: V613
BA Theology and Religion with Employment Experience Abroad
UCAS code: V614
Our teaching is closely linked to our innovative research, giving you the opportunity to explore many diverse topics from the philosophy of religion, theology, biblical studies, and ethics:
You’ll have 10 hours of contact time with staff per week in your first year, alongside additional hours of private study you should expect your total workload to average about 40 hours per week during term time.
Modules are specially designed to help you develop a range of intellectual, transferable and personal skills throughout your degree.
Our Staff-Student Liaison Committee meets once a term to review existing modules, consider new ones and discuss ways the department can be improved.
Our approach to theology and religion is interdisciplinary and relates the broad areas studied to politics, social sciences, the arts, literary studies and more.
Each year we arrange various guest lectures and study days led by visiting speakers, including the series of Prideaux Lectures hosted every other year.
Past lecturers have included Tom Wright, Sarah Coakley, Nicholas Lash, Robin Gill, James Dunn, John Rogerson and Christopher Rowland.
We have a vigorous research culture spanning a wide range of subject areas with strengths in theology, ethics, social contexts, and public issues.
Assessment is based on essays, seminar presentations and exams.
In the second and final years, coursework (including assessed seminar presentations and essays) can account for well over half of your assessment depending on which modules you choose.
Studying Theology and Religion will provide you with valuable skills and abilities which are attractive to employers and relevant for a wide range of careers, such as:
Recent graduates from Theology and Religion at the University of Exeter have progressed to careers in a broad range of sectors, including:
A degree in Theology and Religion will also put you in an excellent position to pursue postgraduate study after you have graduated.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/foundation/foundation:
INTO University of Exeter Foundation - 2026 entry
Email: into@exeter.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0) 1392 724282
Offers are made on an individual basis
Visit the INTO website
Download the INTO brochure
Apply online
Email: into@exeter.ac.uk
Phone: +441392724282
Over 150 different degrees through one single multi-disciplinary pathway, with standard and fast-track options available
Develop the key transferable skills needed for successful undergraduate study
Successful completion guarantees direct entry to a wide range of degree programmes at the University of Exeter
Around 60 per cent of the course is devoted to the academic modules for students’ own subject areas.
Modules are flexible and can be tailored to your chosen degree.
Subject areas include Business, Biological Sciences, Humanities, Engineering, Psychology and Social Sciences.
Academic English Language and Study Skills is a core subject, accounting for approximately 40 per cent of classes, covering reading and study skills, writing, listening and speaking within the context of academic study.
The Fast-Track option allows students to study an accelerated version of the pathway in just 2 terms.
Find out more about the Exeter International Foundation programme >> .
Students can choose between 2, 3 and 4 terms depending on their circumstances, with start dates in January, March, June and September.
The Exeter International Foundation (Fast-Track) is a unique accelerated programme which lasts two terms, starting in March.
Students, who do not meet the minimum English language requirements for direct entry to the three-term Foundation programme may be eligible to apply for the Extended Foundation programme.
Lasting four terms, the Extended Foundation programme incorporates a term of intensive English language tuition at the beginning of the course, allowing you to begin your course and improve your English to a level appropriate for academic study.
Students at the INTO Centre on Streatham Campus, Exeter
For more information about entry requirements, please click on the programme that you are interested in studying:
To apply, complete the INTO online application on the INTO website .
A fuller list of recognised qualifications can be found in our Entry requirements pages.
Students with less than IELTS 5.0 can enrol on an INTO Academic English course for an appropriate period – see the INTO website for further details.
Teaching is delivered through a range of methods including lectures, seminars, academic tutorials and, where appropriate, laboratory classes.
The programmes have also been designed to develop the key transferable skills needed for successful undergraduate study.
Students are assessed by a combination of exams, tests and coursework assignments, which might include essays, presentations, problem solving exercises, reports and research projects.
Modules in academic subjects are assessed at the end of each semester but English language assessment takes place predominantly at the end of the programme.
Grades from the programme do not count towards a final degree but help the University assess students’ abilities in their chosen field of study.
Download the INTO Brochure .
Successful completion of the Foundation programme (subject to achieving specified grades for entry) leads to direct entry to Year 1 of a number of degree subjects at the University of Exeter.
For full details of the specified progression grades for entry please visit the INTO website .
View all University of Exeter International Study Centre: Programmes for International Students courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/foundation/internationalyearone:
INTO University of Exeter International Year One - 2026 entry
There are six subject pathways to choose from:
Around 80 per cent of the course is devoted to subject that relate directly to your proposed degree programme.
All students take Academic English Language and Study Skills within the context of your academic discipline, which accounts for approximately 20 per cent of classes, and covers reading, writing, listening and speaking.
The International Year One is suitable for international students who have studied A levels, International Baccalaureate, a recognised Foundation programme or an international equivalent.
The programme lasts for three terms or approximately nine months and has intakes in both September and January.
Successful completion of the International Year One programme (subject to achieving the specified grades for progression) offers direct entry to Year 2 of a select number of undergraduate degree programmes offered by the University of Exeter Business School, the College of Engineering, Mathematics and Physical Sciences or the College of Life and Environmental Sciences.
To apply, complete the INTO online application on the INTO website.
Successful completion of the International Year One programme (subject to achieving specified grades for entry) gives direct entry to Year 2 of a select number of undergraduate degree programmes at the University of Exeter.
These include
For full details of the specified progression grades for entry please visit the relevant course pages on the INTO website :

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/open-days/pgce:
If you are interested in training to become a teacher, our Open Days provide you with the opportunity to learn more about our Primary PGCE and Secondary PGCE programmes.
You will be able to explore the St Luke's Campus, meet current students and tutors, and find out more about our courses and how to apply.
The dates of our next PGCE Open Days will be published here when they have been confirmed.
If you are interested, please sign up to our Expression of Interest form to be first to hear details.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/open-days/campus-tours:
Joining one of our student-led campus tours or campus visits will give you the opportunity to explore the University grounds and buildings and ask any questions you may have about studying at the University of Exeter.
Which campus should I visit?
Please check the undergraduate or postgraduate course webpage for the degree you're interested in to see which campus it's taught at.
What is a Campus Tour and how can I attend one?
We run regular guided campus tours during term time, where our Student Ambassadors will guide you around the campus showing you what life is like here, using their first-hand experience of studying at the University of Exeter.
From key study areas, sports facilities and our main university buildings, to places to socialise and relax; our Student Ambassadors can guide you around, welcoming questions as you tour the campus.
The tour dates are published on the website about a month beforehand.
We have a more limited number of tours during the vacation periods, but we always try to accommodate you where possible, so do enquire if you have a specific date you would like to visit us.
At our Penryn Campus, we offer a series of Explore Postgraduate Cornwall events which incorporate both a campus tour and the opportunity to chat with staff and students from our Graduate School of Environment and Sustainability.
You can find out more and book your place by following the link above.
Campus tours provide an overview of the campus but do not include a subject department visit or viewing inside accommodation.
We also have self-guided and virtual tours available for each of our campuses .
Our self-guided tours are great as you can take them at your own pace, and our amazing 360-degree virtual tours let you explore parts of the campus you might not get to otherwise see, such as right inside some of the accommodation we offer.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/open-days/offer-holder-days:
Our Offer Holder Days give you an exclusive insight into your course at Exeter.
You'll spend time with future classmates and take part in subject activities.
When you receive an offer from the University of Exeter we will let you know about our suite of ‘in-person’ and virtual offer-holder events designed to help you make your decisions and choose your university.
From February to April we run Offer-Holder Visit Days across all of our campuses (dates and times will be sent to you via email).
Later in the Spring term we offer a suite of virtual subject and information sessions providing information on our programmes and life as a student at the University of Exeter.
All offer-holders will receive an email invitation to these activities.
If you can’t wait for an Offer-Holder Visit Day and are keen to visit our campuses before then, you can book onto another of our Open Day events held throughout the year.
We are excited to offer you a tour of the facilities and buildings that you will frequent narrated by a current student studying the subject that you have chosen.
Our brand-new subject-specific Campus Tours on our new 360-degree Virtual Tour platform give you information and insights into the University and your subject, whilst providing a realistic sense of what it would be like to be on campus.
Please get in touch with us via our webform if you have any questions.
Alternatively, you can use our Visits and Enquiries Bot on the bottom right of this page to find answers to some common questions, or get in touch with a member of the team.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/open-days/online:
Online Open Days
Online Open Day
Download a prospectus

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/discoverpostgraduate:
Discover Postgraduate
Talk to a current student online
Register for updates

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/about/facts/russellgroup:
Exeter is a member of the Russell Group , which represents 24 leading UK universities committed to maintaining the very best research, an outstanding teaching and learning experience and unrivalled links with business and the public sector.
Russell Group universities play a major role in the intellectual, cultural and economic life of the UK and have an international reputation for the high quality of their research and teaching.
In an increasingly global higher education market, they attract the very best academics and students from around the world, as well as investment from multinational, research intensive businesses.
By virtue of their size and the quality of their research and teaching, Russell Group universities create and catalyse a diverse range of economic activity which has a major impact on the economy of the UK
Which universities are part of the Russell Group?
Our world-leading research impact grew by 72% between 2014 and 2021, more than any other Russell Group university.
We are 1st in the Russell Group for world-leading research in Sport Science and Theology and Religious Studies.
The University has been awarded a Gold rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) assessment.
Find out why we think you'll love it here.
Read more about our world-leading research.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/open-days/exeter-hotels-restaurants:
Each partner hotel below has provided a short paragraph about their facilities and services, information about their offer and how to make your booking.
Hampton by Hilton, Exeter Airport
£85 B&B
Book via the Hampton by Hilton website and enter 2971736 where it states corporate account
Holiday Inn Express, Exeter City Centre
15% discount when booking through direct link below or using our corporate ID in the IHG app.
Book via this link: Holiday Inn Express Exeter City Centre - University of Exeter
Book via the app: IHG app booking instructions using corporate ID number: 787027015
Holiday Inn Express, Exeter East
Book via this link: Holiday Inn Express Exeter East - University of Exeter
Book via the app: IHG app booking instructions using corporate ID number: 787027015
Ilsington Country House Hotel
10% off Bed & Breakfast rates.
When booking quote Exeter Uni to redeem.
Visit the Ilsington Country House Hotel website
Leonardo Hotels, Exeter
20% discount off our best flexible B&B rate.
Use the code UOEOPENDAY when booking via www.leonardohotels.co.uk .
This offers a 3pm day before arrival cancellation policy, so you can cancel or amend without charge as long as you make the amendment/cancellation prior to 3pm the day before you are due to arrive.
Townhouse, Exeter
We can offer a 5% discount on current ‘room only’ rates if booking direct either through our website, or by email or telephone.
This offer is not valid if booked via other online websites, eg Booking.com, Expedia.com, etc.
To Redeem – quote ‘OpenExeter24’
The Lamb Inn, Longdown
10 percent off room for one night stay.
Need to book directly with hotel and on dates of Open Days.
Book directly with Nick/Hotel and advise they are visiting UoE Open Day
Each partner restaurant below has provided a short paragraph about their facilities and services, information about their offer and how to make your booking.
Lloyd's Lounge
10% off food and drink (non-inclusive of any other promotion or discount)
Quote SabatiniOpenDay2025 when booking
Lloyd's Kitchen
Lloyd's Kitchen is one of Exeter's most popular places to eat, meet and drink, we are open 7 days week, offering everything from early morning coffee, to breakfast, lunch and light bites in a relaxed and convivial atmosphere.
On Friday and Saturday evenings the restaurant is transformed into a funky dining venue providing an A La Carte Menu.
20% Off Food Bill - (Not valid with any other promotion)
To redeem any offers please produce confirmation of your Open Day booking and quote reference code Uni Offer
Offer Availability: Monday - Sunday (Saturday before 11:30am)
Bookings can be made via the following link www.lloydskitchen.co.uk
Sabatini's
The Terrace
25% off total bill
Guest can book tables via the website: https://www.theterraceexeter.com/contact/ or by calling 01392 793030 .
Any groups bigger then 7 will need to contact directly by telephone.
The establishments listed on this page are not agents of, or affiliated in any manner to, the University of Exeter.
If you choose to use the special promotional discounts listed on this page you acknowledge and understand that your relationship will be direct with the establishment.
The University disclaims any responsibility for, and will not be held liable for:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/open-days/penryn-hotels-restaurants:
The Greenbank Hotel
10% off stay
To book, please call 01326 312 440 quoting 'Exeter Open Day'
For further information visit the Green Bank Hotel website
St Michael's Resort
10 percent off room
Use the code UNI10 on our Website when booking
Visit the St Michael's resort website
Penmere Manor Hotel
10% off room with code below, extra 10% off if you sign up for newsletter.
Once you place their search dates on the site, you will need to enter the code on top right hand side.
Code – EXU24
Visit the Penmere Manor website
The Alverton
Visit the Alverton website for more information about the accommodation
Reference Exeter Open Day when booking.
All bookings to be made by phone.
Penmorvah Manor Hotel
10% discount on rooms.
Book directly with the hotel.
For further information visit the Penmorvah Manor Hotel.
Can’t be used in conjunction with any other offers.
Royal Duchy Hotel
10 percent off room rate
Use this code – EXETER when booking online.
For further information visit the Royal Duchy Hotel
The Ranch
10% off food and drink (non inclusive of any other promotion or discount)
Guests to write WELCOME2024 in notes box when making booking online and just mention Uni Open Day if booking via phone
The Shack
The Shed
Visit the Shed website
UpperDeck Falmouth
10% discount offered.
Use WELCOME2024 in notes when making a booking.
The hotel operators and/or hotels listed on this page are not agents of, or affiliated in any manner to, the University of Exeter.
If you choose to use the special promotional discounts listed on this page you acknowledge and understand that your relationship will be direct with the hotel operator and/or hotel.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/scholars:
Exeter Scholars is a free programme giving you the opportunity to find out more about university, develop a passion for a chosen subject, and gain first-hand experience of student life at the University of Exeter.
It will provide you with:
The programme offers opportunities for both South West-based and national students, has activity pathways starting in Year 10, and supports participants through to the end of Year 13.
All pathways include exciting face-to-face events, as well as continued support and online activities to complete in your own time.
Residentials
Support & benefits

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/students/wp-support:
We believe that all students should have equal and fair access to Higher Education.
We also recognise that studying at university isn’t as straightforward for everyone, and depending on your financial, personal or ethnic background, you may face additional challenges in both accessing Higher Education and throughout your studies.
We have dedicated staff who are on hand to help students who require additional support, including financial advice and assistance, access to accommodation, learning and career advice, peer support and help with wellbeing.
We also provide an enhanced induction programme for eligible students as part of our Transition support , to help you settle into university life.
We are committed to supporting students from all walks of life and building an inclusive learning environment.
We support equality and diversity across all of our campuses and are proud to welcome all students to our campuses, and are committed to supporting our LGBTQ+ community.
We also welcome staff, students and visitors from all faith backgrounds, as well as those from none.
Find out more about how we are working with students, researchers and academic staff to build an inclusive learning environment on the Success for All and Centre for Social Mobility websites.
We work with young people, carers, foster families, social services, virtual schools and organisations to support progression to HE.
We are developing a number of initiatives to better support those with caring responsibilities.
Living with a disability should not be seen as a barrier to accessing higher education - we have a range of support services available.
We have proudly taken the Stand Alone Pledge which will help provide support for estranged students, those without family support.
If you are from a low income household, you may be able to access additional funding to support you throughout your degree.
If you entering university for the first time and are aged over 21, we may have additional support available to our mature students.
We are committed to ensuring the healthy wellbeing of our students and offer a range of support services.
We welcome students from all backgrounds and want all of our students to feel at home with us.
The University is proud to welcome asylum seekers and refugees to study at all levels.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/clearing/prepareforclearing:
Every year, thousands of students successfully secure their place at university through Clearing.
We understand that this can be an anxious time, but don’t worry, we’re here to help.
To guide you through the process, we’ve put together some information on how to apply through Clearing, our top tips , and answered your frequently asked questions below to make it as quick and easy as possible.
We’ve also provided some advice for parents and supporters .
Clearing is how universities and colleges fill places they have remaining on their courses.
It's an ideal way for you to find another course, if you do not meet the conditions of your offers.
It is also used by applicants who originally applied to one university but have since decided they want to study at a different one, or who decide that they would like to apply to study at a university after the 30 June UCAS deadline.
Step 1: Explore our vacancies
Once Clearing opens, our course vacancies will be listed on our Vacancies page.
Take a look and find the one you are interested in and check you meet the Clearing entry requirements.
Websites will have the most up-to-date information and will be quicker than waiting for a response to an email enquiry.
You can also research details of specific courses online - our undergraduate study site has detailed course descriptions (and lots more information about the University).
Universities will constantly update their list of Clearing places through July and August.
The UCAS website contains lists of course vacancies and will be continuously updated.
National UK papers like The Guardian and The Telegraph will also list Clearing places on the morning of results day for some institutions.
Step 2: Apply for a Clearing vacancy
At the University of Exeter, you need to apply using our online form to be considered for a Clearing offer.
Our online form is quick and easy to complete and is the only way to receive a decision.
Each university is operated slightly differently, some may be able to advise you by phone whether your grades are a good fit and some will offer you a place on the phone (a verbal offer); others will ask you to email or fill out an online application form.
If you need help completing the form or have a question about Clearing, you can contact us via our live chat or give us a call .
Step 3: What to do after you apply
Once you've submitted your application, you’ll receive a link to access your personal Gateway.
Through your Gateway, you can:
If you receive a Clearing offer from us, it will appear in your Gateway where you can review and respond directly within the system.
You will also need to add the University of Exeter as a Clearing choice on the UCAS Hub.
This is the only way to get an official and formal Clearing offer.
Step 4: Making you an offer
If we can make you an offer, we will send you an offer email which will provide you with details on the next steps, including a link to your own applicant gateway where you can accept your offer.
This email will include the deadline for you to accept the offer.
You are able to receive offers from other universities, but you can only accept one.
Step 5: Update your UCAS Hub
Once you have chosen which offer to accept, you need to add the course as your Clearing choice in UCAS Hub .
You must do this before the deadline provided in your offer email.
If you are holding a place at another university, you will need to get released before you can refer your application.
Applicants are able to self-release via UCAS.
We've pulled together some top tips and advice for Clearing, plus some blog articles from current and former Exeter students, to help you get the most out of the process.
You can read them below.
Got a question?
You can ask a current student online .
Do your research
When you become eligible to apply for a university place in Clearing, you might have to contact lots of universities on the same day and make decisions quickly.
This can feel a bit daunting but preparing in advance can help make it as stress-free as possible.
Get ready
You might have to wait until you get your results to be eligible for Clearing, but you can gather all the information you'll need on the day in advance.
If you’re thinking about studying with us, there are lots of ways you can explore our beautiful, green campuses.
This is a great way to help you decide if we are the right place for you.
For more information, please visit this page .
On results day
How I Found My Way to the University of Exeter
Remie, Psychology BSc
How to prepare for Results Day and Clearing
Elly, BSc Medical Imaging
My Top Tips for Clearing
Idris, BSc Psychology
My Clearing Experience
Yasmin, MSci Nursing
I’m holding a place elsewhere.
Will you consider me?
I am holding a place at the University of Exeter, but may want to change course when I receive my results.
Should I apply via Clearing?
No, you do not need to apply through Clearing.
If you are already holding a place at Exeter and now want to be considered for an alternative course, please contact our Admissions team at: ug-ad@exeter.ac.uk (putting 'Request to change course' in the email subject).
We will consider your request and if approved we will process a change of course decision to UCAS.
When does Clearing open?
Clearing is available from July to September each year.
Once you have your grades we would suggest that you start looking at what programmes are available in Clearing as soon as you can as places go very quickly.
If you have applied through UCAS and you think you may need Clearing, you can do this once you have your exam results.
UCAS Hub will also state if you are eligible.
Clearing officially opens at UCAS on Saturday 5 July 2025.
UCAS Clearing closes at the end of September; however, each university will close to Clearing when all its spaces have been filled.
When do results come out?
You can apply as soon as you have your results.
Will I need an interview if applying through clearing?
The majority of our programmes do not require applicants to attend an interview.
The only programmes which require an interview through Clearing are Medicine, Medical Imaging, Nursing, and Applied Psychology, if vacancies are available.
I have completed the Clearing online application form but not received a reply, what should I do?
During the Clearing period we receive a high volume of Clearing applications.
Our Admissions team will be working hard to process decisions as quickly as possible.
Please keep checking your emails (including your spam folder) as a decision will be sent to you via email.
You should have received an acknowledgement email to confirm your application has been submitted, within this you will have access to your applicant gateway, where you will be able to check the status of your application.
How do I accept my Clearing offer from the University of Exeter?
If you receive an offer you will be sent confirmation via email.
This email will confirm the following steps which you need to take to accept the offer.
Your offer email will give you a deadline by which you need to accept and refer your application to us via UCAS Hub .
If you are holding a place at another university you will need to get released before you can refer your application.
Applicants are able to self-release via UCAS Hub .
Can I request an extension to my Clearing offer deadline?
Yes, you can email our admissions team at: ug-ad@exeter.ac.uk (putting 'Extension to my clearing offer' in the email subject), they will then advise whether this is possible and if applicable what your new deadline date is.
I'm accepting an offer at Exeter through Clearing - where will I live?
I've accepted an offer and sorted out my accommodation - what now?
What is Clearing plus?
Clearing plus is a matching service for any applicants who are unplaced and eligible for Clearing.
If you find yourself in Clearing this year, UCAS will match you to courses you may be interested in, using what they know about you from your application, and what universities and colleges are looking for in a student.
If you’re unplaced or have started a new application, a button will appear in your Hub – ‘My matches’.
This will take you to your top 50 course matches.
You’ll then be able to tell universities and colleges if you’re ‘interested’ in their courses.
If they still have vacancies and you meet their entry requirements, they may contact you.
Don’t worry, if you want to apply for something different you can still find courses available in Clearing using the UCAS search tool .
Will there definitely be places in Clearing in August at the same levels you are advertising now?
We can’t guarantee this because we don’t know exactly how many current offer-holders will achieve results meeting our requirements.
But we will be fair to offer-holders whose grades match our currently advertised Clearing grades – their places will be confirmed ahead of any further Clearing recruitment.
If we do have further summer Clearing spaces available after that, we may decide to allocate these according to your grades, starting with the strongest and working through.
Summer Clearing is a first-come-first-served process and places can run out at any point on A-Level results day (Thursday 14 August).
You rejected my application based on my grades which are in line with the grades now advertised in Clearing.
How is that fair?
When we processed your application, we made our decision based on the number of applications received and places available on your chosen programme at that moment in time.
If you have already achieved the grades we are asking for in Clearing, you are not currently holding any offers or wish to discuss your situation as you still wish to come to Exeter, we would encourage you to apply through Clearing.
If you have not yet secured your results, please check our Clearing homepage on results day for our current position.
We manage the total number of places available on our courses carefully to ensure the best possible experience for all our students.
This is why you often see International places available when UK places are already filled.
We have separate target numbers for 'home' (UK) and international students.
We therefore go on making offers a little longer for international, including across the summer period, when UK recruitment is already finished.
UK and international students both have to meet our challenging entry requirements and we never admit any student without every reasonable prospect that they will succeed on their course.
If you consider the contextual offer levels set out alongside the standard offers in our Prospectus, you will see that UK students, as well as International students, benefit from flexibility.
We finalise International and UK student recruitment at different points in the cycle.
Can I apply through Clearing for deferred entry?
We will only consider applicants apply through Clearing for entry in September 2025.
Unfortunately, we will not consider deferred entry starting in 2026.
Will you accept compensating grades through Clearing?
Compensating grades may be considered when applying for a place through Clearing.
For example: where a programme requires grades of BBB over 3 A ‘Levels, we may consider an applicant who has achieved ABC over 3 A ‘Levels.
Specific subject requirements will still need to have been achieved at the grade advertised.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/clearing/international:
Apply through Clearing
At the University of Exeter, our campuses offer a vibrant and inclusive learning community, with over 30,000 students from over 150 countries.
We are here to support you and we hope to see you in September!
We're pleased to guarantee accommodation to all international students who secure a place through Clearing this year.
To be eligible for guaranteed university owned/managed/approved partner accommodation, you must apply by 23.30 BST on Sunday 24 August 2025 .
Accommodation is limited, and we’ll be sharing updates on the type and location of the accommodation on our Exeter Accommodation and Penryn Accommodation webpages.
We’re offering scholarships starting from £3,000 to international students from China , India, Singapore, Turkey, Malaysia and Thailand applying through the 2025 Clearing process for eligible campus-based undergraduate programmes.
These scholarships are designed to support your academic goals and help you thrive in our diverse and welcoming university community.
No separate application is required – if you’re eligible you’ll be automatically considered when you apply .
Meet face-to-face with University of Exeter representatives to discuss your study options and receive bespoke advice on courses, eligibility, career prospects, and more.
If you’re travelling to our campuses during arrivals weekend (13-14 September), we’ll look after you from the moment you land, including offering an airport collection service.
Airport Collection Service
We'll be putting on an Airport Collection Service from Heathrow to get you to our campuses on Saturday 13 and Sunday 14 September.
Find out more and book our Airport Collection Service .
Arriving on different dates
Don’t worry if you arrive outside this period.
We have full information about travelling to our campuses here .
The International Student Support team is here to ensure you can get the most out of your experience at the University of Exeter.
Our International Students Guide gives you all the information you need to prepare for your time at Exeter, including applying for a visa , how to access healthcare in the UK , and what to expect as a student.
You can attend our webinars and ask questions or watch the presentations on a variety of themes to help you prepare for coming to university.
We encourage students arriving after Welcome and Orientation to attend an Intercultural Café to meet the team and ask any questions they may have.
Support with your studies
Wellbeing
Taking care of your physical and mental wellbeing while you’re at university is essential.
We have support available to all our students 24/7, so there is always someone to talk to if you need it, wherever you are:
Our University community
We also provide lots of ways to get involved with our University community, through our organised celebrations and initiatives which can help students make friends and adapt to the culture of the UK.
We love sharing art, performance, food, and other aspects of all the cultures on campus, and always celebrate events like Diwali and Spring Festival with fireworks!
More information on all of this support is shared with all students before they join the university.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/clearing/supporters:
Didn't get the results they hoped for?
Your support makes all the difference.
Help them apply through clearing.
We understand that Clearing can be an uncertain time for you and your young person.
We’re here to help you navigate the process with confidence, to help them prepare as best as they can.
If you’re supporting someone who thinks they might need to use Clearing to find a place at university, preparing in advance can make the process as stress-free as possible.
Here are our top tips for ways you can help:
What is Clearing?
There are lots of reasons why students might be looking for a university place through Clearing, for example, if they:
Clearing runs from the beginning of July until the end of September.
It is busiest around UK A-Level results day in August; however international students who receive their exam results before this are usually able to apply earlier.
While the prospect of Clearing may seem daunting, thousands of students successfully secure a university place through this process every year.
Before results day:
On results day:
The process was straightforward and efficient, and the admissions team were helpful with my application as well.
After a week, I confirmed my place to study BA Communications at Exeter.
I was excited about coming to Exeter and studying in the UK.
During the two years in Exeter, I am glad that everything turned out to be better than I expected.
I got to study on a beautiful campus and met like-minded friends.
My advice for going through clearing as an international student would be to keep calm, seek help if you need to and be patient while waiting.
Everything will fall into place soon.
When results day came around, I had been looking into clearing options and had seen Exeter was an option for my course.
I applied and secured my place, with all the staff at Exeter being extremely helpful in getting everything sorted for me.
Exeter is a beautiful place to live and being by the coast is such a benefit for me.
The teaching I have received at Exeter has been great, being a Russell Group university means your lecturers are truly passionate and at the top of their field.
Clearing shouldn’t be stressful and finding out where is offering spaces before the day can mean you know where to call first if you need to.
When I was preparing for Clearing, I looked up universities that offered programmes comparable to the one I had originally selected.
I was drawn to Exeter because of its excellent reputation and stunning campus.
At Exeter, the Clearing procedure was simple, and the admissions staff were super helpful and encouraging throughout.
When I was given the opportunity to study my desired course at Exeter, I was thrilled and thought it was meant to be.
My experience at Exeter has been wonderful thus far.
I have made so many friends from all over the world at the University because of its friendly and inclusive community.
The teaching is outstanding, and the academic standard is very high.
We also have other advice and information for parents and supporters of students in the process of applying to university, including guidance on financial help, wellbeing and safety, accommodation and more.
Parents of international students can find further information in our dedicated international students' parents guide .
This is also available in Mandarin .
Parents and supporters of UK students
Parents and supporters of international students

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/clearing/contactus:
You can contact our Admissions team who will be happy to answer your queries through any of the following routes.
We will be available to respond to your queries Monday to Friday from 09:00-17:00 (UK time).
We will be extending our opening times on the following days:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/clearing/visit:
Depending on your choice of degree, you may be based at our Streatham Campus or St Luke's Campus in Exeter, or at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
Both locations offer safe, green campuses in some of the most beautiful parts of the UK, and are home to students from over 150 countries.
Self-guided tours
If you're in the UK, you can take a self-guided tour of our Streatham and St Luke's campuses in Exeter and our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
Virtual tours
If you’re not yet in the UK or visiting in person isn’t an option, our virtual campus tours are the next best thing.
You can see inside our lecture theatres, accommodation, facilities and grounds.
To help you make your decision, if you have a confirmed Clearing Offer or an Alternative Offer from us, the email which confirms your offer tells you how you can talk to our academic staff and our current Student Ambassadors.
Please read this email carefully and remember to check junk/spam email boxes if you can’t initially find it.
Details of activities specific to your offer will be in your offer email.
Chat to a student
You can also follow our Instagram account @exeterunilife - created by students, for students.
Penryn Campus (Cornwall)
If you have any questions about your course, accommodation options, wellbeing, finance or are coming to the UK from overseas, please contact us via our enquiry form .
Please clearly state the course title you have an offer for, the campus your course is taught at, your contact details and your question(s) and we will reply as soon as possible.
If you would like to chat to a current student about a course or have a question about studying and living in Cornwall you can chat online to one of our Unibuddy ambassadors or contact us via our enquiry form to arrange a conversation.
Streatham and St Luke’s Campuses (Exeter)
If you have any questions about your course, accommodation options, wellbeing, finance or coming to the UK from overseas, please contact us via our enquiry form.
Please clearly state the course title you have an offer for, the campus your course is taught at, your contact details and your question(s) and we will reply as soon as possible.
If you would like to chat to a current student about a course or have a question about studying and living in Exeter you can chat online to one of our Unibuddy ambassadors .
Penryn Campus tour
Take a tour of our Penryn Campus in Cornwall.
Streatham Campus tour
Take a look around our Streatham Campus, Exeter.
St Luke's Campus tour
Take a virtual visit around St Luke’s Campus, Exeter.
Please get in touch via our enquiry form .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/entryrequirements:
For postgraduate study at Exeter you will normally be required to have obtained, or expect to obtain, a first degree equivalent to at least a UK 2:2 Honours degree.
For specific entry requirements and typical offer details please visit our Postgraduate course pages .
Entry requirements for taught programmes can be found on individual programme webpages.
International qualifications
The University recognises a wide range of international qualifications and equivalencies.
If you are studying outside the UK the grading system and level of qualification in your country may not be the same as in the UK.
If you are unsure whether your qualification meets our entry requirements, you can find out more information on our Entry requirements pages, by clicking on the country or region in which you have studied.
Alternatively, you may wish to contact the ECCTIS (Educational Counselling and Credit Transfer Information Service) or the Admissions Office for further guidance about their suitability for entry to our programmes, providing as much detail as possible.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/applying:
The steps below will walk you through the application process.
For information on when to apply please see the application deadlines page.
Choose a course
Detailed research will help you choose a course best suited to your interests and future ambitions.
Check entry requirements
Check our entry requirements for the course you are interested in.
3.
Make an application
4.
After you apply
Find out how we will assess your application and the next steps.
Admissions terms and conditions

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/fees:
Fees are listed in each programme entry.
They are confirmed in the Autumn for students starting in the following academic year and are subject to change each year.
The fee stated for a full-time Masters will usually be the total fee for a one-year programme.
Fees for part-time and modular programmes (where available) are pro-rata.
To query your fee status within the 28 day period please contact us at ad-feestatus@exeter.ac.uk stating your full name, Exeter student number, programme for which you have been made an offer and providing details of why you think the fee classification is incorrect.
Visit our scholarships and funding website >>
What if my programme lasts more than one year?
If the duration of your chosen programme of study spans more than one academic year, the tuition fees for future years are expected to rise by a modest amount to take account of inflationary pressures.
You can view tuition fees for students already studying with us on our Student Finance web pages .
When are my fees due?
If you receive an offer of a place on a full-time taught postgraduate programme you will need to pay a tuition fee deposit to confirm your place.
Tuition fees are typically payable in two 50% instalments, normally in September (at the start of your course) and January each year.
See our student finance pages for more details.
How much will it cost?
When you're studying for a Masters your tuition fee is only one part of the cost of doing a postgraduate degree: you also have to consider accommodation and living costs.
More details regarding accommodation, including costs, are available on our accommodation page.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/contact:
These webpages provide comprehensive information about postgraduate study at Exeter.
If in addition you would like to download a copy of our printed prospectus, this can be done through our prospectus order form .
Visit the Postgraduate Society's Facebook Page .
Admissions
Phone: 0300 555 60 60 (UK callers)* +44(0)1392 723044 (EU/International callers) Web: Enquire online
Postgraduate Admissions University of Exeter Admissions Office, The Innovation Centre, University of Exeter, Rennes Drive, Exeter EX4 4RN
Visit the Postgraduate Admissions pages for information and advice.
If you are encountering any problems difficulties with our online application form, please contact us at adm-sysdev@exeter.ac.uk .
PGCE (teacher training) enquiries
A separate prospectus for PGCE programmes is available from:
Graduate School of Education University of Exeter Heavitree Road Exeter EX1 2LU
Phone UK callers: 0844 6200012 International callers: +44(0)1392 723009 (EU/International callers)
Web: Enquire online Visit the Teacher Training webpages
Doctoral College
University of Exeter Doctoral College The Old Library Streatham Campus University of Exeter Prince of Wales Road Exeter EX4 4SB
Web: www.exeter.ac.uk/doctoralcollege Email: doctoral.college@exeter.ac.uk
Research Development Programme (RDP) Email: researcherdevelopment@exeter.ac.uk Visit the Researcher Development and Research Culture website
Phone: +44 (0) 1392 723405 Web : Enquire online Visit our website for International Students
Stocker Road Exeter UK EX4 4PY
Phone: +44 (0) 1392 724282 Email: into@exeter.ac.uk Visit the INTO University of Exeter website
Phone (0) 300 555 0444 (UK) Phone +44 (0) 1392 724724 (International)
Email: sid@exeter.ac.uk Visit the Accommodation website
+1 Forum Stocker Road Exeter EX4 4SZ Phone: +44 (0) 1392 723880 E-mail: AccessAbility@exeter.ac.uk Visit the AccessAbility website
Student Services Penryn Campus Penryn Cornwall TR10 9FE Phone: +44 (0) 1326 370443 Email: AccessAbility@falmouth.ac.uk Visit the Penryn Accessibility and Dyslexia pages
Student Recruitment Operations team:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/applying/january-start:
If the traditional September start isn’t what you’re looking for, then our January intake of Masters offers you a chance to kick off your studies at a different time of the year.
Choosing a January start in your postgraduate journey means you'll cover the same course content but at a time of year that suits you.
Please note, not all of our Masters have a January start.
Check out the list below for a full list of the courses that offer this.
Business and Management
Engineering
Finance
Our Exeter Excellence Scholarships recognise high academic achievement and assist scholars in accessing our exceptional teaching and learning, whilst taking advantage of all that University life offers to support their ambitions for the future.
These scholarships are available for applicants looking to study with us in January 2026 and applications for these scholarships will open in September.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/accounting:
Master your future in accounting
Explore the world of accounting at our triple accredited Business School, taught by internationally renowned academics who are highly respected in their fields.
You’ll gain well-rounded expertise in a range of areas including financial accounting, management accounting, financial management, corporate governance, and auditing.
Our teaching combines the latest academic theories with practical skills so you can launch a dynamic career in a wide range of sectors.
You’ll also benefit from intensive computer training covering key financial databases including Thomson Reuters, Datastream, Morning Star and other software systems.
You also have the opportunity to join our series of seminars and workshops by visiting speakers in which practicing fund managers and finance experts from leading banks share their expertise through a combination of seminars, discussions and practical project work.
The University of Exeter offers a lot of optional modules which meant I could really adapt my course to suit me.
I’ve discovered new interests and widened my expertise whilst also developing my interpersonal and practical skills.
I really enjoy the variety the programme offers, if you want to push yourself and broaden your knowledge this course is perfect.
Dimitrios
MSc Accounting and Finance
The structure of the course is well designed, with a mix of lectures and practical exercises.
Some classes involve the application of data processing software which is an important skill to gain in this era of Big Data.
After the first semester, I was able to proficiently manipulate Excel and STATA, and even write simple code, which will be very helpful for my future work.
Li

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/anthropology:
Food Studies at Exeter
Anthropology at Exeter is one of the most exciting, relevant and varied subjects you can study at university.
We have a contemporary outlook and our research is grounded in a variety of social settings and institutions including NGOs, hospitals, farming communities in the South West of England, markets in South Korea, English multicultural communities, social media in Jordan and Japanese urban art collectives.
Based in the department of Sociology, Philosophy and Anthropology, our academic staff hold doctorates in Sociology, Philosophy, Anthropology, History, Biochemistry and Physics.
We are one of the most diverse academic units in any UK university.
This interdisciplinarity means we are able to provide research and teaching programmes that unite empirical, historical-epistemological, practical, theoretical and critical perspectives.
Our work is both descriptively and normatively oriented and our research has been published by Cambridge, Oxford, MIT, Chicago, University of California, Harvard, Routledge, Sage and other leading publishers.
*Based on research rated 4* + 3* in REF 2021, our research in Sociology, Philosophy, Anthropology and Criminology was returned to this UoA
The course material was far broader and deeper than I had imagined.
It satisfied my curiosity, and left me wanting more.
Also, the experience/support of my fellow students in this relatively new field was extremely enriching, and the expertise/insight of instructors was outstanding.
Read more from Diane
Diane
MA Anthrozoology graduate

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic:
The Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies is one of Europe’s most renowned centres for research and teaching in the Arab and Muslim World.
Our impressive building is the largest purpose-built Middle East centre in the UK, and is constructed in an architectural style evocative of the region.
It is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, including a computerised language lab, lecture theatres, seminar rooms, lounge, satellite TV for viewing Middle Eastern channels and a gallery for Middle Eastern art exhibitions.
The Arab World Documentation Unit based in the Research Commons is a valuable research resource, housing numerous collections of academic textbooks, press cuttings,  government papers and reports, periodicals, pamphlets, business yearbooks, and much more, with material in English, Arabic and Hebrew.
*Based on 4* research submitted to REF 2021, Submitted to UoA25 Area Studies
The atmosphere at the Institute is buzzing with new research and interesting topics of learning.
The community is very international, with conversations in many different languages.
Meeting so many people with new perspectives and sharing interests and nuggets of research over coffee or lunch has been brilliant.
Joanne
Arab and Islamic Studies Masters student

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/archaeology:
Our department is surrounded by sites of archaeological interest and is currently involved in many exciting projects across the world.
You will be joining a vibrant, active postgraduate community, with many opportunities to get involved with the research conducted in the department beyond your academic classes.
We currently have active research projects in the UK, Europe, South America, North America, Central Asia and South Asia, which may offer fieldwork opportunities.
Our facilities include dedicated postgraduate workrooms, a landscape research room, a state-of-the-art bioarchaeology lab, access to the university’s Digital Humanities Lab, experimental archaeology centre and other laboratory facilities.
Our research encompasses evidence-based social archaeology – specialising in bioarchaeology, landscape, experimental and environmental archaeology – and material culture and social agency.
Being a postgraduate student at Exeter is fun, challenging and overall a great experience I would recommend to anyone considering postgraduate study.
There is a postgraduate community in the Archaeology department, we all get on really well and are able to help each other.
The staff are really helpful and understanding so any problems you have, study-wise or anything else, they are always there to lend a hand.
Bioarchaeology: Forensic Anthropology MSc

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/biosciences:
Biosciences at the University of Exeter is a vibrant and rapidly expanding centre for research and teaching across the biological sciences.
Our students join a community of world-leading experts in subjects ranging from molecular biology to cellular and whole organism biology, to conservation, ecology, computational biology and biological chemistry.
As a highly research-active discipline, we are in an excellent position to offer postgraduate programmes focusing on a range of discipline-specific and generic skills, designed to enhance your employability.
We enjoy superb links with key external stakeholders such as: The Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (Cefas), Rothamsted Research, the Met Office and Plymouth Marine Laboratory, enabling you to benefit from direct links to relevant employment opportunities within the UK and abroad.
We provide state-of-the-art facilities for our students: from next-generation DNA sequencing and proteomics facilities, to an enhanced bioimaging suite as well as research laboratories, greenhouses and controlled environment rooms.
Some academic members of Biosciences work in the interdisciplinary Living Systems Institute (LSI) at Exeter and the Environment and Sustainability Institute (ESI) at Penryn.
The LSI pioneers novel approaches to understanding a broad spectrum of diseases and how they can be better diagnosed.
The £30m ESI leads research into solutions to problems of environmental change, improving people’s relationships with the environment.
"Camping in the wild African landscape was a unique and intimate experience; we made incredible friendships and lasting memories.
It was a life-changing trip!
The academics here have amazing connections.
I feel lucky to have the opportunity to meet many of these important people in small classroom settings."
Read more from Cody
Cody
MSc Conservation and Biodiversity

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/business:
Master your future in management
Explore Business and Management at our triple accredited Business School, taught by internationally respected academics who are at the forefront of their research.
You’ll learn subjects across business and management such as entrepreneurship, international business, marketing, human resource management.
Our strong links to organisations across the private, public and not-for-profit sectors, and with professional organisations such as the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development (CIPD), you can be sure that your Masters degree will be widely recognised in today’s global marketplace.
You’ll study with people from all around the world who come from a wide range of academic backgrounds, giving you the opportunity to expand your network and learn about working with, and doing business with other cultures.
We offer research-led teaching combined with practical experiences such as field trips and project work, so that you can apply your learning to real world scenarios.
Upon graduation, you’ll have the skills and knowledge to pursue the career you want, wherever in the world you choose to work.
I decided to study on this programme because I knew very little about business and wanted to expand my knowledge whilst also learning about multiple business areas.
I have studied modules in strategy, future trends and accounting, which have given me a broad business understanding.
Katharine
Management student
The lecturers on the course are extremely supportive – they are always here to answer any questions or address concerns.
They are also very accommodating to individual circumstances and always find time to meet with students.
Anna

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/classics:
We are one of the largest and most successful departments of Classics and Ancient History in the UK and we offer exceptionally broad expertise across the full range of the traditional fields of classics.
Our academics are all active researchers who consistently attract funding from external sources including Leventis, Leverhulme, the Wellcome Trust and the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
We take an interdisciplinary perspective and have close links to related fields including history, archaeology, philosophy, visual arts, and linguistics.
This unusually wide range means that there is very considerable scope for postgraduate supervision.
We have a reputation for both our high-quality teaching and strong research community: we ensure our excellent research enhances the experience of our students and we provide a stimulating environment for staff and students alike.
I spoke to my lecturers about which postgrad courses in the UK were widely regarded as the best – one of which was Exeter.
Comparatively, the course at Exeter was the most exciting, with a wide range of research interests, and the opportunity to create my own independent study modules as part of my credit.
That’s what I think makes academia at Exeter so special – students are really encouraged to be independent thinkers, and the lecturers are always there to support you in that.
Read more from Yentl
Yentl
Classics and Ancient History MA

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/climatechange:
Find out more about MSc Global Sustainability Solutions
Find out more about MSc Sustainable Development
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has seven contributors from Exeter; more than any other university in the world.
Climate change is acknowledged by scientists, governments, businesses and social, environmental and economic organisations as the greatest challenge of our time.
It presents a fascinating and urgent set of challenges and opportunities for today’s practitioners, policy makers and researchers.
There is a growing demand for knowledge and expertise in all aspects of climate change:
Whether you are looking to launch a career in this fast-moving field or to build on your experience to date, we offer professional postgraduate training to enhance your prospects with:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/computerscience:
Choosing to study Computer Science at Exeter means you’ll learn from teaching that draws directly from our particular research strengths in AI, machine learning, data science, statistical modelling, high performance computing and networks, and cyber-security.
We have designed these programmes to support you in lifelong learning, so you can use your studies to accelerate or redirect your career, or progress into further academic study or a PhD.
As a Computer Science postgraduate student at Exeter, you’ll be welcomed into a tight-knit, friendly department that supports close personal contact between staff and students.
You’ll work in a highly productive and well-organised research environment, with a suite of new teaching and research laboratories in the Harrison Building.
Rich in current research and taught using industry standard software and methods, you can also choose to combine your degree with modules in Strategy, Marketing, Management and Leadership.
"Computer Science at the University of Exeter provides a collaborative and inclusive environment in which students and researchers can advance their knowledge of this dynamic and exciting subject."
Professor Andrew Howes
Head of Computer Science

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/creative:
Gain sound business understanding and knowledge of a variety of sectors including film, TV production, publishing, theatre, museums and art galleries.
Our pioneering programmes draw on Exeter’s strengths in these areas and aim to equip those with a background or interest in the creative industries with the skills they need to succeed.
We are actively engaged in research and innovation projects within the creative industries and beyond.
This includes our Centre for Intermedia and Creative Technology, Centre for Interdisciplinary Film, Centre for Contemporary Performance Practices, The Bill Douglas Cinema Museum, our Creative Dialogues events and our portfolio in the heritage sector.
I completed my degree in BSc Banking & International Finance in Mauritius, following which I had three years of professional experience in Digital Product and Innovation.
After being honoured with a Chevening Scholarship - one of the most prestigious and competitive International scholarships - I was keen to further enhance my skills and experience in innovation and business strategy.
I was particularly attracted to the new and practical approach to learning, which is more of 'learning by doing' which is essential in the actual business world.
My classes are very engaging and interactive and our assignments are practical, which makes us go beyond our comfort zone and explore our potential in different skills and master 360-degree thinking.
Read more from Antish
Antish
MA Creativity: Innovation and Business Strategy

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/datascience:
Gain the technical skills to understand, manage and store large data sets and enjoy the flexibility to apply powerful analytics to data across any area of industry, business or field of research.
You’ll learn subjects across Data Science and Analytics including network analysis, text analysis and machine vision, as well as social contexts, governance and ethical considerations.
Our teaching will help you develop innovative approaches to how we use data to solve problems in modern society, whilst considering the social and technical implications of data science and AI.
You’ll be taught by experts who are active in internationally-recognised scientific research in a range of topics.
This means you get to discuss the very latest ideas, research discoveries and new technologies, becoming actively involved in a research project yourself.
To suit your career aspirations, you also have the opportunity to combine your degree with modules in Strategy, Marketing, Management and Leadership.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/drama:
Drama at Exeter is an internationally renowned centre for practice, research and teaching.
Our teaching grows out of our wide-ranging research interests and we provide a supportive and high quality environment for learning.
All of our practical spaces are for use only by Drama students, giving us a high degree of flexibility.
The Alexander Building was custom-designed for Drama and houses the main reception for students, staff offices, 2 sprung-floored studios, 3 additional studios, 2 seminar rooms, 2 sound studios, meeting rooms, computer suites, workshops and a large costume store.
Our connections span the world and include conservatoires, universities and practice-based institutions.
Our industry links are strong and we invite world leading practitioners and scholars to contribute to the MA.
The course has enabled me to explore new creative possibilities which I have never had access to before.
The lecturers are incredibly supportive and highly knowledgeable practitioners who are passionate about the arts and its future possibilities for you as a student.
Carina
MA Theatre Practice

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ecology:
You may also be interested in:
Dr Sarah Hodge discusses our postgraduate Ecology and Conservation courses.
At the Department of Ecology and Conservation, our degrees are led by some of the UK’s top biologists working in evolution, conservation and ecology, with fieldwork opportunities in the UK and overseas.
Camping in the wild African landscape was a unique and intimate experience; we made incredible friendships and lasting memories.
I've also enjoyed learning from some of the world's top marine conservationists.
The academics here have amazing connections and I feel lucky to have the opportunity to meet many of these important people in small classroom settings.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/economics:
Master your future in Economics
Explore the world of Economics at our triple accredited Business School, taught by internationally respected academics who are at the forefront of their research.
You’ll study not only traditional economic models, but the latest application of economy theory including behavioural and experimental economics, giving you course content that is world-relevant.
Our programmes are intentionally flexible, giving you the opportunity to specialise if you wish.
They are designed to equip you with a deeper understanding of a technical and rigorous subject, as well as a valuable set of personal skills to help you stand out from the crowd.
As a result, our Masters students are highly valued by employers across the globe.
Many of our graduates have gone on to work as professional economists in the public sector, including the UK Government’s Economics Service, the Central Bank of Turkey and the Central Bank of South Korea.
Our teaching also draws upon the internationally rated research undertaken within the department, and the experience of our academics in developing economic policy at organisations such as the Bank of England, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the United Nations.
The biggest highlight so far of studying at Exeter is the appreciation you get when you meet lecturers from last term that still know who you are.
The support you get is fantastic and the lecturers are genuinely interested in what I am doing and how things are going.
Chiara
MSc Economics

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/education:
Education at Exeter
The Graduate School of Education is one of the most diverse and highly regarded schools of education in the country.
We offer a full range of postgraduate programmes comprising research degrees; professional doctorates; a Masters in Educational Research; and full-time and flexible part-time Masters degrees.
We also offer Primary and Secondary PGCE programmes.
We are located on the historic and beautiful St Luke’s Campus and provide excellent support for all our postgraduate students.
This ideal setting is within easy walking distance of both the city centre and the University’s Streatham Campus, where students are encouraged to make use of the additional facilities available to them.
What I enjoy the most about my course is that I not only feel empowered to integrate the arts and creativity into my teaching but I also feel capable to support other teachers on how to do it.
Visits to creative schools, galleries and a school placement have given me interesting ideas on making the arts a part of my curriculum.
Read more from Kelly
Kelly
MA Creative Arts in Education
The MA at the University of Exeter offers a key set of skills that is very relevant in the marketplace today.
By completing a course within education that also incorporates teaching, creativity and technology I can add value immediately.
I love being able to bring into my education topics of interest such as VR and having the opportunity to not only learn the relevant theories of using VR in a classroom but also considering the wider impacts and practical application of using the latest technology and teaching methods.
Read more from Andre
Andre
MA Technology, Creativity and Thinking in Education

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/engineering:
Explore the spectrum of advanced engineering, taught by renowned experts who are active in internationally-recognised scientific research.
Our teaching combines science, creativity and critical thinking to solve significant challenges in society to ensure you graduate with the knowledge and skills of an in-demand engineer.
You’ll have the opportunity to discuss the very latest ideas, research discoveries and new technologies, becoming actively involved in a research project yourself.
To suit your career aspirations, you can also combine your Masters with modules in Strategy and Management, taught by the University of Exeter Business School .
You’ll develop knowledge in both a specialist technology area and in management, particularly in the modern tools and techniques to support the management of a dynamically changing engineering business.
Exeter had everything I was looking for in a University: great reputation of educational excellence, passionate academics and support staff and a friendly, open, collaborative environment.
It also happened to be situated in a really beautiful part of the country, which was an added bonus!
Graduated from MSc Engineering Business Management
Find out further information on our Engineering Facilities web page .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/english:
Our English department has an outstanding reputation and is recognised as one of the best in the country.
We are a world leader for research, with strengths in diverse areas and periods of literature and culture, including particular expertise in American Literature and Culture, Film Studies, Critical Theory, World and Postcolonial Literatures, Medical Humanities, Victorian Studies, Renaissance Studies, Romanticism, Modernism and Creative Writing .
We have outstanding resources and support for projects in Digital Humanities and the study of writing from the South West of England.
With over 150 UK and international postgraduate students and over 70 academic staff, we offer an engaging environment.
The quality of our teaching and supervision is excellent, with student satisfaction amongst the highest in the country.
Having studied BA English Literature at Exeter, I knew I had to stay for my MA.
The lecturers are always passionate about what they are teaching, but most importantly to me, they are always genuinely keen to discuss my own work.
I did my BA dissertation on post-feminism within Taylor Swift and Beyoncé’s music videos.
This year I’ve taken my work on music video even further and have also written on films ranging from Hitchcock to La La Land thanks to the flexible Film Pathway.
In allowing me to pursue my interests, Exeter has helped me reach my full potential.
I want to work in the music industry, and so it is really useful that my course has not only given me skills to take into working life, but has also provided me with the opportunity to craft essays which I can talk about in job interviews.
Studying English Literary Studies (Film Studies Pathway)

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/film:
At the University of Exeter you will have access to world-class university resources and facilities including the innovative Digital Humanities Lab, an audio-visual collection of 12,000 film titles and the world-renowned Bill Douglas Cinema Museum, the biggest film archive in the UK outside of the British Film Institute.
The Film Department at Exeter has very strong industry links; world leading practitioners and scholars are regularly invited to contribute to our MA programmes, and lead Q&A sessions, lectures and workshops.
The University’s campus, people, facilities, lecturers and cohorts were a perfect mix of excellence.
[…] The course increased my confidence and helped me develop the key skills to get into the business side of the industry
MA International Film Business

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/finance:
Explore the world of Finance at our triple accredited Business School, taught by internationally respected academics who are at the forefront of the latest industry trends and have significant industry experience.
Our well-established postgraduate finance programmes include the UK’s very first Masters degree in finance.
Today our teaching combines the latest academic theories with practical skills.
You’ll gain hands-on experience to develop your analytical skills and understanding of financial databases including Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg and Capital IQ, enabling you to launch a dynamic career in a wide range of sectors.
Many of our programmes also offer you the opportunity to study for professional qualifications alongside your Masters degree with the CFA® Institute, the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment, ACCA, The Chartered Institute of Taxation or the Chartered Banker Institute.
This combined with our strong links to professional firms and institutions, means your Masters degree will be widely recognised in today’s competitive global marketplace.
You can also take advantage of our career mentoring scheme, influential networking events, and guest lectures supported by professional financial experts to help build and sustain your career.
Upon graduation, you will join an influential, global network that will stay with you for life.
Business School staff are all really helpful, particularly my tutor Dr Rajesh Tharyan who teaches Finance with a clear structure and patience.
He explains new things in a way that students can easily understand.
Xingyu
MSc Finance and Management

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/forensics:
Forensic archaeology, often in tandem with forensic ecology, is a vital tool in both justice and the study of human activity, blending archaeological and ecological methods with forensic investigation to assist in criminal, historical, and human rights cases.
Forensic archaeologists use a range of techniques to locate and excavate clandestine graves, recover human remains, and identify key evidence at body deposition sites.
In criminal contexts, they help law enforcement uncover and document burial sites, analyse soil disturbances, and map crime scenes to maintain the integrity of evidence.
Forensic ecology enhances this process by providing critical information about environmental factors such as soil composition, plant growth, and insect activity, which help determine the post-mortem interval and verify whether bodies or objects have been moved.
This ecological insight is particularly valuable in dating and analysing disturbed sites, aiding forensic archaeologists in reconstructing events and environmental changes at crime scenes.
In human rights investigations, forensic archaeologists and ecologists collaborate to recover remains from mass graves linked to genocide or war crimes, often working with forensic anthropologists to assist with victim identification.
Forensic archaeology and ecology are also essential in historical studies, examining ancient burial practices, battlefield sites, and historical murder cases.
Techniques like ground-penetrating radar, magnetometry, and stratigraphic analysis allow archaeologists to pinpoint areas of interest and understand buried evidence prior to excavation.
Challenges in forensic archaeology and ecology include difficult working conditions, the urgency of complex investigations, and the complications of working with decomposed remains.
Notable cases showcasing the significance of these fields include the excavation of mass graves from the Bosnian War and the discovery of King Richard III’s remains in a Leicester car park, both of which highlight the fields' impact on solving contemporary crimes and historical mysteries.
Our MSc in Forensic Investigations equips students with scientific and investigative skills to assess crime scenes, consider environmental forensics, and perform a range of evidence recovery techniques.
The course integrates theoretical learning with practical laboratory and fieldwork experiences.
This interdisciplinary approach prepares graduates for a wide variety of jobs in sectors such as forensic science, crime scene investigation, heritage management and conservation as well as areas within the medical field.
Our MSc in Bioarchaeology: Forensic Anthropology offers in-depth training in forensic anthropology within archaeological contexts, combining scientific methods to analyse human remains.
Students develop skills in osteology, isotopic analysis, and pathology, equipping them for careers in forensic science or heritage sectors.
With a mix of lab-based learning and fieldwork opportunities, the course is ideal for those seeking expertise in forensic anthropology and understanding past human behaviours.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/geography:
Geography at the University of Exeter offers a lively, thriving and innovative research environment at campuses in Cornwall and Exeter, We attract funding from research councils, charities, the UK government and industry, and we enjoy strong links with national and international research projects.
Our research groups span the breadth of geography: cultural and historical geographies; environment and sustainability; nature, materialities and biopolitics; space, politics and society; environmental change; and landscape and ecosystem dynamics.
We are engaged in a number of interdisciplinary areas of research at the University, including climate change and sustainable futures, environmental sciences and earth system science.
You can choose from a range of innovative taught programmes relevant to 21st-century challenges that provide a fantastic platform for future employment.
The Streatham Campus in Exeter is home to the £3.7m Sediment Research Facility, which provides additional laboratories, experimental facilities and a wide range of state-of-the-art analytical equipment.
The Penryn Campus in Cornwall is home to the University’s Environment and Sustainability Institute (ESI) - an interdisciplinary centre leading cutting-edge research into the impacts of environmental change and the mitigation and management of its effects.
You will be part of a vibrant postgraduate community benefiting from quality research-inspired teaching and access to outstanding facilities.
“I really enjoy the ability for us to get hands on experience within the actual sustainability job market itself, and the fact that this course is empowering us not only to learn about sustainability challenges, but giving us the right tools to tackle them.
My biggest highlight so far has probably been meeting with the external partner organisations, and seeing just how many large companies are keen to work with us on this course!”
“My favourite thing about the programme is the research skills that I have acquired in project designing.
I’ve also really enjoyed the field trip to Newlyn fish market.
We learnt about the various fish and how they are caught, challenges that fishermen face on the coast and the limited quotas placed on them.”

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/geology:
Choosing to study Geology at Exeter means you’ll learn from teaching that draws directly from our particular research strengths in mining and minerals engineering, applied geology and mineralogy, surveying and renewable energy.
Our Geology programmes are taught at the internationally established Camborne School of Mines , a combined mining school and geoscience department.
Based at the University’s £100 million Penryn Campus in Cornwall, Camborne School of Mines has an international reputation for research and teaching related to the understanding and management of the Earth's natural processes, resources and the environment.
We have designed our programmes so that you graduate with the skills to undertake professional employment in the civil, environmental, engineering geology, geotechnical engineering and mining-related industries.
Studying at our Penryn campus, you’ll have access to our outstanding research environment with state-of-the-art analytical facilities and laboratories.
I only really considered Exeter when looking at Masters programmes; if you’re going to be doing exploration geology Exeter is the only place to go to do it.
This is especially true given the lecturers at Exeter’s Penryn Campus, they spend their time not only lecturing but also working as industry consultants so you are getting the best specialist knowledge in the sector.
One of my favourite things about the course is probably how applied and industry focused it is.
For example, we get to use actual data sets from industry so nothing is fictional and when you’re doing your work you’re working on real life scenarios.
I think is really important as when you come to do it as a job later on there are no surprises as you’ve already done it in your masters.
This makes the course really employability focused and helps you stand out against other graduates as you’ve worked so closely with industry and done a course that isn’t offered anywhere else.
I love how what you do during your Masters truly prepares you for what you’d be doing day-to-day as an exploration geologist.
I love living in Cornwall.
Being in Cornwall is particularly great for this course it has a strong mining history and so it’s brilliant from an educational point of view.
You’re also close to so many amazing beaches and if you like sea and beaches you are in no better place.
You can easily go out for walks you’ve got whole South West coastal path to explore.
Despite not being a big city there’s still a big student community and aside from exploring the coast you’re not going to be short of things to do.
Exploration Geology MSc (2019-2020)
Studying in Cornwall has been really good.
The facilities are great, there are several different types of labs, a lot of space for learning and loads of learning resources.
The lecturers are always really helpful, supportive and there when you need them.
The MSc Mining Geology programme has been really good as it covers all the aspects of all the different types of Geology.
I’ve been able to learn a broad range of skills and the field trips have been great.
Read more from Omolara
Omolara
Mining Geology MSc
Scholarships available
The CSM Trust is delighted to offer six £5,000 scholarships for exceptional students enrolling in 2024 on a mining or geology related course.
The scholarships will be awarded at the panel’s discretion to the applicants considered most deserving of the award.
The successful candidates will be expected to take part in activities to promote studying mining or geology at the University of Exeter.
Two scholarships worth £26,500 each are available to students who have had an application accepted to one of the Camborne School of Mines MSc programmes for September 2024 entry.
This scholarship programme is funded by a generous donation from London Metal Exchange (LME).
As part of the scholarships the successful candidates will have the opportunity to undertake mentoring with LME staff and to work with LME on their dissertation project.
These scholarships will enable up to two talented UK students studying on the MSc Exploration Geology programme to become distinguished Richard Osman Scholars.
The successful candidates will receive a bursary covering their tuition fees in full, and a generous stipend of £12,000 toward living costs.
Find out more about this scholarship .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/medicine:
Our Postgraduate Health and Medicine courses will equip you with the advanced knowledge and skills needed to enact meaningful change in any setting you choose to work in.
Our courses have been designed for NHS staff and other medial and healthcare professionals to positively impact the delivery of care.
As healthcare systems are constantly evolving, practitioners need to be able to identify challenges and provide evidence-based solutions.
Our graduates develop the skills needed to critically analyse situations using a wide variety of information and data while considering the wider impacts of changes to medical and health delivery.
We are proud of our vibrant and active student community that is supported by excellent pastoral and academic staff with wide-ranging opportunities to develop interdisciplinary and vocational skills.
Our degrees are highly flexible, allowing you to tailor your studies to your career ambitions.
Students also have the opportunity to specialise in Global Health, Nutrition or Public Mental Health on our Master of Public Health (MPH), and Global Health, Pandemics or Antimicrobial Resistance on our MSc Environment and Human Health , or in Cold Environments, Hot Environments or Humanitarian Relief on our MSc Extreme Medicine (Distance) .
We offer a range of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses with the aim to improve health outcomes in the region and to facilitate real change in the quality of care.
Our range of expertise means health professionals can continue to learn and develop with us over their careers.
This includes our Genomic Medicine (online) , which NHS staff can apply for funding from Health Education England to undertake modules on.
For more information on all our CPD opportunities visit our dedicated CPD page .
The MSc in Environment and Human Health from Exeter University has been very instrumental in setting me on the right path to achieve my aspirations.
Within a short time, the skills I honed during the programme have been brought to bear on a wide range of activities in Ghana and beyond.
"I joined the MSc Environment and Human Health programme at University of Exeter with the aim of acquiring a relevant qualification and skills needed to work in public health and science communication.
My expectations were met as we were exposed to cutting-edge information from world-class teachers and researchers from University of Exeter Medical School, European Centre of Environment and Human Health, and other institutions.
"The course explored global health issues such as climate change, air pollution, environmental sustainability and population health, through an ecological lens.
This enriched my worldview with respect to how different social determinants influence health and wellbeing at individual and population levels.
In addition we were introduced to various tools and frameworks for health research, data analysis, science communication, and academic writing.
Classroom work was enriched by hands-on activities and field visits.
"The environment in Cornwall is conducive for studies; you have the opportunity to be taught by highly-qualified lecturers, interact with very brilliant colleagues from diverse backgrounds, and take control of your intellectual interests.
The social environment is equally intriguing as the year is loaded with activities from both the university and local communities.
Though I missed home at times, I always cherished the special experience to be in such a truly unique part of the UK.
Read more from Gameli
Gameli

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/history:
As one of the largest History departments in the UK, we offer a depth and breadth of subject expertise rarely matched by other institutions with excellent access to top academics in specialist fields.
Within the department we have experts in Early Modern Studies (1500-1800), Medieval Studies, Medical History, Maritime Historical Studies, Imperial and Global History, and Violence and Conflict.
These link to our six dedicated research centres and allow you to choose a specific pathway in one of these areas or you can take a selection of modules from across the board.
Public History and Heritage are also great strengths of our department.
The university Library has extensive holdings, audio-visual collections and manuscripts in our Special Collections, and the city itself offers many opportunities with both Exeter Cathedral Library Archives and the Devon Heritage Centre containing further significant manuscripts, documents and early printed books.
Having completed my undergraduate degree here, I already knew how fantastic the history department was and it was the obvious choice for my postgraduate studies.
Having an interest in medical history, I was particularly inspired by that pathway option and the new and exciting modules focusing on public history and digital humanities.
What I have enjoyed most about my MA has been the opportunity to really tailor my assessments and research to my own areas of interest and the support in doing this.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/law:
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree or above (or equivalent).
There’s no requirement to have studied law prior to joining one of our courses, we welcome students from any academic background.
Skills and experience from other fields can be valuable assets, whether you aim to pursue a career in law, business and finance, technology, the public sector, entrepreneurship, media and communications, education, human resources, or with non-profit and international organisations.
Our courses are designed to provide you with the essential knowledge and skills to succeed after graduation.
Thanks to an innovative collaboration with The University of Law (ULaw), students can also study one of their courses at our Streatham Campus in Exeter.
Law at Exeter
The Law School has a worldwide reputation for excellence in teaching and research, attracting academics, visiting lecturers and students from across the globe.
As a postgraduate student at the School you will be part of a diverse and dynamic community.
Our researchers' specialist interests collectively encompass a wide range of legal fields.
Our academic staff come from a number of different jurisdictions and work in a breadth of legal fields from the historical and theoretical to the socio-legal.
The University is pleased to be able to offer a variety of funding awards to those wishing to undertake postgraduate study in addition to excellent facilities and a friendly and supportive environment in which to study.
Our postgraduate students gain excellent employment prospects and we are able to benefit from extremely good relations with members of the legal profession regionally, nationally and internationally.
We retain strong links with our alumni, many of whom occupy senior positions in the legal field in the UK and overseas.
I chose the University of Exeter because of its great global university ranking.
The courses here are really interesting and the tutors are excellent.
During my time here I have attended some interesting conferences that were suggested by my tutors and they have been really useful for my studies and have broadened my vision of Law.
The University of Exeter is not like other universities, it is a beautiful location without the noise of a big city.
It is a great place for study.
You won’t regret it if you choose it!
Read more from Xiaodong
Xiaodong
LLM

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mathematics:
Mathematics at the University of Exeter
Explore a wide variety of mathematics covering pure mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics and computation, and have the opportunity to explore applications in high-impact fields including climate, healthcare and industrial challenges.
As a Mathematics postgraduate student at Exeter, you’ll be welcomed into a tight-knit, friendly department that supports close personal contact between staff and students.
Our teaching maintains a firm focus on career-orientated postgraduate training, and our graduates are well placed for success in this exciting field.
In many of our mathematics programmes you’ll undertake an independent research project to explore your interests in greater depth, with the support of an academic, where you can focus on or contribute to current research.
We ensure that our programmes support the needs of the sector and work closely with a professional advisory group that includes senior managers from companies such as IBM .
We also maintain an excellent reputation for our research in pure mathematics, applied mathematics and statistics and enjoy active collaboration with the Met Office in Exeter.
The staff are really friendly and the lecturers are really approachable.
The course is really interesting and whatever topic I have wanted to learn, we have done at Exeter.
My course will help me to find a job because the modules have been so broad I will have so many transferable skills and the links with industry are great.
Being an international student is fun, I've met a lot of other international students and people are really approachable which has meant I’ve made a lot of friends and met people to study with, as well as practising my English skills.
Read more from Yunice
Yunice
MSc Mathematics

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/communications:
Over the last two decades, developments in digital communication technologies have profoundly transformed personal and professional lives around the globe.
This has led to expanding roles for communications graduates in all types of areas: business, education, science, the culture industries, and the third sector, to name but a few.
No longer the preserve of radio, television and advertising, every organisation now requires communications professionals, content creators, and platform managers.
This is why our Communications department continues to expand its portfolio, offering Masters courses in Media and Communications, as well as Social Media Management and Social Media and Digital Marketing.
Our courses introduce students to the latest methodologies, theories, concepts, and research trends in this vibrant interdisciplinary field.
They offer a range of theory-driven modules alongside practice-based modules, which inform and speak to each other.
In doing so, it provides the advanced level foundation for the next generation of communications professionals, media researchers, and educators.
Our courses are taught by leading researchers with specialisms in areas including Critical Media Studies, Critical Data Studies, Infrastructure Studies, Video Games Studies, and Internet Studies, and who approach the study of Media and Communications from a variety of empirical and critical-interpretative methodological vantage points.
Our Modern Languages department has also launched a series of courses aimed to provide students with the key skills needed in intercultural communication.
Students can specialise in International Business, Education or Migration, and apply the skills they’ve learned into their current role or across a variety of careers.
Career paths include NGOs, multinational companies or international commercial enterprises, government and other corresponding national bodies, including consultancy, or multilingual schools and universities.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/mining-engineering:
Mining Engineering at the University of Exeter
Our mining engineering programmes are taught at the internationally established Camborne School of Mines , a combined mining school and geoscience department.
During your studies you can enjoy access to  specialist analytical and research facilities, including geochemical and mineralogical labs, surveying equipment, GIS software, a materials engineering and physical separation lab.
You’ll also benefit from our strong links with industry and excellent relationships with companies from across the globe, such as Rio Tinto , BHP Billiton , First Quantum , Glencore and many more.
To boost your employability and practical skills, we offer an extensive range of fieldwork opportunities where you can visit a variety of mining sites throughout your studies.
The best part about this course is how diverse and practical it is.
The facilities are world-class and you get to learn from the reputable professors who have written most of the text books we learn from and are teaching us things they are currently researching.
The support from my lecturers has been great, they have an open-door policy which means we can always pop in and ask them anything we need to.
I have worked in many places around the world and have yet to visit a country where I could not find at least one CSM graduate.
In fact, there are normally several and they can often be found in influential positions.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/languages:
We are one of the UK’s leading centres for teaching and research in French, German, Hispanic Studies, Italian, Russian, Interdisciplinary Studies, Medieval Studies, Film Studies, and Sexuality and Gender Studies.
We offer excellent MA programmes and are home to a Foreign Language Centre with modern language-learning facilities.
Our research and teaching expertise spans the fields of literature, linguistics, film studies, history, philosophy, visual arts, sexuality and gender, from the Middle Ages to the present day, as well as literary and specialist translation.
All teaching is directly related to our research.
We attach particular importance to the quality of research supervision and training along with the integration of postgraduates into our academic and research community.
It was a big decision to quit my job and move to another country for further study.
I chose Exeter because it is one of the best universities in the UK for Modern Languages.
The Translation Studies course is a combination of theory and practice.
All the lecturers are professional and supportive and as well as lectures there are language-specific workshops where tutors give advice on translation in specific topics.
One of our modules The Translation Profession has given me experience of using CAT (computer-assisted translation) tools, which are very useful whether you want to be a freelancer or work for a translation company.
Read more from Xueyu
Xueyu
Translation Studies MA

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/philosophy:
The Philosophy department is one of the  foremost centres for the philosophy of biology in the world.
It offers excellent training in rigorous thinking, asking some of the questions most fundamental to human life.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/physics:
Physics at the University of Exeter oﬀers a vibrant, world-class environment for students interested in a diverse array of problems in the physical sciences.
Physics is a global activity that cuts across both academia and business.
Our research seeks both to uncover the fundamental laws that govern natural phenomena on all scales, and to apply these to the understanding of real-world problems.
Our research encompasses a broad range of experimental, computational, and theoretical physics, with research groups in electromagnetic and acoustic materials, quantum systems and nanomaterials, biomedical physics, and astrophysics.
We also work closely with non-academic partners, including the electronics and defence industries, as well as the Met Office and NHS Trusts.
Studying a Masters in Physics at the University of Exeter will allow you to build on your undergraduate studies and to develop as a physicist, to prepare you for a career as a researcher either within a university, or working for an industrial or national research laboratory, as some examples.
Studying at an advanced level will expand your knowledge of Physics.
You will gain experience in topics linked to research that is unique to the University.
You’ll be introduced to the latest research and ideas, and will complete a substantial personal research project with support from staff within our four research groups.
Housed in a dedicated building, you’ll have access to facilities including clean rooms, a helium liquefier, water tanks, amplified ultra-fast laser systems, imaging suite, observatory and computer labs.
You’ll also benefit from established links with departments across the University, including the Living Systems Institute, Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, and the Environment and Sustainability Institute.
"Our MSc is a flexible programme that is designed for those wishing to pursue a career as a professional scientist, taught by internationally leading researchers who are actively working in your chosen field.
Students are empowered to broaden and deepen their knowledge through studying a range of topics, choosing from a wide range of taught modules to tailor a course that matches that their career aspirations with four specialised pathways in Astrophysics, Biomedical Physics, Electromagnetic and Acoustic Materials, Quantum Systems and Nanomaterials.
The advanced research project provides skills in research planning, execution and reporting, and benefit from access to our world-leading research facilities."
Read more from Prof Julian Moger
Prof Julian Moger
Chair in Biophotonics

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/politics:
We have one of the best Politics departments in the UK and offer programmes at our Streatham Campus in Exeter.
We excel in research and teaching across all the main areas of political science including international relations, political theory, public policy and administration, comparative politics, public opinion and political behaviour.
Research income has grown with major awards from the Economic and Social Research Council, the European Commission and Leverhulme Trust.
The department's strong research culture is reflected in our regular seminars and workshops and visits from internationally renowned scholars.
You will join a thriving postgraduate community with over 80 Masters students each year and currently more than 60 PhD students.
I decided to come to Exeter after meeting the faculty here who genuinely care about their students and how we use our time here to prepare for what comes after we graduate.
Exeter also has a great employability program that focusses on preparing students for the job market.
Whatever stage you are at in the process, the career consultants in the Career Zone are always sure to be able to help point you to the resources you need or provide career counseling if you are stuck.
Read more from Serafin
Serafin
MA International Relations

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/psychology:
Degrees online
Psychology at Exeter has over 120 academic, research and clinical training staff and over 500 postgraduate students, including more than 400 students registered on accredited clinical training programmes.
Our staff are recognised internationally for their academic excellence, high-quality research and applied output.
They actively research the areas of psychology they teach, so their expertise feeds directly into our research-led programmes.
We place a strong emphasis on your personal and professional development, as well as academic performance, and are committed to providing a friendly and stimulating intellectual environment.
You will benefit from state-of-the-art learning, teaching and research facilities, including well-equipped workshops, specialist laboratories, an audiovisual recording suite and a dedicated postgraduate computer laboratory.
Members of staff have strong research links with universities in other countries and there is a flourishing international community.
We work in partnership with a variety of public and private sector organisations to ensure our research is relevant to policymakers.
Unlike most other leading departments, we provide postgraduate training and continuing professional development (CPD) courses for clinical psychology and other psychological practitioners at the same site as our PhD and Masters degrees.
"My favourite aspect of the programme is how research-centred it is.
Lectures are given by researchers who are experts in the topics they are teaching and, as part of the research project component of the course, you have the opportunity to be part of the research team and conduct high-quality research of your own."
"Social Psychology is my favourite part!
I am looking forward to doing my research project on social psychology and being supervised by a great supervisor!"
"I have found learning about Advances in Methods and Animal Behaviour the most interesting.
I also did a professional development internship and helped Professor Darren Croft study whale aggression.
Studying Animal Behaviour has prepared me for further study as I have had the opportunity to gain a lot of hands-on experience."

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/publicpolicy:
We are a leading university for teaching in public policy and public administration and offer programmes at our Streatham Campus in Exeter.
Our teaching focuses on giving students skills, knowledge and experience relevant to roles in their future careers or related to their research interests.
Our programmes are taught by leading researchers with expertise specific to what they teach, and who have relationships with a range of public and private organisations both in the UK and internationally.
We have a comprehensive portfolio of programmes in the field of public policy and public administration:
Within each programme, specialist dissertations enable students to focus on particular topics of interest, including in areas where they may want to pursue future careers.
Students can further choose options to develop their qualitative or quantitative analysis skills or to develop both skill sets according to their individual interests.
In addition to these standard Masters programmes, we offer a Systems Thinking Degree Apprenticeship for people already working for an employer, who want to enhance their professional development in the area of systems thinking by pursuing this Level 7 apprenticeship.
When joining our programmes you will become part of a thriving postgraduate community of Masters and PhD students.
The programmes' content is developed to incorporate the latest thinking including drawing on our research projects funded by UK Government, the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), and the European Commission.
Our academic staff also have strong links with organisations who use our research findings including in central and local governments, private organisations, charities and other non-governmental organisations and international bodies.
Studying at Exeter was an unforgettable chapter of my life, filled with growth, inspiration, and cherished memories.
I especially loved working on my dissertation, which was a transformative experience that deepened my understanding of how to create meaningful reforms as a civil servant.
It inspired me to think about how I could contribute to my homeland and left me feeling more confident and capable in my professional abilities.
The skills and knowledge I gained here have been invaluable for my career.
Now, I plan to continue serving my country as a civil servant at the Ministry of the National Economy of Kazakhstan, striving to make a positive impact.
Read more from Ilona
Ilona
MSc Public Policy

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/securitystudies:
We have one of the best Politics departments in the UK and offer a range of security studies courses at our Streatham Campus in Exeter.
We have significant research strengths in international relations and security, with our courses being particularly relevant to students hoping to work in national and international security, for security services and other similar organisations (such as the UK Home Office’s Homeland Security Group, NGOs, aid organisations, international bodies such as the United Nations or other international agencies.
We provide our students with an advanced understanding of global security, by engaging them in the history, theory, methodology and global issues that affect the stability of world order in the 21st Century.
Students have the opportunity to study core issues and traditional thinking and practices around security studies, as well as newer concepts such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) and cyber security.
MA Applied Security and Strategy
MA Applied Security and Strategy is a unique, academically rigorous and professionally focused programme designed to equip you with critical understanding of the theory, history and practice of strategy.
Develop critical decision-making and analytical skills and engage with real-world scenarios through workshops, a field trip and a simulated exercise.
Build a versatile skill set to advance in strategy and security roles and elevate your career.
View the full course details for MA Applied Security and Strategy .
We recognise that many professionals in defence and security, such as those in the Armed Forces, entered their careers without a first degree.
We welcome applications from individuals without a degree who can demonstrate to the Programme Director through their application that they have the requisite experience and academic capability to thrive on the programme.
MA Conflict, Security and Development
Focus on the challenges faced by organisations and government agencies when responding to humanitarian crises, civil wars and international conflict.
Accredited work placement in the  UK or overseas in the development, diplomacy or policy making sectors.
Particularly relevant to students hoping to work for NGOs, aid organisations, international bodies such as the United Nations or other international agencies.
View the full course details for MA Conflict, Security and Development .
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree with 53% or above in their first degree in a relevant subject area.
While we normally only consider applicants who meet this criteria, if you are coming from a different academic background which is equivalent to degree level, or have relevant work experience, we would welcome your application.
*Part-time fees are charged pro rata.
Please see course entry for details.
MSc Cyber Security Analytics
This course is ideal for those with a numerate degree and an interest in cyber security, data analytics, or both, and does not require a computing background.
Taught through a collaboration between Computer Science, the Business School, and the Law School at the University of Exeter, it also includes input from industry experts and links to the local cyber security community.
You'll explore how to manage security risks using data analytics, develop secure systems, and examine broader issues such as human factors, cyber law, and virtual currency.
View the full course details for MSc Cyber Security Analytics .
Applicants are required to have at least a 2:1 degree in a strongly numerate subject (e.g.
computer science, mathematics or physics) and must be able to show evidence of good programming ability in a recognised modern computer language.
Applicants may be interviewed by video conference to assess their programming ability and suitability for the course.
The Python programming language is used extensively during this course and applicants with experience in other languages will be asked to learn basic Python before commencing the course.
Investigate and contextualise major events, current crises and global trends with a particular focus on security, international relations theory and foreign policy.
Benefit from small group, interactive teaching, with extra-curricular events (such as stand-alone talks given by policy makers, activists and scholars) that are hugely beneficial by giving added perspective of contemporary world politics.
Ideal for working professionals in governments around the world, NGOs, aid agencies, diplomats, think tanks and other international organisations.
View the full course details for MA International Relations .
MSc Security and Data Science
Learn how to use scientific methods, statistical techniques, and computational methods (such as the use of algorithms, machine learning and artificial intelligence) and processes to gain actionable insights from large, sometimes unstructured and “noisy”, data.
Unique in the market, the course provides students with crucial data skills in relation to security, defence and law enforcement.
Fields with growing demand for experienced professionals.
No previous data science qualifications required.
View the full course details for MSc Security and Data Science.
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree with 53% or above in a social science or humanities subject area (including Business and Management).
While we normally only consider applicants who meet these criteria, if you have a high 2:2 or equivalent, are coming from a different academic background which is equivalent to degree level, or have relevant work experience, we would welcome your application.
Global Executive MBA in Defence and Space
An exciting new leadership course delivered with our Triple-Accredited (EQUIS, AACSB, AMBA) Business School in partnership with University of South Australia and Carnegie Mellon.
This course is aimed at senior professionals with an international perspective working in defence and space.
View the full course details - Global Executive MBA in Defence and Space .
18 months.
See course page for fee information.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/sport:
As a postgraduate student in Public Health and Sport Sciences you will be welcomed into a friendly, intellectually stimulating and highly supportive learning environment.
You’ll benefit from programmes enhanced by the past and current research of our academic staff who collaborate with industry, clinical populations, national and international organisations and professional athletes to advance knowledge within the discipline.
Public Health and Sport Sciences at the University of Exeter consistently ranks as one of the UK’s top sport science departments and maintains an international reputation for excellence in teaching and research, as well as an exceptional track record for student satisfaction.
Recognised for world-leading and internationally excellent research across the discipline (Research Excellence Framework, 2014), all of our teaching staff are active researchers and their work informs public policy on exercise and health.
We also provide scientific support and consultancy services to national and international athletes and teams including Rugby Football Union, UK Athletics, England and Wales Cricket Board and the Football Association.
Take a 360-degree tour of our Sport and Health Sciences facilities
Click and drag to move the camera.
Alumnus Charlie Dean (MSc Sport and Health Sciences, 2015) shares his career journey
"My biggest highlight has been the Paediatric Exercise and Health module, as different consultant physicians ran guest lectures, including cardiologists and endocrinologists."
"As an international student, I love the inclusivity of the cohort, and the welcoming atmosphere.
The St Luke’s Campus exudes a note of antiquity from the outside, yet has state-of-the-art research facilities on the inside.
The labs are bright, clean, well-equipped, and conducive to work in."

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/theology:
Research is at the heart of the Department of Theology and Religion, which attracts a diverse and vibrant group of students from across the world.
Our current research interests and expertise encompass biblical studies, Jewish studies, early Christian history, modern theology, practical and ecumenical theology, ethics, philosophy of religion, the interface between science and religion, and much more.
Postgraduate students in all of these fields are invited to become part of our academic community – in which both discipline-specific and multidisciplinary skills are nurtured and tested, and where the faculty works closely with students to encourage creativity and enable critical thought.
The department places strong emphasis on research-inspired teaching and enjoys an excellent reputation for teaching of the highest quality.
Our academic and administrative support staff are committed to helping you make the most of all that the university offers.
The Theology department has an extremely supportive group of staff and an exciting range of research specialisms.
There are also postgraduate research seminars available to widen interest.
The staff have a great mix of faith backgrounds, which is refreshing and very helpful in terms of an open study environment.
It is small enough to have a supportive, ‘family’ feel but also has an excellent reputation for research and some well-known theologians on staff.
Read more from Catherine
Catherine
Theology MA Graduate

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/into:
The University of Exeter International Study Centre is a rapidly growing network of university-based study centres, offering high quality preparation programmes for students from overseas wishing to study undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in the UK.
The University of Exeter International Study Centre , based on the Streatham Campus, offers courses which can help you achieve the required standards to study your desired postgraduate programme at the University of Exeter.
The Pre-Master’s for Business is designed to provide you with the English study skills and subject knowledge that you need to progress to a postgraduate degree at the University of Exeter’s triple-accredited business school – in just one term.
Students will also study in a welcoming space in the heart of the university’s campus, with tailored 24/7 support.
On top of that, students could also progress to the University of Exeter’s triple-accredited business school, ranked top 10 in the UK for Business, Management and Marketing (The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024).
View the subjects
If you don’t meet the minimum entry requirements for this program, you should apply for the Exeter International Pre-Master’s .
The Exeter International Pre-Masters Programme enhances your subject knowledge, study skills and English ability.
The programme gives students from overseas the skills needed for acceptance onto a University of Exeter Masters programme in over 37 subjects.
You will study English language and communication skills, study skills, and a number of relevant subject and research modules.
The pathway you choose will be dependent on the Masters degree you wish to study at Exeter.
Please follow the link to full information about this pathway on INTO University of Exeter's website.
Our Pre-sessional English courses are designed to improve your English language skills to the standard required for your chosen degree.
Find out more about Pre-sessional English here .
We offer a variety of course lengths, both online and on campus, for degrees beginning in September and January.
If you do not meet the Pre-sessional English entry requirements, the Centre also offers an Academic English course.
This course is offered throughout the year, full details and start dates can be found here .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/accounting/accounting_finance:
Masters applications for 2023 entry are now closed.
Applications for September 2024 will open on Monday 25 September.
Applications are now open for programmes with a January 2024 start.
View our programmes »
Web: Enquire online Phone (UK): 0300 555 6060 Phone (International): +44 (0)1392 723044
A 2:2 with honours or equivalent in Accounting, Finance or related discipline.
Fast Track (current Exeter students)
Programme Director: Chie Min Teng
Learn from experts in the field of sustainable and responsible finance management
ACCA is a globally-recognised qualification that can set you on a path towards a promising career as a finance professional.
Students taking the BEA3022 Auditing module may be eligible for exemption from ACCA’s Audit and Assurance paper.
You may be eligible for exemption from up to 11 CIMA exams upon completion of the MSc Accounting & Finance programme.
Candidates may also offer ACCA papers F1-F9.
We do consider all applications where there is evidence of exceptional performance in modules relevant to the programme of study, significant relevant work experience or professional qualifications such as CFA(R), ACCA, ICAEW, ICAS and CIMA.
In order to apply for the MSc Accounting and Finance, applicants should have passed at least two modules in Financial Accounting at undergraduate level.
This programme is available for 12 months full-time study.
The taught modules will be delivered in the first two terms while the dissertation modules (which include teaching sessions) will be delivered from June to September.
The programme in its entirety runs from September to September and is University-based.
120 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules.
Note: Teaching sessions for BEAM068, BEAM079 and BEFM027 will be delivered from June to September
a Students must choose one of either BEAM079 or BEFM027
b Students must choose 60 credits from BEAM052, BEAM102, BEAM103 or BEAM104 to gain a with ‘Sustainable Finance’ Pathway.
Sustainable Finance pathway
This pathway allows you to select specific modules that will allow you to graduate in MSc Accounting and Finance with Sustainable Finance.
The Sustainable Finance pathway will equip you to embed green and sustainable finance principles and practice into your advice, analysis, actions and decision.
The finance industry is increasingly recognising the importance of integrating sustainability considerations into decision-making processes and companies, investors, and regulators are seeking professionals who possess both financial expertise and knowledge of sustainable practices.
This pathway will provide you with specialist skills in this area.
You will learn from research expertise developed within the Exeter Sustainable Finance Centre , which will introduce you to cutting-edge theory and practice in sustainable and responsible finance.
Leading academics actively engaged in research on climate finance, environment and sustainability will deliver these modules, which are designed to give insight into theory that has been important in shaping agendas relating to global sustainability.
Students must study 60 credits from:
£ 19,900 full-time
£ 32,300 full-time
For more information on scholarships and other financial support, please visit our scholarships and bursaries page .
We are pleased to offer University of Exeter alumni beginning a standalone taught Masters degree (eg MA, MSc, MRes, MFA, LLM, PGCert, PGDip) or research degree (eg MPhil, PhD) with us a scholarship towards the cost of their tuition fees.
These scholarships are worth 20% of the first year tuition fee for students enrolling on a postgraduate taught or research programme of study in 2025/26.
Full details can be found here.
*Terms and conditions apply.
Find out more about tuition fees and funding »
This programme is taught using a blended approach with a mixture of accompanying material delivered through our virtual learning platform and in-person teaching sessions.
We deliver knowledge through the accompanying material, and use in-person teaching sessions for discussion and application of what you learn.
There are also hands-on workshops for modules such as coding analytics.
The aim of lectures is to give you information on ideas that are central to the module and to help you in developing your understanding of complex ideas.
Many of the teaching materials for lectures are made available to you electronically to accompany the notes you take during the lecture.
Lectures are given by a range of staff members, including leading professors, who integrate their latest research findings into the teaching that you receive.
Guest lecturers, including members of industry, also contribute to some modules.
Seminars and tutorials involve an in-depth exploration of the issues covered in lectures as well as giving you the opportunity to discuss various concepts and theories and receive feedback on your written assignments.
You will be taught by internationally respected academics who are at the forefront of their research.
We draw upon disciplines across the social sciences and give emphasis to the dynamic nature of enterprise, global connectivity and the management and leadership of the global challenges that lie ahead.
Our research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021.
Accounting at Exeter has a long history of research excellence and we undertake research in a variety of topics.
These topics include taxation, corporate governance and capital markets, to broader sustainability and social accounting.
By choosing to study your degree at the University of Exeter, you’ll benefit from our faculty's research strengths in sustainable development, the implications of accounting in the wider context, and other contemporary areas in accounting and finance.
Our research is driven by the understanding that accounting continues to play a fundamental role in organisations and society.
As a result, many of our inspiring academics are regularly invited to advise policy-makers at institutions including H.M.
Revenue and Customs, International Accounting Standards Board, and the Bank of England.
Your research questions for both of this programme’s dissertations will be based on contemporary topics and issues faced by organisations and society.
This will give you the opportunity to engage in research that could have an impact, which could lead to you undertaking a PhD and publishing in quality journals.
In particular, some classes involve the application of data processing software which is an important skill to gain in this era of Big Data.
This Masters degree is designed to prepare you for a successful career, wherever in the world you plan to work.
We’ll prepare you for your career by teaching you advanced communication and technical skills, team-working and independent research, project-management and the very latest specialist knowledge.
An MSc in Accounting and Finance will enable you to develop the professional and financial skills and subject expertise that will make you a valuable asset from day one of your career.
Global demand for accountants and financial managers means you can compete across a variety of services in a huge range of sectors and businesses, from vast multi-nationals to small and medium enterprises, public sector organisations and charities.
By carefully selecting the research topic for your dissertation and your optional modules such as derivatives, investment analysis, banking or international financial management, you can develop a specialisation to enhance your employability.
Graduates can look forward to working in a diverse range of roles including:
Our Careers & Employability team will help you identify your career path and support your route to a fulfilling global career.
Spend your first year at Exeter and a second year at another world-class international institution, resulting in two Masters degrees and the opportunity to expand your knowledge even further.
We offer a fantastic Double Degree option with:
For more information on Double Degrees and other postgraduate study abroad opportunities, visit the Business School’s Study Abroad webpages.
View all Accounting courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/anthropology/anthrozoology:
MA Anthrozoology
Professor Samantha Hurn Web: Enquire online Phone: 0300 555 6060 (UK) +44 (0)1392 723192 (non-UK)
2:2 Honours degree
Programme Director: Professor Samantha Hurn
82% of our research is internationally excellent
Based on research rated 4* + 3* in REF 2021.
Our research in Sociology, Philosophy, Anthropology and Criminology was returned to this UoA.
Internationally recognised for work in philosophical anthropology and the sociology of culture
Optional residential module
Candidates must satisfy the general admissions requirements of the University of Exeter.
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree or above in any discipline from the arts, social sciences, humanities, biological/natural sciences, business or education are considered, plus related professional qualifications.
While we normally only consider applicants who meet these criteria, if you are coming from a different academic background which is equivalent to degree level, or have relevant work experience, we would welcome your application.
Also, as this is a specialist and multi-disciplinary programme, students who do not meet the general admissions requirements but who have substantial professional or personal experience which is directly related to the programme will be considered.
Students who wish to be considered on the basis of professional or personal experience should submit a detailed personal statement outlining their relevant experience.
Students who do not fulfil the general admissions requirements may also be required to attend an interview and/or complete an assignment in order to assess their academic ability.
Please visit our entry requirements section for equivalencies from your country and further information on English language requirements .
The MA in Anthrozoology will be of interest to anyone who would like to investigate the many and varied ways in which humans perceive, engage, compete and co-exist with non-human animals in a range of cultural contexts.
The distance learning MA Anthrozoology is especially relevant in terms of Continual Professional Development for individuals who are involved with the care of non-human animals in a professional capacity (e.g.
vets, veterinary nurses/technicians, animal trainers, dog wardens, zoo keepers, conservationists, charity workers etc.), as well as for students who have completed social science undergraduate degrees or who have a science background and would like to expand their research interests into the social sciences.
The distance learning format is sufficiently flexible to enable you to fit it in around your existing professional and personal commitments.
Programme Director, Professor Samantha Hurn, is the author of a core textbook on anthrozoology.
Core modules (60 credits) and Dissertation (60 credits) to be taken, plus a choice of 60 credits from the following list of optional modules, up to 30 of which may be taken in appropriate modules from other programmes within the institution.
£ 12,500 full-time; £ 6,250 part-time
£ 25,300 full-time; £ 12,650 part-time
This is a distance learning programme, and as a result you will be expected to take responsibility for your own learning.
For every module you will be provided with access to the module page on Exeter's Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) where you will find detailed module descriptions, online discussion forums where you can share your thoughts with fellow students and the module tutors, audio lecture podcasts with accompanying PowerPoint presentations and links to required and supplementary reading material.
You will also be given the opportunity to participate in regular Skype, e-mail or phone tutorials (whichever is most convenient for you) with the module tutor where you can discuss particular issues and seek clarification on points of concern or interest.
Some modules also require you to participate in practical activities including fieldwork.
You will be given plenty of guidance on how to conduct fieldwork and will remain in regular contact with your tutor throughout the fieldwork process (which may be anything from a day to several weeks depending on your chosen project).
You are also required to complete a range of formative (non-assessed) exercises which are designed to monitor your academic development and understanding of the subject matter.
These formative assessments also help you to think through complex theoretical ideas and to plan your assessed assignments.
They also enable you to interact with your peers and module tutors, participate in lively discussions and feedback on the work produced by other students.
These activities create a sense of community between students studying at a distance, and helps to alleviate the sense of isolation which studying away from the campus can create.
The different modules on the MA are assessed by a range of assessment types.
Samantha is a social anthropologist, but her research falls under the umbrella category of anthrozoology or multi-species ethnography (in other words, how humans think about and engage with nonhuman or more-than-human animals in a range of cultural contexts).
She has conducted ethnographic fieldwork across South Africa and Europe looking at issues such as rhino poaching primate conservation and human-wildlife conflict as well as domesticated animals and animals in agricultural production systems.
Samantha is Director of the Anthrozoology as Symbiotic Ethics (EASE) working group .
Mike is a sociologist of science and technology.
He joined SPA in 2017, having previously worked at Lancaster University, Goldsmiths, University of London, and the University of Sydney.
His research interests have included: the relation of everyday life to technoscience; biotechnological and biomedical innovation and culture; the public understanding of/engagement with science; and process methodology.
His teaching has covered such areas as social theory, microsociology, environmental sociology, science and society, animals and society, sociologies of everyday life, and qualitative methodology.
Several modules require you to undertake independent research on a topic of your choosing.
These assignments can be approached strategically, with career aspirations or professional development in mind.
For example, if you wish to pursue a career in the zoo sector, you could focus your assignments on different issues relating to zoos and wildlife parks.
The module Applied Anthrozoology is devoted to the practical application of anthrozoological knowledge.
You will explore the ways in which academic research can and does inform the treatment of animals on the ground, along with the theoretical, ethical and methodological issues associated with such activity.
Current MA Anthrozoology students and graduates work in the following areas:
Many also utilise their anthrozoological knowledge and skills working with a range of organisations (in both paid and voluntary capacities) including the Guide Dogs Association, Battersea Dogs Home, the Blue Cross and the PDSA.
On successful completion of the MA you will have the research skills to pursue a PhD
The College's Employability Officer works with our central Career Zone team to give you access to a wealth of business contacts, support and training, as well as the opportunity to meet potential employers at our regular Careers Fairs.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/anthropology/food-studies-ma:
MA Food Studies
Professor Harry West Web: Enquire online Phone: 0300 555 6060 (UK) +44 (0)1392 723192 (non-UK)
Programme Director: Professor Harry West
Optional work placement or internship
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree or above in any social science*, humanities or environmental studies.
Applications from candidates with relevant professional experience and evidence of good research and writing skills will also be considered.
*Accepted social science subjects include:
This programme will prepare you to understand, critically assess, and practically engage with foodways and food systems.
Our core modules provide interdisciplinary perspectives drawing from fields including archaeology, classics, history, anthropology, sociology, geography, and political economy.
You will survey the historical development of agriculture and food and develop an understanding of its place in the constitution of social identities and institutions.
You will also analyse the workings of mainstream and alternative food systems and food chains as well as studying the challenges and proposed solutions to making foodways and food systems more sustainable.
A wide range of optional modules allows you to develop focused expertise in areas such as sustainable food production, health and nutrition, community development, education, or business and social enterprise.
An optional placement or internship will afford you the opportunity to gain valuable professional experience and to develop networks, while the dissertation will provide you with the chance to acquire expertise in a particular area of study and to develop research and writing skills.
The programme is studied over 12 months (full time) or 24 months (part time) and is University-based throughout the period.
The programme comprises 180 credits in total: taught modules worth 120 credits in total and a supervised dissertation worth 60 credits.
Teaching takes place over two terms (October to May), followed by completion of the dissertation over the summer (June to September).
Each taught module spans one term and is normally taught through seminars, underpinned by reading and essay assignments.
The taught element consists of core modules, directed options and free options.
120 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules
You may choose either the 15 credit or the 30 credit version of each module, you cannot choose both.
Our flexible programme enables you to choose either a specific pathway or a selection of modules, which might be at a much later date than date of entry to the MA Food Studies.
All students graduate with a Masters in Food Studies, but if you elect to specialise, you will have one of the following pathways named in your degree title:
This pathway allows you to focus study on the social, cultural and historical dimensions of food and foodways.
Modules fulfilling compulsory requirements must include: either the 15 or 30 credit version of Food and Agriculture in Historical Perspective; and either the 15 or 30 credit version of Food, Body and Society.
Your dissertation will also focus on a theme in the area of Food, Society and Culture.
This pathway allows you to focus study on food systems, alternative food networks and sustainability.
Modules fulfilling compulsory requirements must include: either the 15 or 30 credit version of Food System, Alternative Food Networks and Ethical Consumption; and  either the 15 or 30 credit version of Food and Sustainability: Economy, Society and Environment.
Your dissertation will also focus on a theme in the area of Food Systems and Sustainability.
Core teaching takes place over the first two terms, leaving the third for your dissertation.
Research-centred teaching is at the heart of the programme.
Teaching is done in small seminar groups, through individual presentations and round table discussions of common readings.
Some optional modules include practical work combined with reading.
Students have the opportunity to engage in a substantial piece of research into a topic of their choosing through the dissertation module.
You will be assessed through coursework which will vary depending on the modules you choose, as well as the completion of a dissertation.
Harry is a socio-cultural anthropologist with expertise in political anthropology and the anthropology of food, farming and agrarian society.
He has conducted research in Africa, as well as in Europe and North America.
He is currently working on food, heritage and memory, with a focus on artisan cheesemaking.
He is Co-Director of the Centre for Rural Policy Research , and Coordinator of the Exeter Food Network .
Celia’s work focuses on political-economic change in Britain from the perspective of grassroots, community groups and engages with themes of everyday politics, mutual aid and care.
She has conducted long-term ethnographic fieldwork with urban, grassroots food co-ops to explore their everyday practices and responses to the changes taking place around them ranging from neoliberal reform to austerity and covid-19.
Celia is co-convenor of the Association of Social Anthropologists’ Anthropology of Britain Network .
Matt’s research largely focuses on understanding influences on and impacts of farm household behaviour.
In particular, his main interests relate to the role of farm households in the management of the countryside, for example, through exploring the impact of CAP reform; attitudes towards agri-environmental policy; and the environmental and social impacts of agricultural restructuring.
Beyond agriculture and the environment, other research interests include the design and impact of rural development initiatives and, more broadly, the social sustainability of rural communities.
He is Editor of the International Journal of Agricultural Management.
Depending upon your interests and career objectives, you may go on to conduct doctoral research, or you may find employment in:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/magic-occult-science:
MA Magic and Occult Science
Programme Director Abla Oudeh Mahmoud Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 723192
Programme Director: Dr Emily Selove
Home to Europe's most important research collection on the Arab world
Develop transferable skills, specialist knowledge and research skills through interdisciplinary teaching
Varied graduate careers
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree or above in a social sciences* or humanities discipline.
The MA Magic and Occult Science is a unique programme that allows you to tailor a programme to your own interests by choosing a range of modules within humanities and social sciences, or by specialising in a certain area.
The core module, ARAM251 Esotericism and the Magical Tradition is a team-taught module where students explore key topics including magic in Greece and Rome, occult texts in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, the history of witchcraft, magic in literature and folklore, deception and illusion, and the history of science and medicine, among other key themes.
By housing this program within the Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies, we place the Arabo-Islamic cultural heritage back where it belongs in the centre of these studies and in the history of the “West.” Decolonisation, the exploration of alternative epistemologies, feminism, and anti-racism are at the core of this programme.
Stage 1: 90 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of option modules
45 credits of optional modules chosen from modules offered by the IAIS, including up to 30 credits worth of modules offered outside of the department (also at the UG level) in line with the University’s modularity policy.
This MA is centred around interdisciplinary learning.
You will be taught by active researchers with leading global expertise and will be co-supervised by two supervisors from different disciplines.
Our research-led teaching is combined with practical experiences such as field trips and monthly meetings with our Centre for Magic and Esotericism.
You have the freedom to build your own programme to suit your own interests.
For your personal dissertation you can opt for primarily text-based, historical, or social-science methodologies on the ARAM027 dissertation module (Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies) or employ primarily performative and practice-based methodologies on the DRAM080 dissertation module (Drama Department).
You will conduct original research using our archival materials which include sources for rites and rituals, meanings of belief, Westcountry witchcraft and folklore, along with ancient and Arabic sources.
The Bill Douglas Cinema Museum also has a large collection of books, ephemera and artefacts on the history of magic lanterns, phantasmagoria, optical illusions, photography, Victorian magic and music hall performance, with many items relating to séances and Victorian occult activities.
The Centre for Magic and Esotericism is an interdisciplinary centre exploring topics relating to the history of magic, occult and esoteric literatures using a ground-breaking approach by studying many different cultures and languages all in dialogue with each other.
Emily Selove (PhD 2012, UCLA) is an Associate Professor in Medieval Arabic Language and Literature at the University of Exeter.
She is also the convener of the University of Exeter's Centre for Magic and Esotericism.
Her early research focused on the figure of the uninvited guest (or "party-crasher") in medieval Arabic literature, and especially on the 11th-century work Ḥikāyat Abī l-Qāsim , the subject of her monograph, Ḥikāyat Abī l-Qāsim: A Literary Banquet (Edinburgh University Press, 2016).
She also co-edited and translated this text with Professor Geert Jan van Gelder: The Portrait of Abū l-Qāsim al-Baghdādī al-Tamīmī (Gibb Memorial Trust, 2021).
View staff profile.
Read more from Dr Emily Selove
Dr Emily Selove
Programme Director
You are invited to consider taking Transdisciplinary Collaborations for Creative Futures as an optional module in your course.
It's available in two formats: 15 credits (EFPM838) or 30 credits (EFPM839).
Our Transdisciplinary Collaborations for Creative Futures module will give you the competitive career advantage of understanding how to bring your disciplinary knowledge into active dialogue with students and staff from other disciplines in order to tackle global sustainability challenges.
This module is taught by staff from across the University of Exeter and is grounded in the University's School of Education research, which shows that the best way to tackle complex real-world challenges is to creatively collaborate across disciplines and with stakeholders.
The challenges will come from external University strategic partners, ensuring issues are current, cutting edge and relevant, whilst supporting employability.
The module aims to teach you how to collaboratively, and critically, produce original ideas, and think innovatively about the future through research-based activities, fieldwork and creative workshops that blend the arts, sciences, social sciences, humanities and business.
Using appropriately innovative assessment techniques, the module will equip you to respond to the global complexity and uncertainty that you will inevitably encounter when you graduate.
You will be taught using pedagogical innovations, working in transdisciplinary teams with facilitation through cutting edge Creative Pedagogies and Design Thinking.
This module is particularly appropriate for international students seeking insight into UK business, creative industries and cultural contexts and employment possibilities.
Feedback from students who have taken this module highlights its value and the additional skills it helps them develop:
" This module has changed my perspective and transformed my vision.
I now have a new understanding of how educational processes and practices should be designed so that learners can acquire skills such as problem-solving, collaborative working, critical and creative thinking in a transdisciplinary way.
" - Canan, MEd TESOL
" This module has made me more deeply understand the importance of interdisciplinary cooperation.
This diversity is also a key reason why I chose this course.
I hope to interact with people who have different viewpoints and come from different fields to help me look at problems from various perspectives.
" - Joey, MA Creative Arts in Education
" Taking this module is one of the best things I've done as part of my studies at Exeter.
This is the most exciting and creative course I have ever attended.
" - Linh Le, MEd TESOL
" I would definitely recommend this module, not only can students learn by means of interdisciplinary cooperation through group cooperation, but also can expand the scope of communication, promote international students to know more about local culture, and promote the communication between international students and other students, which is really very good.
" - Sherry, MA Creative Arts in Education
Our MA programme is designed to develop skills to prepare you for a wide range of professions, or further study into PhD level.
You will develop invaluable transferable skills, including creative thinking, analytical thinking, curiosity and lifelong learning, resilience, flexibility and agility, motivation and self-awareness.
This MA can lead you to a diverse range of careers, examples include: teaching, counselling, mentoring, heritage and museum work, work in libraries, tourism, arts organisations, the publishing industry, social justice and environmental think tanks, spiritual and wellbeing guidance, writing and media, the arts, and further research.
The recent surge in interest around topics pertaining to magic and occultism means that many of these professions have experienced a similar surge in demand for this expertise.
Our excellent Career Zone provides invaluable support, advice and access to graduate employers.
Visit the employment and professional development pages for more information, including podcasts and profiles, about the range of support available.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/internationalrelations_arabic:
MA International Relations and Arabic
Programme Director Dr Lise Storm Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 723192
Programme Director: Professor Lise Storm
Masters Excellence Scholarships available
The MA in International Relations and Arabic will equip you with the general research skills, sources and tools relevant to the study of the Middle East, North Africa and the Muslim world in general, and introduce you to a broad range of key theorists whose work has underpinned scholarship in several key fields of study.
You will learn how to make self-conscious choices around your own work and promote forms of theoretically-aware and interdisciplinary work found in some of the most successful research in Arab, Islamic and Middle East Studies.
105 credits of compulsory modules, 65 credits of optional modules.
Option modules can be viewed via the URL below https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=arabislamicstudies
105 credits of compulsory modules, 75 credits of optional modules.
Option modules can be viewed via the URL below Arabic modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=arabislamicstudies
The taught modules on this programme are assessed by a combination of essays, presentations and group work.
Following completion of these in April, you will then be assessed by a 10,000-word dissertation for submission in September.
As a Masters student you can attend regular research seminars held across the College of Social Sciences and International Studies and organised by our research centres.
These are given by academics from Exeter and other Universities in the UK and overseas, as well as guest speakers from the private, public and charity sectors.
The Institute is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities including a computerised language lab, lecture theatres, seminar rooms, lounge, satellite TV for viewing Middle Eastern channels and a gallery for Middle Eastern art exhibitions.
Graduates from this programme may find professional employment in a wide range of sectors both in the UK and internationally.
A comprehensive background in Middle East politics, international relations and Arabic language is relevant to careers in:
The academic skills developed on the MA International Relations and Arabic will enable to you to pursue doctoral study.
The Institute has an international profile for our pioneering regional focus on the Gulf and Arabian Peninsula and expertise in Islamic Studies providing an ideal place in which to undertake an MPhil/PhD.
In addition, the location of this programme within a hub of renowned academia will offer you the possibility of connections, networking opportunities, advice and guidance from others with extensive academic and career-related experience in this field.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/islamicstudiesma:
MA Islamic Studies
Programme Director Professor Sajjad Rizvi Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 723192
Programme Director: Professor Sajjad Rizvi
I enjoy having the freedom to explore a huge range of topics and areas - – there are modules offered on literature, politics, gender studies, language, media and specific conflicts, but with the flexibility to apply those studies to different situations around the world.
The MA Islamic Studies will equip you with the general research skills, sources and tools relevant to the study of the Middle East, North Africa and the Muslim world in general, and introduce you to a broad range of key theorists whose work has underpinned scholarship in several key fields of study.
135 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of option modules
£ 12.500 full-time; £ 6,250 part-time
Following completion of these in April, you will then be assessed by a 15,000-word dissertation for submission in September.
As a Masters student you can attend regular research seminars organised by our research centres.
Gareth has been a regular commentator and adviser on Middle East politics over the last decade.
He lived in pre-regime change Iraq between 1996 and 2001, where he was funded by the UK government to advise the Kurdish leadership.
He served as a Senior Political Adviser to the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq and is a member of the Command Advisory Group of the UK Permanent Joint Headquarters.
He has considerable fieldwork experience in a range of countries in the Middle East and Islamic World, including Iraq, Syria, the Kurdish regions, Morocco, the states of the Gulf, and more recently Afghanistan.
Read more from Professor Gareth Stansfield
Professor Gareth Stansfield
Al-Qasimi Professor of Arab Gulf Studies, Professor of Middle East Politics
A comprehensive background in Islamic Studies is relevant to careers in:
The academic skills developed on the MA Middle East Studies will enable to you to pursue doctoral study.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/kurdishstudiesma:
MA Kurdish Studies
Programme Director Professor Christine Robins Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 723192
Programme Director: Dr Clemence Scalbert-Yucel
The MA in Kurdish Studies will equip you with the general research skills, sources and tools relevant to the study of the Middle East, North Africa and the Muslim world in general, and introduce you to a broad range of key theorists whose work has underpinned scholarship in several key fields of study.
120 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of option modules
As a Masters student you can attend regular research seminars held across the College of Social Sciences and International Studies and organised by our research centres.
The Centre for Kurdish Studies places the Kurds and Kurdistan at the centre of research and teaching activities and focuses particularly on issues of ethnicity, ethnic conflict, cultural production, and memory.
William teaches on the core module Theorizing the Middle East.
His special interests are in the history of colonial North Africa and, more generally, relations between the European and Arab-Islamic worlds from the medieval period to the contemporary world.
He aspires to produce work with and for subaltern communities, particularly in the Maghreb, and also publish widely in historical theory.
Much of his recent work has also been translated into French, Turkish, and Russian.
Read more from Professor William Gallois
Professor William Gallois
Associate Professor of Middle Eastern and Mediterranean History
The academic skills developed on the MA Kurdish Studies will enable to you to pursue doctoral study.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/middleeastpolitics_ir:
MA Middle East Politics and International Relations
The MA in Middle East Politics and International Relations will equip you with the general research skills, sources and tools relevant to the study of the Middle East, North Africa and the Muslim world in general, and introduce you to a broad range of key theorists whose work has underpinned scholarship in several key fields of study.
You will learn how to make self-conscious choices around your own work and promote forms of theoretically-aware and interdisciplinary work found in some of the most successful research in Politics, Arab, Islamic and Middle East Studies.
150 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules
Option modules can be viewed via the URLs below Arabic modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=arabislamicstudies Politics and International Relations modules https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=politics
60 credits of compulsory modules, 120 credits of optional modules
As a Masters student you can attend regular research seminars organised by our research centres.
A comprehensive background in Middle East politics and international relations is relevant to careers in:
The academic skills developed on the MA Middle East Politics and International Relations will enable to you to pursue doctoral study.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/middleeastpolitics:
MA Middle East Politics
The academic skills developed on the MA Middle East Politics will enable to you to pursue doctoral study.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/middleeaststudiesma:
MA Middle East Studies
Programme Director: Dr Mustafa Baig
I enjoy having the freedom to explore a huge range of topics and areas – there are modules offered on literature, politics, gender studies, language, media and specific conflicts, but with the flexibility to apply those studies to different situations around the world.
The MA in Middle East Studies will equip you with the general research skills, sources and tools relevant to the study of the Middle East, North Africa and the Muslim world in general, and introduce you to a broad range of key theorists whose work has underpinned scholarship in several key fields of study.
90 credits of compulsory modules, 90 credits of optional modules
Option modules available can be viewed via the URL
https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/modules/?prog=arabislamicstudies
I’ve always been interested in postgraduate study but I just didn’t think it was financially feasible which is why the Global Excellence scholarship was great for me.
When this opportunity came through for a fully funded year-long Masters in a well-respected institution, it was hard to turn down.
Melissa
As a Masters student you can attend regular research seminars held across the College of Social Sciences and International Studies and organised by our research centres .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/mideastmres:
MRes Middle East Studies
Programme Director Dr Ahmed Dailami Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 723192
Programme Director: Dr Ahmed Dailami
Institute of Arabic and Islamic Studies - Archival resources at the University of Exeter.
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree or above in the social sciences* or humanities or with an MA in a related social science* or humanities subject.
This masters is designed to develop your research skills within the field of Middle East Studies.
Your core training will be in social scientific philosophy and methodology, which you will then learn to apply to the study of the contemporary Middle East.
The programme is designed to develop your understanding of the history and evolution of the Middle East as a region, as well as introducing you to approaches to studying the area, and specialised quantitative and qualitative analytical techniques appropriate to this specialism.
This programme also forms part of the ESRC SWDTP – a hub of world-class social sciences research.
You need to choose a 30 credit ARAMxxx option module as part of your 180 total credits for of the programme.
£12,500 full-time; £6,250 part-time
£25,300 full-time; £12,650 part-time
Our research is focused on a number of specialist research centres:
Our research culture is collaborative and democratic, drawing together doctoral researchers, staff and students to produce cutting-edge new knowledge about the Arab and Islamic worlds.
István teaches on the optional module Islam in Practice.
His main scholarly interests lie in comparative and interdisciplinary studies, especially the social and cultural history of Islam as compared and linked to other civilisations.
Our excellent Employability and Graduate Development Service provides invaluable support, advice and access to graduate employers.
Visit the employment and professional development pages for more information, including podcasts and profiles, about the range of support available.
The academic skills developed on the MRes Middle East Studies will enable to you to pursue doctoral study.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/palestinestudiesma:
MA Palestine Studies
Programme Director Dr Nadia Naser-Najjab Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 723192
Programme Director: Dr Nadia Naser-Najjab
Palestine Studies is a form of scholar-activism, committed to transformative change by bridging academic inquiry with advocacy, public engagement, and direct action.
I believe that knowledge and scholarship are tools for justice, decolonisation, and to imagine liberation.
Rooted in the broader decolonial academic movement, our program actively challenges the ‘tourist agenda’ in research.
To make research relevant and impactful, we are dedicated to amplifying native voices, confronting dominant narratives, and ensuring that scholarship contributes to social change.
Read more from Dr.
Nadia Naser-Najjab
Dr.
MA Palestine Studies Programme Director
The MA in Palestine Studies is an engaging Masters course that will equip you with the general research skills, sources and tools relevant to study of the Palestine issue within the historical, regional and international context.
It focuses on the history, politics and culture of Palestine with a broader lens of the Middle East studies and Arab Studies.
The course is interdisciplinary and theoretically rich and will help you critically engage with debates to develop independent research.
It bridges academia to lived realities to enable students challenge dominant narratives and advocate for justice.
Our core module, The Palestine Question: Past and Present, examines and analyses the impact of significant historical events on present day politics of Palestine-Israel.
It examines to what extent the past is relevant to peace proposals and the two-state solution.
You will understand what the past informs us about the influence of colonial powers in defining the future solutions.
Palestinian leadership and resistance.
Arab-Israeli relations.
The module introduces you to this rich literature in an engaging and critical manner, fitting post graduate studies.
This is to allow you examine the recent development in the study of Israel and Palestine.
Examining the impact of late 18th century events in Europe on Palestine will help you understand the present political situation.
It allows you to become familiar with the various narratives on the history of the country and the influence recent conceptual and methodological developments had on the research on Palestine and Israel.
The module will introduce you to Palestinian and Israeli scholars who apply conflict resolution theories and those who use settler colonialism theories to analyse, explain events and explore possible solutions.
The Settler Colonial paradigm versus the National Conflict paradigm.
The European Centre for Palestine Studies (ECPS) continues to uphold and embody the principle of inclusive and free academic enquiry.
Professor Ilan Pappé and Dr.
Nadia Naser-Najjab, the current ECPS directors, want to pursue the effective decolonisation of education, collaborative and inclusive research practices, and the establishment of joint research networks that include students, (international and local) organisations, academics and activists.
They both also work with ECPS students to organise events, liaise with international researchers, and lead workshops.
Students on the MA in Palestine Studies will be part of a world-leading and internationally recognised research institution that works with African-American and Indigenous activists to challenge dominant knowledge claims and enable the emergence, consolidation and development of marginalised voices, perspectives, and experiences.
You will engage in a decolonisation of education rooted in an unrelenting rejection of western methodologies, and will critically interrogate associated representations on behalf of ‘objectivity’ and ‘universality’.
You’ll also engage and access alternative, and often marginal theoretical frameworks, such as settler colonial, queer, and feminist theories, benefitting from practical insights relevant to the media, policy, human rights, and legal (most notably international law) fields.
You will draw upon the knowledge and experience of Middle Eastern Studies experts based in the Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies (IAIS) , along with three other University of Exeter disciplines (Politics, History, and Economics).
Your studies will be enriched through access to outstanding research resources, including the (now mostly digitised) Arab World Documentation Unit (AWDU) , a unique collection of primary and secondary resources on Middle East Affairs built up over years of dedicated faculty research into the region’s politics and history, which includes Palestinian archive material from both the pre-Mandate and Mandate periods.
You will be part of a hub of postgraduate activity focused upon actively aiding and assisting the dispossessed, dehumanised, and marginalised inhabitants of Palestine.
Our postgraduates, who focus on a broad range of different aspects and dimensions, are able to draw upon the broad range of academic resources, the expertise and experience of our research staff, and various forms of support, including those focused on the development of both personal and academic skills.
Our MA in Palestine Studies is rigorous and the content is tailored to meet your research interests including, media, gender, politics, law, and history.
Our lectures are led by experts engaged in Palestine, middle East and International politics.
We offer creative and innovative learning approaches that engage students in practical coursework to develop research and professional skills tailored for applying knowledge to real-world situation.
Students will benefit from the ECPS activities and public events that involve workshops, cultural and renowned guest speakers.
These events are often organised by our students in collaboration with other disciplines across the university.
The European Centre for Palestine Studies (ECPS) aims to function as a hub for intellectual engagement with the Palestine question, facilitating scholarly research, helping to refine public discussion, and offering programmes for postgraduate study
Through personal and academic development over the course of the programme, students will be well-placed to pursue a range of careers, including as political advisors, journalists, NGO staff, and consultants.
They will not simply develop academic skills and abilities but will also broader skills and abilities through diverse activities that include preparing a brief for British MP visiting the region for the first time, preparing an advisory document for a human rights organisation, and/or writing news articles and blogs.
The academic skills developed on the MA Palestine Studies will enable to you to pursue doctoral study.
As a University of Exeter student, you will also have access to the Career Zone, providing invaluable support and tailored guidance to help you prepare for your career after university.
In addition, the location of this course within a hub of renowned academia will offer you the possibility of connections, networking opportunities, advice and guidance from others with extensive academic and career-related experience in this field.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/arabislamic/energy-infrastructure-environment:
MA Politics of Energy, Infrastructure and Environment
Programme Director: Professor Laleh Khalili
MA Politics of Energy, Infrastructure and Environment offers a multidisciplinary exploration of energy use, the transition to sustainable sources, and the environmental impacts of infrastructure and energy.
Integrating perspectives from the humanities and social sciences, the course examines these critical issues with a particular focus on the Middle East, a region with paradigmatic struggles around environmental preservation and fossil fuel use.
Customise your Masters to suit your interests with a variety of optional modules, and choose between a traditional dissertation or a capstone project.
The capstone project allows you to explore an area of interest through mediums such as curating an exhibition, engaging in artistic production like filmmaking, composing substantial grant proposals for NGOs, or drafting major policy reports.
You will graduate well-prepared for careers in policy, energy, environment, or further academic research, equipped with the knowledge and skills to actively contribute to the development of a sustainable society and economy in the 21st century.
The following tables describe the programme and constituent modules.
Constituent modules may be updated, deleted or replaced as a consequence of the annual review of this programme.
Details of the modules currently offered may be obtained from the Faculty website:
https://www.exeter.ac.uk/study/studyinformation/
Stage 1: 120 credits of compulsory modules, 60 credits of optional modules
A You may choose only one of these modules.
£12,500 full-time
£25,300 full-time
The MA has a core module that runs all year and will be taught through a mix of lectures and seminars.
The lectures will touch on the major political and social debates, histories, and contexts of the most urgent issues pertaining to energy, infrastructures and environmental degradation.
The thematic arrangement (for example around desertification, energy transitions, green capitalism etc) allows for critical analysis of a range of important topics.
Optional modules will similarly offer a mix of lectures and seminars.
An optional internship module will allow students to work on career development.
The core module and the capstone project or dissertation will all require research on subjects of significance to the student.
Tutors will help guide you towards subjects on which they themselves have extensive expertise, and their own research will intimately inform the subjects they will teach.
There are diverse assessments on the course to develop and evaluate your knowledge and skills.
Assessments are specific to each module and may include tasks like essays, book reviews, reports and presentations.
Additionally, you will choose between either a traditional dissertation or a capstone project in your final term.
These varied assessments ensure you can critically analyse key issues, communicate effectively and apply your learning to real-world challenges, preparing you for success upon graduation.
Laleh Khalili made her way to a PhD in politics by way of an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering at the University of Texas and after working for some years as a management consultant in the US.
She is compelled by and curious about the workings of transnational movements: of colonial forms of power and violence, of resistance, of ideas and practices, of people, and of hydrocarbons, capital, and cargo.
She has examined the representations and practices of violence in her first two books, Heroes and Martyrs of Palestine: the Politics of National Commemoration (Cambridge 2007) and Time in the Shadows: Confinement in Counterinsurgency (Stanford 2013) as well as in a volume I co-edited with Jillian Schwedler, titled Policing and Prisons in the Middle East: Formations of Coercion (Hurst 2010).
Her most recent books, Sinews of War and Trade: Shipping and Capitalism in the Arabian Peninsula (Verso 2020) and The Corporeal Life of Seafaring (Mack Books 2024) examine the role of maritime infrastructures as conduits of movement of technologies, capital, people and cargo.
She is currently completing a book of essays on Extractive Capitalism (Profile, forthcoming 2025), and planning another major project, on the afterlives of oil and hydrocarbons, after their nationalisation in the Middle East.
Dr Natanel is interested in micro-politics, or the politics of everyday life, and psycho-social dynamics of life in the Middle East and beyond.
These themes are reflected in her first book project, Sustaining Conflict: Apathy and Domination in Israel-Palestine (2016, University of California Press), which was awarded the 2017 Feminist and Women's Studies Association (UK & Ireland) Book Prize.
Since 2017, she has worked closely with students and comrades to challenge what ‘counts’ as knowledge, insisting on the significance of aesthetic and embodied expression – as ways of knowing that reach and move people.
Examples of our praxis can be seen in her most recent publications ‘Toward a Liberation Pedagogy’ (in Kohl: a Journal for Body and Gender Research , special issue on 'Anticolonial Feminist Imaginaries') and ‘Steps toward a decolonial feminist ecology’ (forthcoming in Creative Ruptions for Emergent Educational Futures , Palgrave Macmillan).
Her work on pedagogies is part of a larger shift to focusing on decolonisation – as a material practice and knowledge project oriented toward justice, liberation and self-determination.
She is currently developing a research project on decolonial feminist ecologies, which is grounded in local land-based initiatives.
As of autumn 2023, she also has worked with Radical Ecology as the coordinator of the Black Atlantic Innovation Network (BAIN).
In spring 2024 the network will launch ‘A Framework for Environmental Justice’, developed with the UCL Sarah Parker Redmond Centre and other Network partners.
Dr Hassaniyan is the author of Kurdish Politics in Iran, Crossborder Interactions and Mobilisation since 1947 published by Cambridge University Press.
The book focuses on the evolution of the Kurdish national movement in Iran in its relation to the Iranian state and its relation to the Kurdish movement in Iraq since the second half of the 20th century until 2017.
His forthcoming book (project) is an investigation of Iran’s environmental and ecological challenges, inspired mainly by the civil society organisations.
What distinguishes this project is the move away from the traditional focus on the state and the centre, to the environmental movement and ecological struggle of non-Persian people and communities (i.e.
the Kurds, Arabs, and Baluchis) in Iran.
This movement is conceptualised as the environmentalism of the subaltern, and it produced counterhegemonic discourses to the Iranian state’s discourse of ‘security’, ‘identity’ and ‘development’.
The MA Politics of Energy and Infrastructure course will equip you with a versatile and highly sought-after skill set, preparing you for an impactful career.
As a graduate, you will possess a deep understanding of critical issues surrounding energy, infrastructure and the environment.
After graduation, you’ll be well-prepared to step into policy, community and corporate ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) jobs, drawing on a deep understanding of global energy and environmental issues.
Your exposure to critical and political approaches to energy security, infrastructure development and environmental concerns will also mean you have a valuable skill set ideal for advancing to doctoral programmes in this rapidly expanding field of study.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/archaeology/archma:
MA Archaeology
Programme Director Professor Oliver Creighton Web: Enquire online Phone: 0300 555 6060 (UK) +44 (0)1392 723044 (non-UK)
Programme Director: Professor Oliver Creighton
Discover MA Archaeology at the University of Exeter.
Top 10 in the Complete University Guide 2026
Ranked 9 th for Archaeology in the UK
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree or above in their first degree in archaeology, history, ancient history, anthropology, biology, geography, geology, chemistry, heritage, environmental science, or classics.
For applicants from different academic backgrounds or with relevant work experience, please use your Personal Statement to provide additional information.
This might include:
Feel free to informally contact the Programme Director (see above) for advice before submitting your formal application.
The programme is divided into units of study called modules which are assigned 'credits'.
The credit rating of a module is proportional to the total workload, with 1 credit being nominally equivalent to 10 hours of work.
120 credits of compulsory modules and 60 credits of optional modules
Most of our teaching is done collaboratively in small groups because we feel this is the best way to help you develop.
Your classes will be a mix of lectures, seminars and workshops where you will learn the methodology and practical skills you need.
We have a range of specialist equipment and excellent facilities including laboratories, kiln room, and spaces for experimental archaeology.
All members of staff are actively engaged in research, both in Britain and abroad, and regularly attend conferences, symposia and workshops.
It is through this active engagement in the discipline that we are able to supply top quality teaching by experts in their field and as a result we have a 24/24 grading for our teaching from the Quality Assurance Agency.
The MA in Archaeology is a flexible programme that allows you to tailor your modules to fit your own interests across the first two terms.
Your progress on your modules will be assessed through the coursework you produce which might include written reports, essays and presentations.
In the third and final term you will work exclusively on your dissertation, an original piece of research on a topic of your choice.
Our research at Exeter is world-leading and all our academic staff are actively engaged in both Britain and further afield.
We are regular attendees at conferences, symposia and workshops and this active engagement with the wider research community allows us to offer top quality teaching by key experts in different specialisms.
We are particularly unique for our expertise in the fields of Bioarchaeology and Experimental Archaeology.
Our interests run from early prehistory through to the post-medieval period.
Our geographic specialisations include the Americas, the British Isles, Europe, South Asia and North Africa.
Interdisciplinary work is an increasingly important part of funded research and we regularly work with colleagues from across the College of Humanities and wider University.
We have particular crossover with the History, Classics and Ancient History, and Theology Departments.
My research has a strong interdisciplinary dimension and I am particularly interested in medieval elite culture, buildings and landscapes.
I also research the archaeology and history of designed landscapes, towns and townscapes; conflict archaeology; and medieval warfare.
Professor Oliver Creighton
As a member of the Archaeology Department and key part of our postgraduate community you will have full access to our exceptional, modern facilities.
• Experimental Archaeology Labs • Bioarchaeology Lab • Clean Lab and fume cupboards for preparing stable isotope samples • Landscape archaeology project office • Microscope room equipped with high specification microscopes and image processing facilities • Digital Humanities Lab • Wet labs for artefact and environmental sample processing • Digital x-ray facilities and equipment for elemental analysis • State-of-the-art surveying equipment • Outdoor experimental space
Many of our MA students go on to study at PhD level, and the MA in Archaeology serves as excellent preparation.
Your tutors and the Archaeology academic staff will help you put together applications for funding and develop a research proposal if you should choose to take this path.
Of course, doctoral study is not the only option available to you, you will graduate with a full range of skills that will make you competitive in the archaeology job market.
Archaeology skills are recognised by the UK Government as being subject to a shortage, with archaeology jobs currently listed on the UK Shortage Occupation List .
On completion of our MA Archaeology, you will be well placed to go on to work in either Archaeology or the wider Heritage Sector, in other jobs within construction, community-based projects, or within the third sector, as just some examples.
Some of our recent graduates have gone on to careers such as:
While studying at Exeter you can also access a range of activities, advice and practical help to give you the best chance of following your chosen career path.
For more information visit our Careers pages.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/archaeology/zooarchaeology:
MSc Bioarchaeology: Zooarchaeology
Programme Director: Prof Alan Outram
Discover MSc Bioarchaeology: Human Osteology, Zooarchaeology or Forensic Anthropology at Exeter.
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree or above in their first degree in archaeology, history, ancient history, anthropology, biology, geography, geology, chemistry, heritage, or similar.
Modules - Bioarchaeology: Zooarchaeology
a Students who have already taken ARC2504 or equivalent must take ARCM403 Advanced Zooarchaeology
We seek to educate students in stimulating ways so as to develop intellectual skills for life and employment in the contemporary world, and provide a sound appreciation of archaeology.
Most of the formal classes that you attend will be based on a mixture of lectures, seminars, and workshops.
The precise mix will vary between modules.
These aim to outline the principal issues of the module, to explore some detailed issues, and, where relevant, to give you experience of working with a particular technique or data set.
In addition to our established palaeobotany, experimental archaeology, and microscopy laboratories, we have a new bioarchaeology lab dedicated to the study of anatomical variation, palaeopathological conditions, and the funerary context of human and animal remains.
The laboratory, accompanied by a designated store for the Department's collection of human remains, provides facilities for use by researchers and students for examining skeletal remains recovered from archaeological sites.
Equipment includes anatomical casts and demographic reference standards used to determine the sex, age-at-death, stature and body proportions from human remains.
The assessment for the MSc Bioarchaeology is through a combination of class tests, essays, other written reports and projects, oral or electronic presentations, visual presentations, and a dissertation.
The dissertation of up to 15,000 words is an original piece of research on a topic of your choice, subject to the approval of your supervisor.
Bioarchaeological research at Exeter combines the study of archaeology with branches of the natural and physical sciences to address questions of health and well-being, diet, ecology, subsistence strategies and natural and human-induced environmental impacts in the past.
Our approach is holistic and inter-disciplinary, drawing its inspiration from both definitions of ‘bioarchaeology’: as a study applied to human remains (human osteoarchaeology) and, as originally defined by Grahame Clark, as related to the integration of environmental archaeology, floral and faunal evidence – archaeobotany and zooarchaeology – in archaeological research.
Active field research programmes in North and South America and Eurasia link with extensive laboratory research to address questions of social structure and social organisation, the process of animal and plant domestication, the development of social inequality and power relations, violence and warfare, the rise of élites and craft specialists, and division of labour.
Our current research covers a range of themes:
Professor Alan Outram is a bioarchaeologist and palaeoeconomist who specialises in zooarchaeology (the analysis of archaeological animal bones and understanding past human/animal relations).
Some of his most significant work has been on tracing the domestication of the horse in Central Asia, and studying the development of steppe pastoral societies in Kazakhstan.
He is also well known as a specialist in bone taphonomy, particularly fracture and fragmentation analysis
Topics of interest include the development of specialist search, location, recovery and recording methods for forensic casework, including work conducted in domestic, international and mass disaster settings.
Laura's previous research focused on experimentally testing existing archaeological excavation techniques and recording methods to validate their suitability for use in forensic casework.
Alan teaches on topics such as the archaeology and anthropology of hunter-gatherers, the origins of farming and early pastoral societies, past foodways, and techniques of zooarchaeology, experimental archaeology and general archaeological and forensic sciences.
This teaching is always fully informed by his active research in these areas.
Read more from Professor Alan Outram
Professor Alan Outram
Professor of Archaeological Science
As a member of the Archaeology Department and key part of our Postgraduate community you will have full access to our exceptional, modern facilities.
We have dedicated Experimental Archaeology laboratories and workshop spaces.
We have a clean lab with fume cupboards for chemical work.
We have a kiln room, a landscape archaeology project office with a giant scanner for maps and plans, and a microscope room equipped with high specification microscopes and image processing facilities.
We have wet labs for sample processing and we have state of the art surveying equipment which includes resistivity equipment, magnetometers, differential and hand-held GPS, and a total station theodolite.
And of course you will have access to the wider resources of the University too, including the Library, Special Collections and our new Digital Humanities Lab, a £1.2 million lab and research space for the examination and preservation of important historical, literary and visual artefacts.
The lab will allow you to use high-tech equipment to find out more about our cultural heritage and examine objects in greater detail.
For more information visit our Digital Humanities Lab page.
Many of our Archaeology students go on to study at PhD level, and the MSc in Bioarchaeology serves as excellent preparation.
Of course, doctoral study is not the only option available to you, you will graduate with a full range of skills that will make you competitive in the job market.
You will be encouraged to become a productive, useful and questioning member of society.
You will be well placed to go onto work in either commercial archaeology or the wider heritage sector.
Some of our recent graduates have gone on to work directly in Archaeology or the wider Heritage Sector, with careers such as:

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/archaeology/forensic:
MSc Bioarchaeology: Forensic Anthropology
Programme Director: Dr Laura Evis
We will consider applicants with a 2:2 Honours degree or above in their first degree in forensic science, archaeology, history, ancient history, anthropology, biology, geography, geology, chemistry, heritage, or similar.
Modules - Bioarchaeology: Forensic Anthropology
Dr Laura Evis is a forensic bioarchaeologist who adapts and applies various archaeological and anthropological techniques to help answer questions and solve problems for medico-legal investigations.
Laura teaches across a range of subjects, but specialises in forensic archaeology and anthropology.
Read more from Dr Laura Evis
Dr Laura Evis
Lecturer in Forensic Archaeology and Anthropology

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/archaeology/humanosteology:
MSc Bioarchaeology: Human Osteology
Programme Director Catriona McKenzie Web: Enquire online Phone: +44 (0)1392 723192
Programme Director: Dr Catriona McKenzie
Modules - Bioarchaeology: Human Osteology
105 credits of compulsory modules, 75 credits of optional modules
My research has two main strands.
The first focuses on the analysis of archaeological human remains, identifying diseases present in the skeletal remains and exploring the broader social, cultural and environmental context of those diseases.
This work has resulted in a co-authored book, 'Life and Death in Medieval Gaelic Ireland: The Skeletons from Ballyhanna, Co.
Donegal', and an edited book, 'The Science of a Lost Medieval Gaelic Graveyard: The Ballyhanna Research Project'.
I have a particular interest in the archaeology of medieval and post-medieval Ireland.
The second strand of research focuses on using information from human skeletal remains in new interdisciplinary collaborations.
Read more from Dr Catriona McKenzie
Dr Catriona McKenzie
Senior Lecturer in Human Osteoarchaeology
The laboratory, accompanied by a designated store for the Department's collection of human remains, provides facilities for use by researchers and students for examining skeletal remains recovered from archaeological sites.
We also have established palaeobotany, experimental archaeology, and microscopy laboratories.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/archaeology/forensic-investigations:
MSc Forensic Investigations
A 2:2 Honours degree or above in forensic science, archaeology, anthropology, geology, geography, criminology, computer science, medicine, biology, chemistry, physics, natural sciences, or similar.
While we normally only consider applicants who meet these criteria, if you are coming from a different background which is equivalent to degree level, or have relevant work experience or technical skills, we would welcome your application.
This MSc combines hands-on practical work with theoretical studies, allowing you to develop your skills using advanced laboratories and cutting-edge analytical tools.
By the end of the course, you will be able to critically analyse evidence, create strategic solutions for operational challenges, conduct original research, and communicate complex scientific findings effectively.
Modules - MSc Forensic Investigations
1-year, 1-stage 180 credits -
Stage 1: 150 credits of compulsory modules and 30 credits of optional modules.
Modules - MSc Forensic Investigations (part-time)
Year 1: 90 credits of compulsory modules.
Year 2: 60 credits of compulsory modules and 30 credits of optional modules.
We seek to inspire and educate students in stimulating ways so as to develop intellectual skills for life and employment in the contemporary world.
Skill gain and tailored immersive engagement are central tenets of the programme’s design, with learning enhanced through practical exercises and progression captured through portfolio and skill-based assessments.
We believe in “no borders” interdisciplinary collaboration, a particularly essential attribute for forensic casework.
Given the nature and scope of criminal activity, a vast array of expertise is required to identify, record, and reconstruct events accurately.
We therefore operate a collaborative cross-disciplinary team from across the university and industry, drawing a wide range of expertise into the delivery of this MSc.
Most of the formal classes that you will attend will be a mixture of lectures, seminars, workshops, and laboratory sessions.
The assessment for the MSc Forensic Investigations is through a combination of tests, essays, reports, posters, portfolios, oral and visual presentations, viva voce, and an independent project.
The independent project of up to 10,000 words is a substantial piece of original and independent research on a topic aligned to career aspirations or research interests, subject to the approval of a supervisor.
All members of staff are actively engaged in research and casework, both in Britain and abroad, regularly attending conferences, workshops and symposia.
It is through this engagement in both academia and industry that the university are able to provide top quality teaching by experts in their field.
In addition to the facilities below, you will have access to our Science Heritage and Archaeology Digital (SHArD 3D) Lab which includes equipment for: advanced digital microscopy, x-ray imaging and micro-CT imaging, and 3D modelling capabilities utilising structured light scanners for both small objects and entire landscapes.
We also have a portable XRF for elemental analysis, and two drones for aerial survey and landscape modelling.
The SHArD Lab also provides you with the opportunity to collaborate and network with its commercial forensic partners and clients.
As a member of the Archaeology and History Department and key part of our Postgraduate community you will have full access to our exceptional, modern facilities and resources.
We also have extensive reference collections of artefacts, animal bones and plant remains.
You will also have access to the wider resources of the University too, including the Library, Special Collections and our Digital Humanities Lab.
Professor Karl Harrison has worked in the field of forensic investigations for over 20 years.
He is a former National Forensic Specialist Adviser and one of the most experienced Forensic Archaeologists currently operational.
Most of his casework has been UK-based and focused on prosecution work with UK police forces, but he has in addition worked internationally in Portugal, Greece, Poland, Iraq and in international waters.
Focused on forensic archaeology, Karl has a broad background in scene forensics and major scene coordination, and has provided forensic strategy advice across a range of complex major investigations.
Commended for his work at Grenfell Tower, Karl has a particular interest in the intersection between forensic investigation and mass fatality procedure.
Dr Sophie Beckett is a lecturer in Archaeology at the University of Exeter.
Research interests span Human Osteoarchaeology, Forensic Anthropology and Applied Archaeological Science with particular focus on biological minerals (such as dental calculus, urinary stones and burnt bone), disarticulated human skeletal remains, osteometrics and, the application of computed tomography (CT) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis within Archaeology.
Sophie is an Honorary Fellow of Melbourne Dental School (University of Melbourne) and a Chartered Chemist (Royal Society of Chemistry).
She has experience of management of large multi-user laboratories, commercial analysis in XRD and CT and, working in the UK and abroad within mass fatality incident response.
This programme prepares you to excel in the forensic science sector and various other related fields.
The MSc has been designed to align with the latest industry standards.
The interdisciplinary nature of the programme provides a range of employment options both within and outside of the forensic science sector, as well as progression opportunities to study a PhD.
Example fields where graduates find employment:
Employment and professional development: Our excellent Career Zone provides invaluable support, advice and access to graduate employers.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/biosciences/biologicalsciences:
MSc Advanced Biological Sciences
At least a 2:2 Honours degree or equivalent in Biology or a relevant science subject
Programme Director: Dr Alison Hill
Advance laboratory skills with specialist techniques training
Substantial research project within one of our world-leading research groups
Minimum 2:2 Honours degree or equivalent in a relevant science subject.
Relevant subjects include: Biological Sciences, Cell Biology, Ecology, Ecology and Conservation, Evolutionary Biology, Genetics, Marine Biology, Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Plant Science, Zoology.
The Masters programme at Exeter allows you to specialise in an area of Biology that you are most interested in and gives you a fantastic opportunity to undertake research in one of our world-leading research laboratories.
Dr Alison Hill
Programme Director and Senior Lecturer
Our MSc in Advanced Biological Sciences degree allows you to study a broad base of Biological Sciences, or specialise in one of seven specialist areas (Animal Biology, Bioinformatics, Ecotoxicology, Frontiers in Plant Science, Microbiology and Infectious Disease, Molecular and Cellular Biology, or Sustainable Aquaculture).
Throughout this research-intensive Masters, you will be immersed in a world-leading research environment and trained in the skills required to analyse and address major biological challenges of our time.
Knowledge and skills learned during core modules will enable you to develop your research project, which will be supervised within one of our world-leading research groups, determined by your research project focus.
The optional modules available provide access to a breadth of biosciences topics, which will allow you to tailor your studies to your particular interests and career goals.
Our Advanced Laboratory Skills module provides training in both practical and data processing skills, with advanced laboratory experiments carried out in small groups to prepare you for your independent research project with one of our research groups.
Specialist pathways
During your MSc you can, if you wish, choose to specialise in one of seven specialist pathways:
You will receive advice about the specialisms once you're at Exeter so you don’t need to make any decisions in advance.
To be awarded a bracketed specialism on the MSc, at least 45 credits should be selected from the specialist modules grouped below.
Your research project (module BIOM560) must also be relevant to the specialist field.
You may take optional modules as long as any necessary prerequisites have been satisfied, where the timetable allows, and if you have not already taken the module in question or an equivalent module.
*You cannot choose this module if you have already taken the undergraduate version.
£14,900 full-time; £7,500 part-time
£30,900 full-time; £15,500 part-time
The ability to specialise the degree into one of seven different specialisations (or none) really allows students to tailor this programme to their own ambitions and career aspirations.
Dr Rose Murray
External examiner (University of Bristol)
The suite of programmes naturally builds on our internationally-leading undergraduate degrees, providing a rich and focused research-led experience.
It works both ways - a fantastic opportunity for students to enhance their specialist training, while welcoming a new cohort of enthusiastic, budding scientists into our Departmental community.
Professor James Wakefield
Head of Biosciences
The programme consists of core modules that provide you with a theoretical and applied learning framework for directed student-centred learning where you’ll develop in-demand skills of synthesis, critical analysis, and interpretation.
You’ll also receive professional skills training tailored to the areas most relevant to your academic and professional development.
You will carry out your independent supervised research project in one of our world-leading research laboratories .
Research projects are individual and can be based on laboratory work, field work or in silico (e.g.
bioinformatics).
The research project will give you first-hand experience in many aspects of research work including data generation, analysis, and interpretation as well as science communication in written, poster and oral presentations.
During your research project, you will be supported by your research supervisor and other members of the research group to ensure you produce your best work.
Depending on your chosen modules and research project topic, you may have access to the following facilities:
You will be allocated a personal tutor who is available for advice and support throughout your studies.
There is also a postgraduate tutor available to help with further guidance and advice, and our programme director will offer every student a meeting each term to review academic progress.
Taught modules are assessed through essay examinations, individual and group-based coursework assignments, oral presentations, in-module tests and reports or essays.
A significant proportion of the marks are based on your substantial research project and the associated paper submitted in August.
Professor Santos is an environmental biologist investigating reproductive development and function and the susceptibility of these processes to disruption by environmental stressors.
Her research focuses on fish and has ranged from investigating the endocrine control of reproduction to addressing the population level effects of chemical exposure for wild fish, using systems biology strategies.
Profile page Follow Eduarda on Twitter
Dr Brown is a molecular microbiologist interested in defining mechanisms of virulence and niche adaptation in pathogenic bacteria, and how these impact on host-microbe interactions during infection.
He has a particular interest in bacterial pathogens associated with chronic lung infections, such as those associated with cystic fibrosis patients.
By understanding both the epidemiology and virulence of such organisms, we hope to identify ways to optimise the treatment and management of these life-threatening infections.
Professor Kumar is a biologist interested in the fundamental principles that underpin perception and integration of environmental signals in plants.
He is particularly interested in understanding how plants sense temperature and other seasonal cues to coordinate growth, development and immune responses.
His current research is seeking to understand the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation in response to the environment, and adaptation of these mechanisms to local and dynamic environments.
Profile page Vinod's LinkedIn profile
Dr Hill specialises in secondary metabolism and teaches chemistry and biochemistry.
She carries out pedagogical research into incorporating mathematics into the curriculum.
Alison is an Exeter Incubator Fellow and Senior Fellow of the HEA.
She is the Senior Tutor for the Masters students and is module lead for the Professional Skills module.
Profile page Alison's LinkedIn profile
Professor Wakefield’s research interest has always been that of mitosis and cell division, stimulated by the fundamental beauty of the process as viewed using a fluorescence microscope, and its key role in diseases such as cancer.
He wants to understand how these systems organise themselves, and what governs the similarities and differences between them in diverse types of cell, at different stages of development, and during disease.
He takes a multi-disciplinary approach, combining proteomics, bioinformatics and quantitative image analysis with qualitative, descriptive cell and developmental biology, and genetics.
Profile page Follow James on Twitter
MSc Advanced Biological Sciences will provide you with a diversity of skills that will equip you for work in a range of sectors.
Skills include:
In the Professional Skills module, we have dedicated careers workshops, and sessions on being an Academic Entrepreneur.
Visiting speakers from outside the University are incorporated into some of the taught modules to further enhance your employability and you will be encouraged to seek out internships during your time here.
Our dedicated careers team at the Career Zone can help guide you through a wealth of information to match your skills and interests to a career that will suit you.
Our staff work with regional, national and international employers to develop new work placement, project and graduate opportunities.
Graduates are well placed for a research career in industry, or for progression to PhD.
You’ll also be competitively placed for work in Government Agencies such as CEFAS and DEFRA.
The programme is designed very well to support students in attainment of the programme ILOs.
In particular, the advanced laboratory skills module is innovative and bespoke for this particular cohort, forming an integral part of the focus of the programme.
View all Biosciences courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/biosciences/biologicalresearch:
MRes Advanced Biological Sciences
The MRes Advanced Biological Sciences programme is a research-driven programme that will be taken over two academic years enabling you to complete two research projects.
In year one, you will receive training in laboratory methods and transferable skills, take three taught modules and complete your first 45 credit research project.
In year two, you will be supported in submitting UK-wide PhD studentship applications, learn how to write effective research proposals, take a core Advanced Topics module plus one other module from an extensive suite of options, and undertake your second, more extensive research project (75 credits).
The core modules will provide you with the knowledge and skills required to develop your research projects which will be supervised from within two of our world-leading research groups, determined by your research project focus.
Year 1 modules
a You cannot choose the same optional module in Stage 1 and Stage 2
Year 2 modules
105 credits of compulsory modules and 15 credits of optional modules
During your MRes you can, if you wish, choose to specialise in one of seven specialist pathways:
You will receive advice about the specialisms once you’re at Exeter so you don't need to make any decisions in advance.
To be awarded a bracketed specialism on the MRes, at least 45 credits should be selected from the specialist modules grouped below.
Your research projects (modules BIOM550 and BIOM518) must both also be relevant to the specialist field.
Minimum 2:2 Honours degree with 55% and above or equivalent in a relevant science subject.
A 2:2 degree below 55% in a related discipline will also be considered.
The MRes programme at Exeter is research focussed and you will complete two research projects in our world-leading research laboratories which is an excellent preparation for a research career.
If you wish, you can specialise in an area of Biology you are most interested in, or you can do your research projects in two different areas thereby broadening your research portfolio.
£11,500 full-time
£16,600 full-time
The programme consists of core modules that provide you with a theoretical and applied learning framework for directed student-centred learning in which you will develop skills of synthesis, critical analysis, and interpretation.
In addition, you will receive professional skills training tailored to the areas most relevant to your academic and professional development.
You will carry out your independent supervised research projects in one of our world-leading research laboratories .
The research projects will give you first-hand experience in many aspects of research work including data generation, analysis, and interpretation as well as science communication in written, poster and oral presentations.
Depending on your chosen modules and research project topics, you may have access to the following facilities:
There is also a postgraduate tutor available to help with further guidance and advice.
In addition, the programme director will offer every student a meeting each term to review academic progress.
A significant proportion of the marks are based on your substantial research projects and the associated papers.
This programme will provide you with a diversity of skills that will equip you for a range of sectors of work but it will particularly prepare you for PhD study or a career in research.
Our careers teams at the Career Zone can help guide you through a wealth of information to match your skills and interests to a career that will suit you.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/biosciences/biologicalsciencesbusiness:
MSc Advanced Biological Sciences and Business
At least a 2:1 Honours degree or equivalent in Biology or a relevant science subject
Minimum 2:1 in a relevant science subject.
A degree achieving 55% - 60% in a relevant science subject, will also be considered by our programme director.
MSc Advanced Biological Science and Business draws upon the combined research expertise and teaching strengths of Biosciences and our world-leading Business School.
This carefully designed programme equips you with the sought-after skills demanded by the industry, setting you up for success in the job market.
You'll develop practical and theoretical biosciences skills while also gaining insights into international business and entrepreneurship.
Our faculty comprises academics at the forefront of their field, with strong industry connections.
The programme offers a dynamic blend of Biology and Business modules.
The Advanced Laboratory Skills and Professional Skills modules will provide you with the knowledge required to undertake a biosciences research project.
Within the Business School, you will delve into the Principles of International Business module to prepare for the capstone project.
Customise the programme to suit your needs with a selection of optional modules from both the Business School and Biosciences.
You must choose 30 credits from the modules listed in the optional modules table starting with BIOM, CSC, GEOM, HPDM, NSCM or PSYM and 30 credits of Business School modules (starting with BEMM).
Students may instead choose to take 45 credits from the first option list (BIOM, CSC, GEOM, HPDM, NSCM or PSYM options) and 15 credits from the second, Business School options list (BEMM options).
Students who take this pathway will be awarded a degree title of ‘MSc Advanced Biological Sciences with Business’.
You cannot choose BIOM570 Beyond the Frontiers of Medical Mycology if you have already taken the undergraduate version, BIO3058 Beyond the Frontiers of Medical Mycology.
A significant proportion of the marks are based on the Biosciences Research Project and the International Business Plan.
She is the Senior Tutor for Masters students and is module lead for the Professional Skills and Research Project module s .
Alison was awarded the RSC Excellence in Higher Education Prize in 2022.
Mike is a marine biotechnologist with two decades of research experience working with and valorising algae.
The author of >100 research articles, Mike has published cutting edge research on topics including bioremediation, water sanitation, high throughput liquid processing, novel technology development and biorefineries.
Mike is Co-Founder and Chief Science Officer of Seaweed Generation - pioneers in marine robotics working with, rather than against, nature to protect ecosystems and harness ocean potential.
Mike is also a scientific founder of Neptunus Biotech which creates sustainable and revolutionary solutions based on microalgae in the agriculture, animal nutrition and cosmetic domains.
Dr Yusra Siddiqui is the Deputy Programme Director and has lots of international experience and an entrepreneurial background.
She is a cell biologist with an expertise in prostate cancer biology, RNA-Seq data analysis using R and Linux, and genomics-based projects.
Yusra also has experience of working with various animal models including zebrafish and mice.
She is an active science communicator and is interested in digital pedagogy, inclusive education and decolonisation of biosciences.
Prof Shaw is an Associate Professor of physical chemistry at the University of Exeter and founder of two spin-out companies.
Following Cambridge and Stanford in particular, academic entrepreneurship is important to Prof Shaw so that science can deliver the impact it promises.
His first spin-out company was in the field of counter terrorism and was sold for $8m.
His second company Attomarker has raised £3m in seed and a COVID19 Triple Antibody Test was ready for sales in November 2020.
A COVID19-Flu20 Triple Antibody test can detect antibodies to the flu strain present in the current flu vaccination.
A further saliva test is in development to measure viral antigen proteins and antibodies.
Dr Alex Thompson is a Senior Lecturer in Marketing within the University of Exeter Business School.
His research explores how businesses have adapted ethnographic market research methods in their quest to better understand customer needs.
In addition to his academic experience, Alex has worked on a number of commercial research projects where he applies ethnographic approaches to understanding marketplace dynamics.
His clients include GlaxoSmithKline, Roche, the LaBelle Entrepreneurial Centre, the Imperial College Business School, Novartis, Water Regulatory Advisory Scheme (WRAS), and the Public Broadcast System (PBS).
Employability is a central focus of the MSc Advanced Biological Sciences and Business programme.
The course has been meticulously designed to not only cultivate your practical and theoretical biosciences skills but also impart a comprehensive understanding of international business and entrepreneurship.
This unique blend equips you with the skills and attributes that employers value most in today’s competitive job market such as problem solving, data analysis and an entrepreneurial mindset.
Furthermore, you have the flexibility to customise the programme to align with your career aspirations through our projects and optional modules.
You will benefit from the collective expertise of our Biosciences department and award-winning Business School.
Our academics have deep industry connections, ensuring that your learning is not only academically rigorous but also practical and relevant to today’s challenges.
Your teaching will also be enriched by guest speakers, providing you with exposure to industry leaders and enhancing your understanding of real-world challenges and opportunities.
The Career Zone can help guide you through a wealth of information to match your skills and interests to a career that will suit you.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ecology/conservation:
Normally a 2:1 Honours degree or equivalent in a relevant science subject
MSc Conservation and Biodiversity with UK field course
Due to the high demand for this programme we highly recommend that you apply early.
Applications can be made from October 2024.
If we experience high demand it may be necessary for us to operate waiting lists or close the programme.
Programme Director: Professor Kimberley Hockings
High-quality research supervision, with access to excellent facilities
A 2:1 degree or above in a relevant science subject* is normally required.
We will be happy to consider applicants with a non-scientific background who have a strong academic profile and/or significant relevant work experience of 2+ years, on individual merit.
*Relevant subjects include: Biology, Biosciences, Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, Geography, Marine Biology, Natural Sciences, Zoology.
I've really enjoyed the flexibility and variety of module choices on the programme and the amount of skills I developed in each one.
I’m learning about current marine scientific research and getting to meet founders of conservation NGOs and science-communication organisations.
I have found the teaching to be excellent.
The lecturers promote discussion-style lectures so I really feel I am engaging with the topics taught, and am never afraid to ask questions or talk about ideas.
The academics are genuinely supportive, and are very happy to talk and help whenever it is needed.
My personal tutor has been particularly helpful, not only academically, but also on personal matters and has given very useful career advice.
The University of Exeter has a fantastic reputation, especially for Biosciences!
The idea of studying at the Penryn Campus in Cornwall really appealed to me because of the natural beauty of the area and the wide range of career possibilities within my field (wildlife conservation).
I have really enjoyed meeting people from different backgrounds, of different nationalities and ages, and with very different interests and styles.
I feel part of a big, friendly and very inclusive community.
After I graduate I would like to pursue a PhD and then work in science communication or education.
Meeting academics and scientists at Exeter has made me realise what a broad range of options I actually have, and I’ve already made some connections.
The MSc Conservation and Biodiversity programme is excellent, whether you have an interest in marine or terrestrial wildlife, want to go into academia or gain skills in ecological consultancy; there are so many options!
Read more from Sarita
Sarita
This Masters programme is taught at our Penryn Campus in Cornwall by staff at the renowned Centre for Ecology and Conservation.
The course boasts a significant research component, with substantial field work opportunities in the UK and internationally, with a residential fieldcourse.
A distinctive and integral feature of our MSc is the high degree of input from conservationists in collaborating governmental and non-governmental organisations.
This participation takes a variety of forms, including guest lectures and field visits, but may also include providing research projects in their organisations.
Collaborating organisations include: Cornwall Wildlife Trust , Marine Conservation Society , Natural England , Plymouth Marine Lab , Royal Botanic Gardens Kew , Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB), Thousand Year Trust , UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (CEH) and the Zoological Society of London .
This applied degree provides excellent employability, with our recent alumni moving onto ecological consultancy work, government conservation programmes, NGO conservation projects and fully funded PhD positions in ecology and conservation.
Taught Modules (with International Field Course)
Constituent modules may be updated, deleted or replaced as a consequence of the annual programme review of this programme.
If you have mobility or health disabilities that prevent you from undertaking intensive fieldwork, reasonable adjustments and/or alternative assessment can be considered.
This could include replacing a fieldwork module with an alternative in agreement with the Director of Education.
150 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules:
Taught Modules (with UK Field Course)
£15,700 full-time; £7,850 part-time
£30,700 full-time; £15,350 part-time
£14,500 full-time; £7,250 part-time
£29,500 full-time; £14,750 part-time
The fees include costs of field trips including a 2-week residential course on ‘African Biodiversity and Conservation’ or ‘Rewilding the United Kingdom’.
In line with our commitment to tackling the global climate emergency, we offer this programme with a low-carbon UK field course destination (the Highlands and Islands of Scotland) and with lower tuition fees.
When participating in field courses, you may be required to provide your own specialist personal equipment appropriate to the field course destination, e.g.
For Kenya, you will be required to cover any visa costs and purchase anti-malarial medication and relevant immunisations.
Find out more about tuition fees and funding
I was ecstatic to receive the Global Excellence Scholarship because my financial situation at the time and the expense of international tuition fees meant I would never be able to do a Masters degree without this scholarship, which greatly improved the likelihood of me being in a career I dreamt of.
Terita
The taught component of this programme is delivered in the first six months.
During this time, you will also compile and read scientific literature on the topic of your research project, which you will pursue during the remainder of the academic year.
There is considerable scope for you to direct your learning towards fields of particular interest, especially through your choice of optional modules and research project.
Research seminars will see you interacting with a diversity of top academics and getting to know about their ongoing research.
A large number of University of Exeter academics will be involved with this programme and they will offer a great diversity of research topics within their projects in the UK and overseas.
There is also the option to work with an external collaborating organisation as a placement student during your research project, which could be located anywhere in the world.
Each student is allocated a personal tutor who is available for advice and support throughout your studies.
Taught modules will be assessed in a variety of ways, including formal oral presentations, written reports, essays and discussions, during or upon the immediate completion of these modules.
The research project makes up a significant proportion of the assessment and is mainly based on the dissertation write-up.
You will become part of Exeter's Graduate School of Environment & Sustainability - a vibrant and supportive postgraduate community based here on our Penryn Campus in Cornwall .
The Graduate School brings together experts from across the spectrum of earth and life sciences, engineering, humanities, social sciences and business.
You will interact with students from other MScs and have the opportunity to explore issues from a range of perspectives, benefiting from a truly interdisciplinary experience.
All our programmes are designed with a focus on developing solutions to global challenges and creating a better future for our planet and its people.
Kenya field course option
The MSc in Conservation and Biodiversity with International field course invites you to develop your understanding of the challenges and opportunities of conserving biodiversity in complex landscapes shared by people and wildlife.
You will visit some of Africa’s most important protected areas and observe the behaviour of diverse animal taxa in natural ecological settings and how different species are responding to humans and their activities.
As we move through different African ecosystems, you will learn about the techniques for monitoring biodiversity and the threats they face.
With local experts, you will also explore how wildlife impacts local communities and how conservation strategies must increasingly incorporate the needs and wellbeing of people.
Throughout your fieldtrip, you will see an amazing wealth of biodiversity from mountains and forests to lakes and savannahs, meet a range of conservationists, and develop a deep understanding of the complexities of conservation.
All the while you will be developing your transferrable skills and spending a great deal of time with your lecturing staff and peers under African skies.
Read more about this fieldcourse option
UK field course option
The MSc in Conservation and Biodiversity with UK field course invites you to consider the meaning of the word “wild” in the UK.
Topics will include exploitation of the UK’s ecosystems, rewilding theory and action, conservation management and the behaviour and ecology of the UK’s fauna and flora.
This residential field course will perform a transect through Scotland’s hotspots of marine and terrestrial biodiversity, human-wildlife conflict and ecological restoration.
You will see the endangered wildlife of the UK, and meet the people who are stakeholders in their management or their conservation: National Park authorities; farmers; NatureScot employees; conservation charity managers; people delivering species translocations; researchers; ecological consultants; tourism operators and the general public.
Read more about the Rewilding the UK field course module
walking boots, rucksack.
This programme will provide you with a diversity of skills that will equip you for a range of sectors of work and further study.
The programme prepares students for careers in environmental NGOs, government conservation agencies and ecological consultancy companies in the UK and overseas.
The degree also offers thorough training in research skills and methods so provides an excellent basis for an academic career, with many students progressing directly to PhD positions.
Being part of a large research-intensive department such as the Centre for Ecology and Conservation means there are multiple extracurricular research seminars per week and frequent on-campus symposia and employability-focused seminars involving invited external stakeholders, offering extensive networking opportunities.
After working for several different organisations, I now work for the Joint Region Marianas Office (at the Guam National Wildlife Refuge) as the Conservation Resource Program Manager.
Through my 10-plus-year career since graduating, I would say that all of the coursework we studied in the MSc in Conservation and Biodiversity has surfaced at one time or another.
During the MSc, I gained some really invaluable basic skills that are rarely covered in most Masters programmes such as: how to design and present oral and poster presentation, preparing a quality CV, writing a grant proposal, etc.
I still have the instruction and templates from when I was a student and have referenced them several times during my professional career.
Read more from Jennifer
Jennifer
MSc Conservation and Biodiversity graduate

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ecology/evolutionary:
MSc Evolution, Behaviour and Ecology
Normally a 2:1 Honours degree or above in a relevant science subject
Programme Director: Dr Neeltje Boogert
This programme provides cutting-edge training in Evolution and Animal Behaviour and their application to Global Challenges, through inspirational teaching and practical, first-hand research experience.
By building transferable knowledge, skills and experience, the course acts as a stepping stone into ecology, research and conservation-facing careers.
The course is delivered by leading academics with global reputations in animal behaviour, evolution and conservation, and is based at the University’s internationally-renowned Centre for Ecology and Conservation on our Penryn campus in spectacular Cornwall.
Our award-winning core taught modules provide in depth coverage of the frontiers and modern methods of evolutionary and animal behaviour research, interactions with leading researchers and practitioners working at the interface between animal behaviour and global challenges, and outstanding training in statistical analysis.
As a major global centre for ecological research, we place a strong emphasis on teaching in the field.
The programme therefore includes a two-week taught field course to either the Galapagos Islands or the UK, depending upon the programme variant you choose.
A key strength of the programme is the opportunity to conduct a major independent research project embedded within one of our world-class research groups .
This allows students to deepen their technical knowledge, career-facing skills and research experience in the area that excites them most.
Taught modules (with International Field Course)
Through interactive seminars, discussions and practical activities led by experts in each area, you will build an advanced understanding of frontier topics in evolutionary biology and animal behaviour, and gain practical experience in the diverse modern research methods used in these fields.
You will also receive high-level training in the analytical and transferable skills needed for a career in research and the wider ecology sector.
On our field course in the Galapagos Islands you will gain first-hand experience studying animal behaviour in the wild, in the spectacular settings that have yielded many iconic advances in behavioural ecology.
180 credits of compulsory modules:
Taught modules (with UK Field Course)
On our Rewilding the UK field course, you will move among iconic wildlife sites in the UK, you will learn from conservation practitioners and stakeholders engaged in the challenges of rewilding developed landscapes.
Taught modules will be assessed through a variety of methods including oral and poster presentations, written research reports and literature reviews, during or upon completion of the modules.
A significant proportion of the overall assessment is based on the research project, which is to be written up in the form of a research paper.
Our programme is designed to be taken full time in one year or part time over two years.
We can customize the part-time experience, so do get in touch with the Programme Director if you’d like to discuss the options.
All students are allocated two tutors who are available for advice and pastoral support throughout your time with us.
We also foster a thriving and innovative postgraduate community within the Centre for Ecology and Conservation and the wider Graduate School of Environment and Sustainability on our Cornwall campus , of which you will become a member.
Social evolution is one key focus of our teaching, and our active research on cooperation and conflict in insect, bird and mammal societies provides great opportunities for research projects in this area.
Social interactions provide another key focus, with attention to their implications for information transfer, social learning, cognition, culture and the spread of disease.
Another major focus is microbial evolutionary ecology.
Our research groups focussed on microbial cooperation, community ecology, host-pathogen coevolution and the evolution of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) provide outstanding opportunities for research projects in this field.
Image © Tim Cockerill
Another key focus of teaching and research is understanding the origins of individual differences in animal life-histories and behaviour (so-called ‘personalities’).
Our teaching and research also focus on the evolution of infectious disease, with attention to coevolutionary interactions between hosts and pathogens and the evolutionary significance of the microbiome.
Another key focus is evolutionary and quantitative genetics, in which we seek to understand and ultimately predict evolutionary responses to environmental change.
The programme includes a two week taught field course to either the Galapagos Islands or the UK, depending upon the programme variant that you choose when you apply.
Travel and subsistence costs for the field course are included within the programme fee, which differs slightly for the two programme variants.
There may be additional costs entailed in the purchase of personal equipment (e.g.
walking boots and rucksack), visas or vaccinations.
In this module, you'll witness firsthand how ecological pressures shape evolutionary processes both on land and in the sea, and explore their significance for conserving the iconic wildlife of the Galapagos.
We’ll study the remarkable behaviours of species like marine iguanas and Darwin’s finches, using them as models to understand the challenges of researching animals in the wild.
Accommodation with local families provides an immersive cultural experience, contributing to a sustainable socio-economic model and enriching your time in the Galapagos.
On this course you will move among iconic wildlife sites in the UK, learning from a diverse range of practitioners and stakeholders engaged in the modern conservation practice of rewilding developed landscapes.
You will consider the meaning of the word “wild” in the UK, and learn the political, regulatory, economic, scientific, ecological and social opportunities and constraints that affect biodiversity conservation in our changing world.
This option provides a low-carbon field course destination, in line with our commitment to tackling the global climate emergency.
Galapagos Islands Field Course: explore evolution where it all began
Step into the footsteps of Charles Darwin and immerse yourself in the unparalleled natural beauty and scientific significance of the Galapagos islands.
Our Evolution and Behaviour Field Course offers students the rare opportunity to experience first-hand one of the most iconic locations on the planet for evolutionary biology and conservation research.
Over two unforgettable weeks on San Cristobal Island, you will conduct hands-on research under the guidance of scientists from the University of Exeter and the University of San Francisco de Quito’s Galapagos Science Center.
You’ll explore how ecological pressures shape species, from Darwin’s finches to marine iguanas, while developing key scientific skills through practical research activities.
During the course you’ll stay with local families for an immersive cultural experience that supports sustainable tourism, and you’ll work alongside leading experts in the field to study biodiversity and conservation.
Whether you're analysing genetic data or observing behavioural strategies in the wild, this course will deepen your understanding of evolutionary biology and animal behaviour, while building your overall confidence in the scientific process.
If you're passionate about biodiversity, behaviour and exploring the natural world, this course is an unmissable adventure!
UK Rewilding Field Course
The United Kingdom is economically highly developed, densely populated and intensively farmed and industrialised.
This human-dominated system makes life very challenging for the wildlife that shares our country with us, and for the biota that provides us with ecosystem services like pollination, clean air, freshwater and recreation.
Some of our precious biodiversity is considered “pest” or “weed” by people.
Many of our natural systems suffer invasion by non-native species.
Many of our natural habitats are degraded, fragmented, and very fragile in the face of anthropogenic climatic and environmental change.
Yet, the UK is at the forefront of global efforts to conserve, rescue, replenish or replace native biodiversity.
This residential field-course will perform a transect through the United Kingdom’s hotspots of terrestrial and marine biodiversity, human-wildlife conflict and ecological restoration.
You will see the endangered wildlife of the UK, and meet the people who are stakeholders in their management or their conservation: National Park authorities; farmers; government employees; conservation charity managers; people delivering species translocations; researchers; ecological consultants; tourism operators and the general public.
You will consider the meaning of the word “wild” in the UK, and you will learn the political, regulatory, economic, scientific, ecological and social opportunities and constraints that affect all attempts to conserve biodiversity in our changing world.
This course will help you develop subject-specific and transferable skills relevant to your future employment.
You will gain practical experience in wildlife identification; abundance and behavioural measurements; habitat monitoring; environmental stakeholder debates and focus groups; species translocations techniques, technologies and policies; critical appraisal of conservation evidence; presentation of rewilding information to broad audiences using a variety of formats including factsheets and posters.
Travel and subsistence costs for this part of the programme are included in the programme fee.
However, you may be required to provide your own specialist personal equipment appropriate to the field course destination, e.g.
walking boots, rucksack, binoculars.
This module has been designed specifically in response to the global Climate and Environment Emergency.
Wherever possible we will use non-airborne public transport and low-impact accommodation, and work, eat and play in ways that tread as lightly as possible on our environment.
Normally a 2:1 degree or above in a relevant science subject* is required, although applicants with a 2:1 degree in another subject will be considered if their CV and personal statement evidence significant relevant research experience.
*Relevant subjects include: Biology, Biosciences, Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, Geography,  Marine Biology, Natural Sciences, Zoology.
During your MSc you will join and train with a world-class community of researchers in organismal biology at our Centre for Ecology and Conservation in Cornwall.
It is the largest and fastest-growing institute of its kind in the UK, and hosts globally significant expertise in Evolutionary biology, Animal Behaviour, Ecology and Conservation Biology across an array of leading international research groups.
Our groups study a diverse range of organisms, from social mammals and birds to reptiles, fish, insects and microbes, and use a wide array of modern research methods.
Our research spans all of the key fields in Evolutionary and Behavioural Ecology, with particular strengths in Social Behaviour, Social Evolution, Cognition, Culture, Personality, Life-Histories and Ageing, Sexual Selection, Sensory Ecology, Migration, Microbial Evolution, Disease Ecology, Evolutionary Theory, and Quantitative Genetics.
With major research groups in Ecology and Conservation as well, we also excel in the application of Animal Behaviour expertise to conservation-facing challenges.
A key strength of the programme is the opportunity to the conduct an independent research project embedded within one of our 60+ world-class research groups at the Centre for Ecology and Conservation.
Our academics offer a wide variety of research projects both in the UK and abroad, spanning the full range of the evolutionary and animal behaviour expertise at the Centre and using a wide range of systems from the field to the lab.
After the first five months of taught modules, your primary focus will switch to your research project.
This approach allows you to build your core research skills before embarking on your project, and to use knowledge gained during the taught modules to inform your project choice.
It also allows you to focus exclusively on your research project without distraction, and offers geographical flexibility during the research project phase (e.g.
allowing you to pursue a project involving international fieldwork).
All of our MSc research projects are supported by a research budget of up to £1000 towards research costs entailed in the work.
This can be used to support research costs ranging from laboratory consumables to fieldwork travel and accommodation costs, depending on the nature of the project undertaken.
MSc research projects at the Centre for Ecology and Conservation have now led to student authorship on a staggering 150 publications and counting in peer-reviewed journals.
Nothing fast-tracks a research career better than a publication from your MSc .
Discover 10 of our most recent published MSc research projects
10 of our most recent published research projects with the MSc student as first author
Our programme is designed to prepare candidates for research and ecology-facing careers, whether within academia or the wider ecology and conservation sectors.
While many of our graduates go on to study for PhDs, the programme provides an excellent grounding for a wide range of post-graduate destinations linked to front-line research.
For examples of the diverse career destinations of our past graduates, check out interviews with our MSc alumni on the Graduate School of Environment and Sustainability blog .
During the course you will gain first-hand practical experience with a diverse range of modern methods in evolutionary and behavioural research, ranging from quantifying behaviour in the field to genetic sequencing and microbial research in the lab.
Your chosen research project provides an excellent opportunity to then deepen your practical skills and experience within the area that interests you most.
You will also develop the strong transferable skills needed to advance your career, including quantitative skills, scientific writing, public speaking, grant writing, CV writing, and the professional use of social media.
By joining a globally recognised centre of excellence in evolutionary, behavioural and conservation-facing research , you will have outstanding opportunities to build a network of contacts in your area of interest, drawing on the academic community here as well as the wide array of external stakeholders and researchers who join us in our regular research and employability seminar series.
Below are a few examples of the career destinations of graduates from the MSc Programmes here at the Centre for Ecology & Conservation.
You will also find examples of the career paths of our past graduates on the Graduate School of Environment and Sustainability blog .

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/biosciences/immunologymsc:
MSc Immunology
Streatham Campus and St Luke’s Campus
Minimum 2:1 in a relevant biological science/biomedical degree.
Programme Director: Professor William Horsnell
Substantial research project within one of our active research teams
Minimum 2:1 in a relevant biological science/biomedical degree that has provided instruction in some of the following: Biochemistry, Cell Biology, Immunology, Microbiology or Molecular Biology.
While we normally only accept students who meet this criterion, if you have a mid-2:2 or relevant work experience, we will consider your application.
We are looking for motivated graduates with a passion to understand and investigate the immune system.
A previous background in immunology is not essential, but desirable.
However, an undergraduate degree in a related discipline is essential.
Immunology is a vital field in biomedical science that underpins protection from infection.
It is applied to generate powerful treatments (such as vaccines against infection) and to innovative therapies for diseases like cancer (e.g.
through monoclonal antibody therapy).
While the immune response is essential to control infection, inappropriate immunity contributes to many pathologies such as autoimmunity and allergies.
Therefore, immunology is crucial to develop new treatments against a range of current and future health challenges.
In the first two terms of the MSc you'll deepen your understanding of immunology through advanced taught courses in immunology (Cellular Basis of Immunology, Immunology of Infection and Advanced Immunopathology) as well as a practical laboratory training module.
You will also undertake training in the more generic skills essential to scientific research (Professional Skills).
This will build your essential research and professional competencies.
In your final term, you'll join one of our active research teams to undertake a significant research project.
Here you will apply what you've learnt to tackle a novel research question.
Stage 1: 180 credits of compulsory modules
£14,900 full-time
£30,900 full-time
Please contact the programme director ( w.horsnell@exeter.ac.uk ) for information on funding opportunities available.
You’ll engage in a blend of lectures, seminars and hands-on laboratory work.
Group discussions and independent study will deepen your understanding and critical thinking skills.
These activities will prepare you for a research project in your final term.
You’ll join an active research group to undertake a significant project, with options for either laboratory-based or data-based work.
Laboratory projects will involve generating and acquiring new data, while data-based projects require processing and interpreting existing data.
The project will provide experience in data generation, analysis, interpretation and science communication through a scientific journal write-up and a presentation of results.
All projects will be addressing a genuine knowledge gap in our understanding of immunity.
Your learning will be assessed through a range of methods including your examinations, reports, presentations and essays.
A core component of assessment will be your research project, which constitutes 90 credits.
The University of Exeter has world class platforms to undertake high impact immunology research.
This includes the Exeter Centre for Cytomics , the Exeter Sequencing Facility , the Centre for Medical Mycology , the Bioimaging Centre and being home to an NIHR Biomedical Research Centre .
I am an immunologist with over 20 years of experience studying host immunity to infectious and non-infectious diseases.
I have undertaken my research in South Africa, Kenya, Togo, France, Norway and the UK.
This has allowed me to gain a breadth of experience in training students from a diverse range of backgrounds.
With my fantastic colleagues at Exeter we look forward to welcoming here.
We are confident you will find our understanding of immunology and the world class research platforms we will provide you with access to as ideal for you to begin your journey in advanced immunology.
I am a Professor in Paediatric Infectious Diseases Specialist and a Co-Director of the MRC Centre for Medical Mycology at the University of Exeter.
My research profile has a strong translational focus and specific areas of interest include antifungal resistance, antifungal stewardship, and host-fungus interactions.
I have spent over two decades in the exciting field of cytometry, driven by a passion for advancing scientific discovery and exploring new technological frontiers.
Flow cytometry is a powerful tool that helps us uncover the complexities of cellular systems, offering invaluable insights into immune responses and disease mechanisms.
My passion lies in harnessing these technologies to push the boundaries of what we know in biology, which began during my PhD at the University of Duisburg-Essen (Germany).
Today, as the Head of the Exeter Centre for Cytomics (EXCC), I lead a dynamic team focused on cutting-edge cytometry research and education.
At EXCC, we specialise in innovative single-cell cytomics approaches, critical for advancing immunology and life sciences.
We are dedicated to introducing these advancements to students, giving them a solid understanding of the latest cytometry tools and technologies in the field.
By combining high-resolution cytomics data analysis with biological insights, we aim to foster the next generation of scientists in immunology and life sciences, empowering them to make meaningful contributions to the field.
Our MSc Immunology course is designed to equip you with a range of skills highly valued by employers.
You will gain a deep understanding of the science and techniques needed to undertake research in immunology.
You will enhance your ability to communicate complex scientific concepts clearly and effectively, both in written reports and oral presentations.
Essential skills such as advocacy, public engagement and research integrity are central to the course, ensuring you are equipped to excel in various professional settings.
Additionally, you will acquire advanced training in generic technical, data management and problem-solving skills.
Upon graduation, you will have the skills and knowledge needed to explore various career options.
Whether you continue your academic journey with a PhD or transition directly into industry, this course provides a strong foundation for your future.
The combination of practical experience and advanced expertise you gain will prepare you for a range of roles.
Graduates may find themselves contributing to cutting-edge developments in pharmaceutical companies, working as clinical scientists, or translating complex scientific discoveries into accessible information.
As a University of Exeter student, you will also have access to the Career Zone .
Whatever stage you’re at, the Career Zone can help you prepare for life after university, offering quality assistance and advice throughout your course, and after graduation.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/biosciences/island-biodiversity:
MSc Island Biodiversity and Conservation
Jersey - Jersey International Centre of Advanced Studies
Normally at least a 2:1 Honours degree or equivalent in Biology or a relevant science subject
Programme Director: Dr Sean Dettman
MSc Island Biodiversity and Conservation has been designed and is delivered by JICAS in Jersey, with support from the University of Exeter as the accrediting institution.
Dissertation options across the globe
Substantial fieldwork modules in the Channel Islands and Canary Islands
Training future leaders, managers and policy makers in island biodiversity and conservation
Normally at least a 2:1 Honours degree or equivalent in Biology or a relevant science subject is required, although a 2:2 with relevant experience will be considered.
Relevant science subjects include Life Sciences: Biological Sciences, Zoology, Conservation, Environmental Science, Sustainable Development, Geography.
Applicants with significant, professional work experience seeking an academic qualification or the opportunity to enhance skills or knowledge in this field will also be considered.
Candidates may be asked to attend an interview (which may be by Skype, telephone or video link).
Please note, as this programme is delivered by Jersey International Centre of Advanced Studies, the University may need to share your data with a third party external organisation in order to reach a decision on, or progress your application.
In such circumstances we are committed to protecting your data in accordance with all relevant data protection legislation.
Human activities in most peopled islands are eroding the natural resource base on which not only the islanders themselves, but also the nonhuman species depend for survival.
Those vital resources include soil, water and the natural habitats of inland and coastal areas, all of which are affected by overexploitation, pollution, waste disposal and invasive species.
With the added burden of climate change, some small island nations are being pushed to their environmental limits.
Overcoming the challenges requires good scientific understanding of the island environment, adaptive management skills and solutions appropriate to island circumstances.
Read more from Dr Lee Durrell
Dr Lee Durrell
Chair, JICAS Steering Committee
Islands provide some of the planet’s most spectacular examples of biodiversity, making them important repositories of unique species.
Yet there are more endangered species and habitats per capita in Small Island Developing States and territories than anywhere else in the world.
This one-year taught Masters programme is an innovative course dedicated to the understanding and conservation of the biodiversity of islands throughout the world.
The programme boasts a significant research component with substantial fieldwork modules in the Channel Islands and Canary Islands, and dissertation options across the globe.
This applied degree provides a number of employability outcomes, including careers in management positions in global conservation NGOs, public conservation government ministries, organisations and departments, as well as technical positions in conservation and sustainability consultancies.
This degree also serves as a gateway to a PhD and other academic positions in leading conservation organisations and enterprises in the UK and abroad.
180 credits of compulsory modules
The situation on many islands is becoming critical as the area of undisturbed natural habitat diminishes.
The result is a relatively large number of endangered (and extinct) species in countries where the scientific and financial resources available to deal with the problem are very limited.
There are probably more endangered species per capita in Small Island Developing States and territories than anywhere else in the world.
While a number of countries have made great efforts in setting aside protected areas, the needs far exceed the means.
In addition, islands with limited land seldom can afford to create single purpose parks and reserves solely for nature conservation.
Solutions need to be more flexible and adapted to island circumstances.
Conservation areas which are created and managed by the traditional land owners represent the kind of creative approach to conservation needed in islands.
Read more from Professor Julia Fa
Professor Julia Fa
JICAS Senior Research Fellow
£17,750 full-time; £8,900 part-time
£33,350 full-time; £16,700 part-time
For more information on JICAS sponsored bursaries please visit the JICAS bursaries webpage .
Please note that this programme is not eligible for Chevening Scholarships.
All material is designed for Masters level and will involve fieldwork, seminars, webinars and lectures.
There is considerable scope for you to direct your own learning for the dissertation module, including opportunities to conduct your research in the Channel Islands, Canary Islands, Greece and other Mediterranean Islands, Seychelles, Anguilla, Montserrat, Cayman Islands and other UK Overseas Territories in the Caribbean and South Atlantic.
The viva is a key component of the programme and will consist of a one-day symposium where all students will carry out an oral presentation of their MSc dissertation.
This event will be streamed live on-line, and videos will be uploaded to the JICAS website.
The taught component of this programme is delivered in four-week blocks.
Each taught module is structured in the following way:
Week 1 – Students will review the material via the Virtual Learning Environment in preparation for the lectures.
Week 2 – The module leader will deliver 30 hours of lectures over five days.
Students are expected to attend all of the lectures, workshops and seminars during this week.
Weeks 3 and 4 – Students will work independently to complete all methods of assessment.
The lecturer(s) will maintain constant contact with all students, either virtually or institutionally, to help supervise the task(s).
The Programme Coordinator will always be on campus for additional support.
For all fieldwork-based modules, Week 2 will consist of fieldwork training and research.
All students will have direct access to the Programme Coordinator, who is available for advice and support throughout your studies at JICAS.
The allocation of a dissertation supervisor will be the result of an agreement between student and lecturer.
If no such agreement can be arranged, JICAS will provide a number of options in order to successfully complete the module.
This course has been designed to include a maximum fieldwork and research component.
You will spend a considerable amount of time in the field collecting data and conducting research.
This module will take place across Jersey, Channel Islands and consists of collecting data with proper statistical tools.
You will learn by combining both theoretical and practical lecturers about the scientific method and how to design and gather field data from different surveys on distinct taxonomic groups, including basic competency with Excel, Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and in-situ techniques such as small mammal and camera trapping.
This module consists of a ten-day study trip to Tenerife (Canary Islands), where several protected areas and conservation-related institutions are housed.
Led by Professor Robert Whitaker, JICAS students will work with staff and students at the University of LaLaguna to gain a deeper understanding of the environmental problems related with mass tourism and agriculture in Tenerife.
This ten-day study trip will undertake an intensive course of fieldwork and site visits across the island, culminating with a group project exploring the different natural areas of protection and species red lists existing in the Canaries.
The dissertation module has been designed to include the opportunity to conduct fieldwork in islands across the world.
JICAS has established links with Department of Environment, Jersey, Channel Islands; Department of Natural Resources, Guernsey, Channel Islands; Alderney Wildlife Trust, Alderney, Channel Islands; Department of Natural Resources and Climate Change, Greece, Mediterranean; The University of La Laguna, Tenerife, Canary Islands; UK Overseas Territories Conservation Forum; Department of Natural Resources, Anguilla, Caribbean; Central Caribbean Marine Institute, Cayman Islands; Marine Conservation Society, UK; South Atlantic Research Institute (SAERI) and more!
The aim of the degree is to train future leaders, managers and policy makers in island biodiversity and conservation.
Through integral collaboration with key players in the field of biodiversity and conservation, this MSc ensures the training you receive will prepare you for immediate employment both in the UK and abroad.
Our careers teams at the Career Zone at the University of Exeter can help guide you through a wealth of information to match your skills and interests to a career that will suit you.
This MSc also prepares you for a career in various academic positions and/or PhD study.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ecology/marineenv:
MSc Marine Environmental Management
Normally a 2:1 degree or above in a relevant science subject
Applications can be made from September for entry the following year.
Programme Director: Dr Julie Hawkins
MSc Marine Environmental Management with International field course
Fieldwork is an integral part of the programme and the location of the Penryn Campus provides excellent access to local marine and coastal environments, allowing short field trips to be embedded within the modules.
The field course to the Maldives will allow you to learn about the wonder of Maldivian coral reefs, their rich biodiversity, structure, functioning, threats from climate change, and management needs.
Daily practicals will involve snorkelling and also some diving for those with a Rescue Diver qualification.
During these you will practice a variety of the reef survey techniques taught.
Impacts of climate change and capacity for reef recovery are evident during fieldwork and your data will contribute to long-term monitoring of the reefs.
Topics covered in daily lectures will include coral reef ecology, human impacts to reefs, and taxonomy.
If you want to dive in Maldives, you will need to have a diving certification to the level of “Padi Rescue” or its equivalent and to have completed at least 15 dives, for which qualifying dives count towards the total.
Also, if you have done less than 20 dives, your last five must have occurred within 6 months of the start of the field course, which will begin in early April.
The cost of diving is covered by MSc fees for appropriately qualified people, although everyone must provide their own mask, fins and snorkel.
If you don’t have the criteria to dive, you can do all the module’s practical work via snorkelling
MSc Marine Environmental Management with UK field course
In line with our commitment to tackling the global climate emergency, we also offer Marine Environmental Management with a low-carbon UK field course destination.
This programme also offers lower tuition fees.
The UK field course allows you to consider the meaning of the world 'wild' in Britain.
Topics will include exploitation of the UK's ecosystems, global policy impact and the behaviour and ecology of the UK's fauna and flora.
This residential field course will perform a transect through the United Kingdom's hotspots of marine and terrestrial biodiversity, human-wildlife conflict and ecological restoration.
You will see endangered UK wildlife, and meet a variety of stakeholders including: National Park authorities; farmers; Natural England employees; conservation charity managers; people delivering species translocations; researchers; ecological consultants; tourism operators and the general public.
Being on a campus where everyone is interested in conservation, the environment and sustainability was such an encouraging environment to develop views and opinions, and discussing with different people about their research was very inspiring.
I had studied fisheries management solely from an ecological perspective until I took the Marine & Coastal Sustainability module, which completely turned around my view on the management of fisheries and convinced me of the need for interdisciplinarity in conservation and management.
Since graduating I moved to the Falkland Islands to work on fishing vessels and collect data for the Falkland Islands Government.
It can be quite a tough job, but it's teaching me so much on the amount and quality of data required to manage fisheries.
I'm so excited to apply everything I've learned in this position into managing fisheries!
I was a member of the Sea Swimming Society at Exeter, and am proud to say I'm continuing to do this in the South Atlantic, where the water is much colder than in Cornwall...
Read more from Lise, France
Lise, France
Scientific Fisheries Observer, Falkland Islands Government Studied MSc Marine Environmental Management, 2022
The ocean covers 71% of the surface of the Earth, but when depth is accounted for, occupies 97% of the volume of the biosphere.
This means that the sea and life within it has a profound influence on the processes which keep the planet habitable.
Yet until recently the ocean has been neglected in terms of management and protection, despite growing evidence of adverse impacts from a long list of human influences, such as overfishing, habitat damage and biodiversity loss, pollution, and climate change.
Global attention is now turning rapidly to how to safeguard ocean life and the people and industries that depend on it, leading to increasing demand for trained practitioners of marine environmental management.
MSc Marine Environmental Management delivers this training, giving you a thorough grounding in a wide diversity of marine ecosystems, their ecology, functioning, and values to people.
The programme explores the diverse ways in which human activities affect marine life and introduces management approaches to alleviate pressures from activities such as fisheries, tourism, coastal development and climate change.
It examines in depth the science and practice of creating and managing marine protected areas to safeguard marine life and promote human livelihoods and wellbeing.
Modules (International field course)
135 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules:
Module (UK field course)
Fees include costs of field trips.
If participating in the "International Field Course" to Maldives, you will need to cover the cost of getting a business visa for Maldives and a current HSE diving medical.
Logistical help will be provided for getting both.
If you don't want to dive all practical work can be done by snorkelling.
To be allowed to dive you must have certification that equates to the standard of 'PADI Rescue Diver'.
You are required to provide your own mask, fins, snorkel, booties, rash vest and swim shorts or leggings.
A wetsuit is not required for snorkelling but if you want a wetsuit for diving it should be thin as the water is 30oC.
A final potential cost that applies to all our MScs is any necessary "specific" cost associated with a Dissertation.
In recent years the University of Exeter’s marine education and research has been growing fast.
Our interdisciplinary marine research spans the humanities, physical, social and natural sciences.
Marine research groups, containing over 350 researchers, can be found in all of our Colleges and interdisciplinary research institutes.
Research is organised into nine major interdisciplinary themes which sees us working collaboratively with a wide range of partners locally, regionally and across the world’s oceans to shape positive changes in practice, policy and innovation.
The research groups include:
There is considerable scope for you to direct your learning towards fields of particular interest, especially through your choice of research project.
Research seminars will enable you to interact with a diversity of top academics and get to know about their ongoing research.
A large number of Exeter academics will be involved with this programme and they will offer a great diversity of research topics in the UK and overseas.
Taught modules will be assessed through formal oral presentation, written reports, essays and discussions, during or upon the immediate completion of the modules.
The research project makes up a significant proportion of the assessment and is mainly based on the dissertation write up.
You will become part of Exeter's Graduate School of Environment & Sustainability - a vibrant and supportive postgraduate community based here on our Penryn campus in Cornwall.
Dr Julie Hawkins, Programme Director, studies human impacts on marine ecosystems and how to alleviate them.
Her field research is primarily on coral reefs, documenting the impacts of fishing and tourism, and devising strategies to secure greater protection.
She is particularly interested in how marine protected areas can be designed and managed to protect wildlife and habitats, boost surrounding fisheries and promote more sustainable livelihoods.
Julie’s research also looks at the global need to scale up protection by building networks of protected areas to help recover ocean ecosystems and enhance resilience to climate change.
Callum’s research focuses on threats to marine ecosystems and species and on finding the means to protect them.
His team provided the scientific underpinning for a new ocean protection target – 30% by 2030 – which is gaining widespread international support.
He is an award-winning author and was chief scientific advisor for the BBC’s flagship series “Blue Planet II”.
He is chief scientific advisor to BLUE Marine Foundation and the Maldives Coral Institute, an Ambassador for WWF UK, and board member of the Nekton Deep Ocean Research Institute.
Profile page @ProfCallum
Annette’s research focuses on the exploitation and status of marine vertebrate populations, in particular marine turtles, utilising satellite tracking and mark and recapture to understand the thermal ecology, sex ratios, habitat use, navigational abilities, growth rates and fecundity of individuals.
Given the importance of the thermal environment on reptilian species, the potential effects of global climate change are a major issue for this group, and a focus for her research.
Annette runs a long-term field study of the marine turtle populations in Cyprus.
Kristian is a conservation scientist with wide ranging interests in biodiversity conservation.
His research focuses on decision making for the assessment, protection, and management of marine biodiversity, with particular emphasis on marine spatial planning and the design of marine protected area networks (MPAs) in the UK, and in West and Central Africa.
Kristian is also interested in how novel technologies such as satellite/GPS tracking can be used to understand the behaviour and distribution of marine vertebrates and small-scale fishers to inform the development of priority areas, and resolve conflicts in marine space.
Profile page @_KMETCALFE
Rachel is an environmental social scientist focusing on marine resource governance and coastal communities.
Her research focuses on understanding how socio-economic and environmental contexts drive resource use behaviour and have implications for management and governance systems.
Her recent research has explored marine resource dependence and identification of supportive governance structures for effective Caribbean coral reef management.
Erik studies the individual and population-level causes and consequences of variation in the traits related to the most important events in an individual's life, including: birth, mate choice, reproduction and death.
To this end Erik uses individual-based, long-term data for a range of species, including rodents and humans.
This programme will provide you with a diversity of skills that will equip you for a range of sectors of work and further study of marine environments.
The programme will prepare students for careers in environmental NGOs, fisheries management bodies, government agencies, consultancy companies and marine-related businesses such as aquaculture, shipping, offshore energy, etc.
The degree also offers a thorough training in research skills and methods so provides an excellent basis for an academic career.
Being part of a large research-intensive department such as the Centre for Ecology and Conservation means there are multiple extracurricular research seminars per week and frequent on-campus symposia and employability focused seminars involving invited external stakeholders offering extensive networking opportunities.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/ecology/marine:
MSc Marine Vertebrate Ecology and Conservation
Normally at least a high 2:1 Honours degree or equivalent in a relevant science subject
Programme Director: Dr Kristian Metcalfe
Normally a 2:1 degree or above in a relevant science subject* is required, although we will consider all applications with a 2.1 where there is evidence of exceptional performance in modules relevant to the programme of study (research and/or numerical skills), and/or significant relevant work experience of 2+ years.
*Relevant subjects include: Biology, Biosciences, Ecology, Geography, Marine Biology, Marine Sciences, Natural Sciences and Zoology.
I've really enjoyed the course and have loved getting a completely comprehensive view of marine vertebrates in all forms.
Cornwall is beautiful and absolutely nothing like what I thought England was like.
Every day I get the opportunity to see new species of fauna and flora, different weathers and living by the sea is absolutely incredible.
We have had specific lecturers on topics like sensory and historical ecology, things I didn’t know were specific avenues until starting the course, but have proven to be fascinating to learn about.
We continue to learn about and focus on each avenue across the broad spectrum of marine vertebrate conservation.
We’ve also had virtual coffee breaks where we've been able to speak with lecturers or research scientists in the field on areas that aren't covered in the syllabus if we want to learn more.
Read more from Tess
Tess
From the USA, studying MSc Marine Vertebrate Ecology and Conservation
Delivered by internationally-recognised experts with global reputations in marine ecology and conservation, this course will provide you with a diversity of skills that will equip you for a range of sectors of work and further study of marine vertebrates.
Through workshops and field trips you will develop identification and survey skills and an appreciation of the conservation and management of marine vertebrates.
Research seminars will see you interacting with a wide range of our renowned academics and their research.
This will mean that you will be exposed to many of the research topics being offered by staff for research projects.
You will undertake a marine vertebrate research project within the research groups of our world-leading academics.
These projects will be in the UK or abroad and many will be in conjunction with our extensive network of partner organisations in the UK and around the world.
When participating in field courses, you will need to cover the cost of any visas and relevant immunisations, if necessary.
Additional costs may be incurred for your research project, depending on what you choose to study.
Image credit: Philip Doherty
Our marine-related research spans the humanities, physical, social and natural sciences.
Marine research groups, containing over 350 researchers, can be found in all of our Faculties and Interdisciplinary Research Institutes.
Within modules there is considerable scope for you to direct your learning towards fields of particular interest, especially through your choice of research project.
Postgraduate students join a community of world-leading marine vertebrate ecologists in the UK, with leading researchers working on sharks, marine turtles, seabirds and marine mammals in the UK and around the world.
Staff work with an extensive network of stakeholder organisations to codevelop research projects.
Partners have recently included: Archelon, Beneath the Waves, British Antarctic Survey, British Divers Marinelife Rescue, Cetacean Research and Rescue Unit, Cornwall Wildlife Trust, Manta Trust, Marinelife, Natural England, Plymouth Marine Lab, ProDelphinus, Sea Mammal Research Unit, Sea Turtle Conservancy, Seychelles Island Foundation, Shark Trust, Society for the Protection of Turtles, Whale and Dolphin Conservation and Zoological Society of London.
Taught modules will be assessed through formal oral presentation, written reports and discussions, during or upon the immediate completion of these modules.
Dr Kristian Metcalfe is an Associate Professor in Marine Conservation Science.
He is an internationally recognised expert in the design, management and monitoring of marine protected areas with his research providing the scientific evidence on the current status of ecological communities within MPAs in the United Kingdom and underpinning the creation of 24 new MPAs covering >60,000 km2 across Gabon, Republic of the Congo and Côte d’Ivoire (Ivory Coast).
Professor Godley is a conservation scientist with wide ranging interests in biodiversity conservation.
His research largely focuses on the study of marine vertebrates (turtles, mammals, birds and sharks).
In the last few years, Professor Godley has spent ever more efforts on interdisciplinary approaches to conservation research, including focusing on the issue of microplastics in our oceans.
Profile page @BrendanGodley Sea turtle tracking site
Dr Postma studies the individual and population-level causes and consequences of variation in the traits related to the most important events in an individual's life, including birth, mate choice, reproduction and death.
He uses individual-based, long-term data for a range of species, including rodents and humans.
Dr Hobson’s research and professional career has been focused on marine ecology and conservation, concentrating on the how mobile marine species interact with their environments using animal attached technologies, particularly jellyfish, turtles and fish.
Dr Hobson has also worked as a marine ecology consultant and is a committee member of the Cornwall Inshore Fisheries and Conservation Authority.
Profile page @VJHobson
Dr Chaigneau is an environmental social scientist who studies the relationship between the natural environment and peoples’ wellbeing.
This involves understanding how individuals derive wellbeing from the coast but also how their actions can impact their adjacent environment.
His research has primarily focused along the coast and has recently explored the links between coastal ecosystem services and wellbeing in East Africa.
It has also investigated the social impact of Marine Protected Areas on communities and community support towards these interventions.
Profile page @tomas_chaigneau
We will undertake extensive fieldwork in waters of the UK, including Cornwall.
You will become proficient in marine vertebrate identification, become a qualified marine mammal observer (MMO), become a trained marine mammal medic as well as becoming familiar with marine vertebrate necropsy protocols, baited remote underwater video and passive acoustic monitoring.
Please note that some field courses may incur additional costs - see the Fees section for more information.
This programme will provide you with a diversity of skills that will equip you for a range of sectors of work and further study of marine vertebrates.
Skills will include:
Generic transferrable skills include:
Being part of a large research-intensive department such as Ecology and Conservation means there are multiple extracurricular research seminars per week and frequent on-campus symposia and employability focussed seminars involving invited external stakeholders, offering extensive networking opportunities.
Below are a few examples of initial jobs undertaken by graduates of our Biosciences postgraduate courses.
This information has been taken from the Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) Survey 2016/17.
Further study is a popular choice for a number of students following graduation from our Biosciences Masters courses.
The MSc Marine Vertebrate Ecology course will equip you with the necessary skills to pursue further study once completing the course.
The biggest highlight of studying at Exeter was that it was a key milestone in my career to broaden my view on biodiversity conservation and ecotourism.
The lecturers were very dynamic and the several field trips allowed students to gain significant experience.
The University support for overseas students (e.g, support in English for essays, etc) was also very useful.
I enjoyed the dynamism of the course.
It was a very intensive year with a lot of learning.
After graduating from Exeter, I came back to Cabo Verde and worked at the National Directorate of Environment.
My role was to follow up the management plans of protected areas and species conservation, I was also the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Political Focal Point and Ramsar Convention Focal Point.
I then left the government and founded an NGO called Lantuna.
I have been implementing biodiversity conservation projects in Cabo Verde and I also do consultancy services.
At the present, I am coordinating the Cabo Verde seabirds project for BirdLife International.
Read more from Ana
Ana
Centre for Ecology and Conservation graduate

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/online/courses/mycologyonline:
MSc Medical Mycology (online) - 2026 entry
Programme Director: Professor Mark Ramsdale Deputy Programme Director: Professor Adilia Warris
A 2:2 degree in a relevant biological science, or suitable professional experience.
Applicants must also be working in a suitable professional setting.
Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) Medical Mycology
Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert) Medical Mycology
A degree in a relevant biological science, or suitable professional experience.
Request more information
Email: online@exeter.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)1392 724306
Study with the world-leading MRC Centre for Medical Mycology
Taught in collaboration with members of the British Society of Medical Mycology
A degree in a relevant biological science (e.g.
microbiology or another biomedical science course), or suitable professional experience.
A degree at 2:2 level with 57% and above in a relevant biological science (e.g.
microbiology or another biomedical science course), or a medical or dental degree with a minimum of 12 months postgraduate clinical experience (completion of UK Medical or Dental Foundation Year 1 competencies) or satisfactory completion of the PGCert.
Entrants for the MSc and Postgraduate Diploma must be working in a suitable professional setting to complete the project-based elements.
The required test scores for this course fall under Profile B2 .
Find out more about our English language requirements .
This programme will enhance the knowledge, skills and experience of individuals working in the field of medical mycology via online and reflective learning, and for the full Master's qualification, a research project / dissertation.
The objectives of the programme are to provide knowledge in all aspects of medical mycology including:
Stage 1 (PGCert)
60 credits of compulsory modules.
Stage 2 (PGDip)
30 credits of compulsory modules, 30 credits of optional modules.
Stage 3 (MSc)
Overall this makes the three-stage MSc £15,000, the two-stage PGDip £10,000 and the single-stage PGCert £5,000.
The University of Exeter is committed to ensuring that knowledge of Medical Mycology is disseminated as widely possible.
Therefore, we are pleased to offer scholarships for candidates from low and middle income countries applying to study the Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert) Medical Mycology, which is Stage 1 of the MSc Medical Mycology Online programme, starting in September 2025.
These scholarships will be awarded as a tuition fee discount of £1,050 for each module of the PGCert, offering a total saving of £4,200 on the cost of Stage 1.
Find out more about the Medical Mycology Online Programme Scholarship 2025 .
The University of Exeter has many different scholarships available to support your education, including £5 million in scholarships for international students applying to study with us in the 2025/26 academic year, such as our Exeter Excellence Scholarships * .
The programme consists of core modules that provide you with a learning framework for directed student-centred learning in which you will develop knowledge, skills and experience in the fields of medical mycology.
The course will be run by academics residing within the MRC Centre for Medical Mycology and members of the British Society for Medical Mycology.
Professor Mark Ramsdale is a fungal cell biologist with interests in host-pathogen interactions and the link between cellular stress responses and programmed cell death in fungi.
Past research has also focussed on antifungal drug discovery, fungal circadian rhythms and fungal population genetics.
Professor Ramsdale was Director of Education for Biosciences at Exeter from 2015 to 2020.
He is the programme lead for the online MSc in Medical Mycology and has a long standing interest in supporting students in higher education.
Professor Adilia Warris is a paediatric infectious diseases specialist and a co-director of the MRC Centre for Medical Mycology.
Her research interest focusses on fungal infections in children, host-fungus interactions in special patient populations (cystic fibrosis, primary immunodeficiencies), antifungal resistance and antifungal stewardship.
She has trained several clinical fellows in paediatric infectious diseases and medical mycology and is involved in numerous teaching activities focussing on medical mycology.
Professor Warris is the deputy programme lead for the MSc in Medical Mycology.
Graduates from this programme will have a wide knowledge of medical mycology, fungal immunology, infection, mycoses, antifungal therapy and fungal diagnostics.
Thus, graduates will contribute to the development of capacity in the field of medical mycology.
We will help direct you towards careers in support of clinical services in the NHS and other healthcare providers around the world, as well as commercial enterprise in the pharmaceutical and diagnostic industries.
The programme will build confidence in research skills and provide a network for students to engage with colleagues around the world, enabling you to develop national and international profiles aligning with the University of Exeter mission to train active global citizens.
Apply now for January 2026 entry »

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/business/business_analytics:
A 2:1 with honours.
Apply for January 2026 entry
Programme Director: Dr Suman Saha (January start)
Programme Director: Dr Stuart So (September start)
Master your future in Management at the University of Exeter.
26th for diversity and top 90 for employability globally for Business Analytics
QS Business Master’s Rankings 2025
Spend an additional semester studying at one of the prestigious academic partners with our QTEM Programme
Studying Business Analytics opened so many new horizons for me.
When I began the course, I had no prior knowledge of coding, but the U niversity offered numerous free workshops to learn programming languages.
MSc Business Analytics graduate
A 2:1 with honours or equivalent in any discipline.
We do consider all applications where there is evidence of exceptional performance in modules relevant to the programme of study, significant relevant work experience or professional qualifications.
The MSc Business Analytics programme is for you if you are interested in a career related to business analytics or you wish to study a related PhD.
You will learn how to support managers to make data driven decisions using a variety of techniques.
Our core modules provide an excellent foundation in business analytics, basic programming and mathematical skills, as well as techniques to present and communicate data to managers.
Our choice of optional modules ensure you can flex the programme to suit your interests and career or research aspirations.
Our Business Analytics programme is inspired by global challenges and draws upon the University of Exeter’s world-leading environmental research.
There are increasing pressures on business to manage and report climate exposure in their supply chain and investment portfolios, mitigate risk of climate change and natural hazards on their operations, and manage their wider environmental impacts.
You will learn about these challenges, and how business analytics approaches can support businesses in overcoming them.
You will complete a research project (Business Project) supervised by an academic from the Business and Management department.
Your project will be based around a sizeable business problem that draws upon your newly developed business analytics skills.
The programme is delivered over three terms and is University-based throughout this time.
The taught components of the programme are delivered in the first two terms, leaving the third term to complete your Business Project.
The programme runs from September to September or January to January depending on your chosen start month.
60 credits of optional modules from the following closed list:
£ 18,600 full-time
£ 30,700 full-time
Our Exeter Excellence Scholarships are also available for applicants looking to study with us in January 2026 and applications for these scholarships will open in September.
It was such an honour for me to receive a scholarship award from Exeter.
I felt like I had something to contribute to the university as a student, not only on an educational level, but on a professional level too.
Phuong
Our MSc Business Analytics programme delivers a dynamic learning experience through lectures, workshops, practical sessions, practitioner insight seminars, private study, case study development, group work, individual projects, and collaboration with industry partners.
You will benefit from the cutting-edge teaching environment and support resources at the University of Exeter Business School (UEBS), including the Centre for Innovation in Business Education .
This centre fosters innovative teaching and learning practices by coordinating assessment, feedback, group work, and digital literacy projects.
Staff benefit from seminars, training sessions, and an advanced Teaching Collaboratory (ELE) for online staff development, ensuring teaching excellence and a world-class student learning experience.
Your learning will be assessed through practical exercises, project work, written assignments, presentations, multiple-choice tests, and examinations.
This provides a well-rounded approach to your academic and professional development.
The University has invested £50 million in the development of its Data Science and Artificial Intelligence capabilities.
The Accelerating Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (ADA) project has been running since 2023 and has invested in teaching, research and infrastructure which this programme benefits from.
You will be taught by internationally respected academics who are at the forefront of their fields and actively contribute to UEBS's vibrant research culture.
The programme is embedded within the Operations and Analytics group , a multidisciplinary team of academics from our Department of Management.
The Centre for Simulation and Analytics Management (CSAM) plays a key role in supporting research and teaching within the programme.
CSAM focuses on analytical modelling and computer simulation to address real-world problems.
The centre is involved in impactful projects such as:
The Business School's research environment has been recognised for its excellence, with 100% of our Business and Management research rated as internationally excellent in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 .
Read more about research at the Business School and how our academics drive innovation and sustainability across industries.
Our strong connections with professional organisations such as the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development (CIPD) enrich our programme with industry insights, ensuring that the curriculum is aligned with professional standards and real-world needs.
Through innovative and practical learning you will have the ability to use data and analytics confidently and creatively, in order to resolve a wide range of operational and strategic problems that face global organisations across multiple sectors.
The QS Business Master's Ranking 2025: Business Analytics is made up of five Indicator Groups – within the Diversity Indicator Group our MSc Business Analytics programme ranks 26th globally and on Employability ranks top 90 globally .
Our diverse student and staff population - giving you benefits in terms of networking, cultural exchanges and a more diverse learning experience - together with our strength in employability, mean that you have the support you need to get the career you are looking for.
After graduation, you will join our community of more than 26,000 Business School alumni in over 150 different countries who are actively shaping the world around us.
Graduates can look to work in a diverse range of roles including:
Opportunities range from working in large analytics and consultancy teams within corporations in sectors such as consulting, tech and finance, through to specialist analytical roles in areas such as procurement, HR, and marketing within smaller private, public and third sector organisations.
The increasing importance of analytics skills within Executive Management teams means that students will also be well placed to succeed in Graduate Management schemes.
The University of Exeter Business School provides a range of support to help you develop skills attractive to employers.
Visit our postgraduate Business School careers service web page for more information.
After your first year of studies at Exeter, you can apply to progress onto the QTEM Programme .
QTEM aims to prepare students with excellent quantitative and analytical skills to support their future careers as decision makers leading the global business environment.
If you are accepted onto the QTEM Programme, you will spend an additional semester studying at one of the prestigious academic partners.
This will be followed by a quantitatively focussed internship and participation in the QTEM Data Challenge which includes online data science and leadership courses as well real data analysis.
Students will be selected and nominated to QTEM by the University of Exeter Business School following a competitive internal application process.
Places are limited so we recommend you register your interest before applying for your Masters.
*Open to high achieving students enrolled in the following University of Exeter Business School programmes: MSc Financial Economics , MSc Finance , MSc Finance and Investment , MSc Economics , and MSc Business Analytics.
For more information on QTEM and Double Degrees and other postgraduate study abroad opportunities, visit the Business School’s Study Abroad webpages .
View all Business and Management courses View all Data Science and Analytics courses

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/business/business-ai:
MSc Business and AI
2:1 Honours degree or above in any discipline and GCSE Mathematics or equivalent.
Programme Director: Professor Alex Janes
Top 10 in the UK for Business graduate prospects
Complete University Guide 2025
Top 10 in the UK for world-leading research in Business and Management
(Based on research rated 4* and 3* in the Research Excellence Framework 2021)
A 2:1 Honours degree or above in any discipline and GCSE Mathematics or equivalent.
The Graduate Diploma in Management run by the INTO University of Exeter Centre is a pre-Masters programme designed to enhance your subject knowledge, study skills and English ability.
Successful completion of the Diploma (subject to achieving the specific grades of entry) gives students from overseas the skills needed for acceptance onto this Masters programme.
The MSc Business and AI is a cutting-edge, interdisciplinary course designed to equip you with the skills to lead in the era of intelligent business.
Delivered jointly by the Business School and the Department of Computer Science, this innovative course bridges the gap between advanced artificial intelligence techniques and real-world business strategy.
You will explore a dynamic blend of subjects, including Machine Learning, Data Science, Strategic Innovation Management, and AI’s impact on Business and Society.
Practical modules such as Programming for Business Analytics and a hands-on Business and AI Consultancy Project ensure graduates gain both technical expertise and strategic insight.
A unique feature of the programme is its strong industry integration.
You will benefit from guest lectures by leading academics and industry practitioners, giving you direct exposure to current trends and challenges in AI-driven business environments.
The course launches with a fast-paced induction hackathon, encouraging immediate collaboration, creativity, and problem-solving.
150 credits of compulsory modules; 30 credits of optional modules:
150 credits of compulsory modules:
30 credits of optional modules:
£18,600 full-time
£30,700 full-time
The programme is delivered through a mix of lectures, seminars, tutorials, guest lectures, presentations, case studies and project work.
You will be allocated a Personal Tutor who is available for advice and support throughout your studies, along with support and mentoring from graduates who are now in industry.
There is also a Postgraduate Tutor available to help with further guidance and advice.
Our research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 and we believe every student benefits from being taught by experts active in research and practice.
Our research-led teaching is combined with practical experiences, so that you can apply your learning to real world scenarios.
Upon graduation, you will have the skills and knowledge to pursue the career you want, wherever in the world you choose to work.
The Business School is home to the following research centres:
Given the rapid growth of AI use in business and management, employers are looking for graduates with a strong knowledge of how to apply this technology to the problems and challenges they face.
On graduation you will have the skills to enter an in-demand area of business and management and work on innovative solutions for your organisation.
Graduates of this programme will be prepared to step into roles across a wide range of industries where AI helps to drive organisational growth.
Examples of the types of roles might be of interest to graduates might include, Business Transformation Consultant, Customer Insights Specialist, Strategic Innovation Advisor, AI Business Analyst, Innovation Manager.
The degree’s emphasis on how AI has and is changing the nature of the workplace, as well as ethical and legal issues, such as privacy and intellectual property (IP) opens pathways in corporate strategy or innovation management.
Some graduates will leverage these skills to develop entrepreneurial ventures or join fast-growing start-ups, where the ability to innovate rapidly and communicate value to stakeholders is highly prized.
For those who wish to continue their academic journey, the rigorous, research-informed curriculum provides a sound foundation for pursuing advanced study at doctoral level.
Across these career routes, graduates benefit from the University’s strong links to professional networks and its commitment to ongoing personal development, ensuring that the knowledge and capabilities gained remain relevant in the face of shifting market demands.
Visit our postgraduate Business School careers service web page for more information.

New sentences found on https://exeter.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/courses/business/business-management:
MSc Business and Management
2:2 Honours degree.
Programme Director: Dr Suman Saha
100% of our research in Business and Management has internationally excellent impact
Recognised as an exemplar programme
Hinrich Foundation
A 2:2 with honours in any discipline from a recognised university.
MSc Business and Management will help you develop an advanced and critical understanding of organisations and their management, cultures and structures as well as wider economic, environmental and social contexts.
You will develop an ability to apply knowledge and understanding of business and management to complex or difficult issues, both systematically and creatively, to improve business and management practice, including within an international context.
You will develop a broad foundation of knowledge and critical analysis skills to understand and drive improvements in a variety of business contexts.
You will gain a critical understanding of organisations, how they operate, innovate and manage their workforce.
You will also study the theoretical foundations of international business and the various external factors that influence trade.
The final capstone business plan module integrates your cross-disciplinary insights into a practical project, allowing you to apply your acquired knowledge to analyse and create a business plan.
This will help you to build your own personal portfolio that you can showcase to potential employers.
The University of Exeter provides an ideal setting for you to understand cross-cultural issues that will uniquely equip you to compete in today’s global marketplace.
135 credits of compulsory modules, 45 credits of optional modules
Our research is rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 .
Our research-led teaching is combined with practical experiences such as field trips and project work, so that you can apply your learning to real world scenarios.
Our programmes cover a range of disciplines including entrepreneurship, international business, marketing, human resource management, and tourism.
With strong links to organisations across the private, public and not-for-profit sectors, and with professional organisations such as the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development (CIPD), we ensure that your Masters degree is widely recognised in today’s global marketplace.
This programme has been designed for ambitious students who want to launch a career across international cultures and be able to apply a global context to a variety of businesses, wherever in the world they choose to work.
As part of your learning experience you will attend specialist practical workshops equipping you with the knowledge and skills to tackle real world problems.