# Site: https://www.gla.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 495
# --------

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk:
The University of Glasgow uses cookies for analytics.
Find out more about our Privacy policy .
privacy settings accept
Necessary cookies enable core functionality.
The website cannot function properly without these cookies, and can only be disabled by changing your browser preferences.
Analytical cookies help us improve our website.
We use Google Analytics.
All data is anonymised.
Clarity helps us to understand our users’ behaviour by visually representing their clicks, taps and scrolling.
Privacy policy
close
Our diverse University community attracts students and staff from more than 140 different countries.
Ukraine: our response
More about studying at Glasgow
Multiple funded PhD scholarships available:
All our Centres for Doctoral Training
Developing our successful research community
More about research at Glasgow
The University of Glasgow is a world top 100 university.
Over the last decade, the University of Glasgow has significantly invested in its estate to expand its world-class campus and facilities.
For over 560 years, Glasgow has established partnerships with institutions, colleagues and students across the world.
More news ...
Explore more
Searching for 'Ma' will find all surnames beginning with Ma, searching for 'Mac' will find all surnames beginning with Mac, searching for 'Macdonald' will find all Macdonalds.
Find out more about our £1billion development to build a campus fit for today and the future.
Stay in touch with your University.
Find out more about alumni activities at the University of Glasgow.
Working with the University of Glasgow: see how we can share our expertise with you.
Find all the contact details you need to get in touch with someone who can help answer your questions.
Make more connections
The University of Glasgow is a registered Scottish charity: Registration Number SC004401

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/legal/privacy:
This statement outlines the information gathered during your visit to the University of Glasgow's central web servers and explains how this information is treated.
If you choose to request information from this site you will need to pass personal data to the University through this site.
Where you actively provide personal data to the University [for example, by completing a web form] this data will be used only for the service you have requested unless you consent otherwise at the time of submitting the data.
The gathering, storage, use, release and disposal of personal information is regulated by the General Data Protection Regulation.
The University's policy and guidelines with respect to the regulations, are published by the Data Protection and Freedom of Information Office.
The University's website does not automatically capture or store personal data from visitors to the site, other than to log your IP address and session information.
Session information includes the time and duration of your visit to the site, the files requested, and the browser used.
This information will only be accessed by authorised persons of the University of Glasgow or its agents.
The information will be retained by the University and will only be used for the purpose of (a) managing the site system, (b)  the identification of broken links, and (c) for statistical and audit purposes.
You may occasionally be asked to provide personal information to gain access to specific services.
The processing and retention of this information will be explained at the point of collection.
This privacy policy does not cover the links within this site to other non-University sites nor the content of external internet sites.
Cookies are small text files placed on your device by the web server via your browser, and may be used to collect information to help identify you and prepare customised pages for you.
Cookies may remain on your computer either for the duration of the session or indefinitely.
You can configure most standard web browsers to refuse cookies.
Occasionally, we give users the opportunity to save settings for viewing pages.
This involves the setting of a cookie.
We do not track such cookies.
Information on cookies can be obtained from www.allaboutcookies.org .
Adjust your preferences
+++
The University and our authorised agents make use of Google Analytics to produce anonymised statistics on website usage: to help us to improve our site and the experience of our users.
Google Analytics uses cookies in this process.
The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States.
Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage.
Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf.
All data collected is anonymised.
The main GA4 cookies are set by the gtag.js library and have specific roles:
_ga : This is the primary cookie used to distinguish individual users .
It assigns a unique identifier (Client ID) to each visitor, allowing GA4 to track their activity over multiple sessions.
Persistence : 2 years
_ga_<container-id> : This cookie is used to persist session state .
It's crucial for understanding user activity within a single session, tracking details like session duration, and ensuring that GA4 can accurately link a user's actions to a specific visit.
_gac_gb_<container-id> : This cookie contains campaign-related information .
It's set when a user arrives from a Google Ads campaign and is used to track conversions and attribute them correctly to the ad.
Persistence : 90 days
It's important to note that while the default expiration for some of these cookies is set to two years, browser policies (like Safari's Intelligent Tracking Prevention) can enforce a shorter lifespan, often limiting them to a maximum of 400 days or 7 days.
Browser-level settings : Most modern browsers have settings that allow you to block all cookies or specific types of cookies.
Disabling cookies will prevent GA4 from setting them, but it may also affect the functionality of other websites.
Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on : Google provides a dedicated browser add-on that prevents the GA4 JavaScript ( gtag.js ) from sharing information with Google Analytics.
This is a simple and effective way to opt out of tracking without affecting other website features.
Ad personalization settings : Users can manage their ad settings in their Google account to opt out of ads based on their interests.
While this doesn't stop all data collection, it does prevent some of the data from being used for personalized advertising.
---
Microsoft Clarity is a free web analytics tool that provides heatmaps, session recordings, and other behavioral insights to help website owners understand user interactions.
Like other analytics platforms, it uses cookies to function.
Microsoft Clarity sets several cookies to track user sessions and behavior:
_clck : This cookie is used to persist the Clarity User ID and preferences .
It ensures that a user's actions on the same website are linked to a consistent user ID across multiple visits.
Persistence : 1 year
_clsk : This cookie's purpose is to connect a user's multiple page views into a single Clarity session recording .
This is crucial for the session replay feature.
Persistence : 1 day
CLID : This cookie identifies the first time a user has been seen on any website that uses Clarity .
ANONCHK : This cookie indicates whether a Microsoft User ID ( MUID ) is transferred to a Microsoft advertising cookie ( ANID ).
For Clarity, this is always set to 0, meaning it doesn't use the ANID cookie for advertising purposes.
Persistence : 10 minutes
MUID : This cookie is set by Microsoft to identify unique web browsers visiting Microsoft sites.
It's used for advertising, site analytics, and other operational purposes.
Persistence : 1 year and 24 days
SM : This is used to synchronize the MUID across different Microsoft domains .
Persistence : Session
Because Microsoft Clarity uses cookies that track user behavior, even without collecting personally identifiable information (PII) like names or emails, it is subject to data privacy laws like the GDPR.
These laws require explicit, opt-in consent from users before these cookies can be placed on their devices.
Digital Advertising Alliance (DAA) opt-out : Microsoft utilizes the DAA system to provide opt-out experiences for customers.
Users can opt out of Microsoft telemetry by visiting the DAA's consumer choice page and selecting Microsoft from the list of companies.
Global Privacy Control (GPC) : Microsoft Clarity supports Global Privacy Control, a browser-level setting that automatically signals a user's privacy preference to websites.
If a user has GPC enabled, Clarity should respect that signal and disable tracking.
Browser-level settings : Users can configure their web browser settings to block all cookies or to specifically block cookies from certain domains.
However, this may affect the functionality of other websites.
Baidu Analytics is a web analytics service offered by Baidu, primarily used by websites targeting the Chinese market.
It utilizes a set of cookies to track user behavior, measure website performance, and provide data for reporting.
Baidu Analytics typically sets the following cookies on a user's browser:
HMACCOUNT : This cookie is used to track visitor IDs .
Its purpose is to assign a unique identifier to each user, allowing Baidu Analytics to differentiate between new and returning visitors and to collect data about their behavior across a website.
Persistence : Varies widely.
Some sources indicate a session lifespan, while others report a persistence of up to 151 months or 1 year.
The specific duration can depend on the implementation.
HMACCOUNT_BFESS : Similar to HMACCOUNT , this cookie also tracks visitor IDs for analytical purposes.
It helps in identifying a user's interactions and collecting data for analytics reports.
Persistence : 1 year or up to 400 days.
Hm_lvt_<identifier> : This cookie is used to record a user's historical visit times .
It tracks when a user has previously visited the website, allowing website owners to analyze user engagement and frequency of visits over time.
Persistence : 1 year.
Hm_lpvt_<identifier> : This is a session cookie that records the current visit time of the user.
It helps in understanding user interactions within a single Browse session.
Persistence : Session.
Hm_ck_<identifier> : This cookie is used to collect data about the visitor's device and behavior , and to track the user across devices and marketing channels.
It is crucial for website owners using Baidu Analytics to be transparent about their use of these cookies and to comply with relevant data privacy laws, such as the GDPR.
While Baidu Analytics is anonymized and doesn't collect personally identifiable information (PII) by default, the use of tracking cookies still falls under the scope of these regulations.
Browser-Level Settings : All modern web browsers provide settings that allow users to manage their cookie preferences.
Users can choose to block all cookies, block third-party cookies, or manually delete cookies from their devices.
This will prevent Baidu Analytics from setting new cookies, but it may also affect the functionality of other websites.
Do Not Track (DNT) Signal : Many browsers offer a "Do Not Track" setting that sends a signal to websites indicating a user's preference not to be tracked.
While not all websites are legally required to honor this signal, it is a privacy-conscious choice users can make.
Privacy-Focused Browser Extensions : Various browser extensions, such as Ghostery or Privacy Badger, can automatically block tracking scripts and cookies from Baidu Analytics and other services.
These tools give users more control and transparency over the data being collected about their online activities.
The University and our authorised agents use the Meta Pixel to measure the effectiveness of our Facebook and Instagram advertising campaigns, understand user interactions with our website, and build audiences for targeted advertising.
The Pixel collects information such as page views, actions taken on the site, IP address, and browser details.
Data is sent to Meta and may be used for analytics, reporting, and ad personalisation in line with Meta’s Privacy Policy .
How to Opt Out
The University uses the Snapchat Pixel to measure the effectiveness of Snapchat advertising campaigns and understand how users interact with our website after viewing or engaging with a Snap ad.
It tracks page views, purchases, and other actions, which are sent to Snapchat for analytics and targeting purposes.
The University uses the Douyin pixel to understand the effectiveness of campaigns on Douyin (TikTok China) and track actions users take on our site.
The University uses StackAdapt’s tracking pixel to optimise programmatic advertising, retarget audiences, and measure campaign effectiveness.
The University and our authorised agents may use Rednote (also known as Xiaohongshu or Little Red Book) tracking technologies to understand how our website traffic engages with Rednote advertising campaigns and to measure conversions.
These cookies help deliver targeted advertising, provide analytics, and allow us to evaluate the effectiveness of campaigns aimed at audiences in regions where Rednote is a popular platform.
Rednote collects device and browser data, IP address, and browsing activity through cookies and pixels.
This data may be shared with Rednote in accordance with their Privacy Policy.
The University and our authorised agents may use LinkedIn Insight Tag and associated cookies to track website visits originating from LinkedIn advertisements, measure conversions, retarget website visitors, and gain aggregated insights about our audience.
This helps us evaluate the effectiveness of campaigns and improve communications with prospective students, staff, and partners.
Data collected may include IP address, device and browser information, and interactions with the website.
This data may be shared with LinkedIn in accordance with their Privacy Policy .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study:
privacy
Thank you for registering
Something went wrong, please try again
Get to Know Glasgow is a seven-step online guide to what Glasgow is like, right now, for students.
Listen to our podcast and explore videos and blogs created by our undergraduate and postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research:
A video series of innovative and impactful research projects based in our Advanced Research Centre [ARC]
Find out more about the University of Glasgow's new research centre and flagship research building - the ARC.
The £116 million building helps bridge the boundaries between research, cross subject collaboration and true societal impact.
World-changing Glasgow.
Our people have always been at the forefront of innovation.
Our past achievements inspire our current world-changers.
1776 – Adam Smith publishes The Wealth of Nations
1848 – Lord Kelvin proposes an absolute scale of temperature , now called the Kelvin Scale
1867 – Joseph Lister publishes research on the use of antiseptic in surgery
1879 – first successful removal of a brain tumour by William Macewen
1895 – Sir William Ramsay discovers helium
1896 – John Macintyre opens the world’s first x-ray department
1898 – Sir William Ramsay discovers neon , krypton and xenon
1913 – Frederick Soddy discovers isotopes
1926 – John Logie Baird invents television
1936 – John Boyd Orr publishes link between poverty , poor diet and ill health
1958 – Ian Donald shows the world the first ultrasound image of a foetus
1958 – discovery of first beta-blocking drug to treat coronary heart disease by Sir James Black
1967 – Jocelyn Bell Burnell discovers radio pulsars
1974 – Graham Teasdale and Bryan Jennett create the Glasgow Coma Scale
1995 – James Shepherd leads a landmark study on use of statins to prevent heart attacks
2009 – A team of Glasgow researchers, led by Christian Kay , publishes the world’s first Historical Thesaurus of the Oxford English Dictionary
2010 – Keith Muir leads the first fully regulated clinical trial of stem cell therapy for stroke patients
2015 – Sheila Rowan leads the Glasgow team that first detected gravitational waves

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore:
The University of Glasgow has been changing the world since 1451.
We are a world top 100 university and a member of the prestigious Russell Group of leading UK research universities.
Find out more

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/connect:
Building collaboration between the research and policy community, by sharing evidence, nurturing skills, creating space for fresh thinking and preparing the next generation of policymakers.
We are committed to helping Glasgow flourish, but engage a broader global community in our work.
Use our online form for more information about studying with us or your application.
Got a question about Glasgow?
Use our Ask a Student service to connect to our student volunteers.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects:
List all subjects | List subjects by College and School

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate:
Gilmorehill Campus, Glasgow
Dumfries Campus, Dumfries (School of Social & Environmental Sustainability)
Book your place
Sign-up to receive the latest information about undergraduate study
If you’d like to help us find the most relevant information for your needs, please can you let us know which of these statements best describes you?
There’s no right or wrong answer – just whatever feels like the best fit for you.
There's never a shortage of things to do or get involved in at the University and in the city of Glasgow
We're committed to connecting you with the right resources, from dedicated teaching staff to an excellent library with long opening hours

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate:
Taught programmes A-Z
Research opportunities A-Z
Chat to staff, students and academics to discover what it's like to study at our world changing campus as a postgraduate student at UofG!
Join us for sessions from university service teams and academic information sessions.
Come along to our stunning Gilmorehill Campus and chat with staff to find out all about life as a postgraduate student at UofG!
These online sessions will cover the first steps for anyone from the UK or Ireland thinking about postgraduate study.
Find out more and register
These online sessions will introduce postgraduate study at the University of Glasgow to international students.
Learn more about student life from current UofG students, from clubs and societies to accommodation options.
Looking to join us from overseas?
Here’s everything you need for a smooth journey to Glasgow, and a warm welcome on arrival
Join Maeve from Postgraduate Admissions and Mark from External Relations as they guide you through the admissions process, from obtaining a CAS to paying your deposit.
(Streamed live on 23 April 2025).
Join Mark and Maria from External Relations as they talk through how to search and apply for a scholarship.
(Streamed live on 13 January 2025).
Watch our panel comprising postgraduate students Jessica from USA, Jasmine from Nepal and Shounak from India answer questions on everything from the best clubs and societies to the city of Glasgow.
Our students were joined by Alice from External Relations.
(Streamed live on 6 March 2025).
Watch more Q&As
Join us for your very own campus tour of the University of Glasgow.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Take a guided tour of the campus with one of our student ambassadors.
Find out more about the University's architecture and history.
Join our students Harriet, Ewan and Natasha as they take you on your very own private tour of the University of Glasgow.
Our beautiful and historic campus is the perfect place to explore, from the Hunterian Museum to our iconic Cloisters.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching:
About L&T Strategy
Find relevant content and links to support your teaching
Check out the Assessment & Feedback Resources Hub
Visit the Active Learning Hub for guides and case studies for student-centred, active learning
Explore policies and guidance relevant to those working in learning and teaching
Discover the best planning tools to support your work
UofG funding of relevance to staff involved in learning & teaching
Check out the student learning & teaching page
[UofG Staff & Student Only]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/new:
Take a look at our checklist for new students which guides you through what you need to do and when.
Get your checklist
Are you joining us this year?
We can’t wait to welcome you!
Settle into UofG life:
Look out for an email giving you access to your student account:
Prepare for your arrival and make the most of your first year as a UofG student.
Sign up to our Online Welcome and Induction platform Glasgow Essentials and learn about what day-to-day student life at the University is like, and what to expect from studying with us.
Sign up now
Find the nearest NHS services, how to register for NHS care and information for students who are travelling from outside Scotland.
Transition to Glasgow (T2G) course is a great opportunity to meet other students and staff before you get here and is open to every new undergraduate student.
It will allow you to brush up on your academic skills, meet new students joining TeamUofG, and work with staff who’ll be teaching you throughout your degree.
Find out more about T2G
Are you coming to Scotland with a Tier 4/Student Visa?
Here’s what you need to know about your visa responsibilities once you arrive.
View and download a range of University apps to stay up to date with your timetable, coursework, fitness, and more!
Explore UofG Apps
On 20th August, our panel of staff and students will answer your questions on everything you need to know about joining UofG!
From clubs and societies and support services, to studying abroad as part of your degree, plus lots more.
Watch now
Your questions about UofG, answered by students.
Message our student Unibuddies who are happy to answer your questions and share their honest opinions.
Explore Unibuddy
Explore everything on offer during Welcome Week 2025!
All new and returning students are welcome to attend.
Explore everything on offer during Freshers Week 2025 including events across campus and how to get involved!
All University students can access the free confidential helpline or use the App to discuss any difficulties they may be facing.
Help is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, with counsellors on hand to provide guidance and help students work through any concerns.
Did you know we have four different student bodies you can join?
They are all excited to welcome new and returning students to our friendly, welcoming and diverse #TeamUofG community.
* Access with GUID/University email and password.
The University will issue these details to you with the Access Your Student Account email .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/parents:
Our Deputy Vice Chancellor (External Engagement) would like to extend a warm welcome to you on behalf of Team UofG.
Join our online information sessions for parents, carers and supporters of potential applicants who are, or will be, sitting SQA Highers/Advanced Highers
Common Law (LLB) student Navya and her mum, who are both from India, chat about everything Glasgow has to offer.
Watch our Q&A to learn everything you need to know about your child or dependent joining UofG.
Hear from UofG staff from Security, Accommodation and Student Support.
Streamed live on 1 May 2025.
Join Kirsty from UofG as she chats through everything you need to know about the application process for those studying SQA Highers and National 5.
Our Eco-Hub provides free secondhand homeware, clothes and plants swap, free bike repair and 50p tea and coffee!
If you're a parent, carer or supporter of a young person considering university study, why not join our mailing list and get:
Find out how we can support you and your child/dependent by completing the form to sign up.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/clearing:
There's still time to join Team UofG this September.
UCAS Clearing is simply another route by which thousands of students join UK universities every year.
It's perfect if you have not made an application yet or if you are not holding any offers.
Even if you are holding an offer at another uni you can still use Clearing to upgrade to Glasgow.
If you already have your exam results and hold no offers , then you can apply through Clearing now for September 2025 entry using our online application.
Apply online now
What to do once you've got your Clearing offer from us
Unsure about what Clearing is or if it's for you?
View our Clearing guide for all you need to know about UCAS Clearing.
Accommodation is guaranteed to new students joining us through UCAS Clearing who submit an accommodation application by 25 August.
You can apply as soon as you have accepted an offer from us.
Join our mailing list now we'll keep you updated on our 2025 Clearing vacancies and results day guidance.
Watch our Live Clearing Q&A streamed live on 23 July 2025.
Watch our staff and students discuss all aspects of the UCAS Clearing process.
Join us and find out why Glasgow is the friendliest and 2nd most affordable city in the world (Time Out, 2022)
Explore our beautiful campuses in Glasgow and Dumfries.
UofG Unibuddy Billie outlines what she would do differently in first year
Beginning university can be a very daunting experience.
Especially if moving overseas.
Muhammed shares some top tips when moving abroad for study
The University of Glasgow has a campus in the town of Dumfries.
Lucile shares their experience about living there as an Environmental Science & Sustainability student
Hear about student life at Glasgow from those who know it best - our students from all over the world.
The University of Glasgow at Dumfries is our campus in south-west Scotland with a close-knit community of students from the UK and around the world

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/results:
Results day is here!
Good luck to all those receiving their grades.
UCAS receives your results directly and will update UCAS Hub accordingly - typically around 8am.
As the system will be busy with students keen to find out if they've received offers, you'll need to be patient.
In Scotland, if you registered for MySQA you'll be emailed and/or texted your results from 8am on the day they're published.
Alternatively, you'll still receive your certificate through the post.
Please send your query via our Enquiry Form and we will review it as soon as possible.
If you are Unconditional Firm but wish to be released from your Glasgow offer, remember you can do this yourself via the "Decline your place" option in your UCAS Hub.
If you are Conditional Firm and wish to be released from your Glasgow offer, please complete our Enquiry Form , select subject Clearing, and advise that you wish a Clearing release.
These will be fast-tracked with releases visible on UCAS Hub but this action will take at least 24 hours.
Congratulations!
You have a confirmed place at the University of Glasgow and for many of our students you will be joining Team UofG week commencing Monday 15 September 2025 for the new academic year which will start off with Orientation or better known as Freshers’ Week!
Teaching and attending your lectures will start the following week on Monday 22 September .
You will receive your UF letter from us imminently.
Please check the letter for anything outstanding on your applicant portal that you still have to upload.
This will likely include evidence of your domicile and proof of address.
Once you have uploaded these, you can then look forward to receiving your AAN email providing you with the details for accessing your student account to allow you to register as a student and enrol for your classes.
Registration and enrolment will open for new entrant Undergraduate Students on Monday 18 August .
More information for new students is here including your programme start date ,
More information for new students including your programme start date is on our information for new student webpages.
Unfortunately, your application has been unsuccessful.
We have thoroughly reviewed your application and in doing so, we have considered your previous and current certified study and have confirmed that you are not eligible for the programme you applied for this coming session.
However, you are now likely to have your insurance choice place confirmed as your firm choice.
If you have also been unsuccessful with your insurance choice this means that you will be eligible to enter Clearing and can now search for a clearing opportunity that is right for you.
Please note, if you believe you have been rejected in error and have met the conditions of your offer as stated please do not worry.
If you have been rejected in error we will re-instate your offer and your place will be secure.
Please complete our enquiry form.
If you r status is UI at UofG then it is likely that you have been firmly accepted at your first choice University and you will be UF with your first choice .
If you are still CF at your firm choice you r application is still in the process of being reviewed .
If your first choice University rejects your application your UI at Glasgow will update to UF and you will be joining Team UofG .
Please refer to the guidance for UF applicants above.
If you see UCC on your UCAS Hub, unfortunately y ou don’t have the necessary grades for your offer, but the University has proposed a similar course requiring lower grades .
This will mostly be the case for applicants who applied for a MEng degree programme and we have confirmed your place for the BEng degree programme.
When you see this status , please note you must accept the Unconditional Changed Course offer on UCAS Hub to further secure your place.
If your place is not yet confirmed you will see your status as CF at UofG.
It is likely that we have been unable to process your offer.
There may be a few reasons for this;
We do not have all your results to be able to make our decision.
Please log into your University of Glasgow Applicant Self-Service account and review your To Do list for any outstanding actions.
You will have received details on how to do this in your original offer email or alternatively refer to your UCAS Hub on Results Day where you will be able to see the reason for why we have not yet confirmed your offer .
The quicker we receive all your results the quicker we will be able to process your conditional firm offer.
Or You have not met the conditions of your offer as stated and your application is still under review.
We are working hard to make sure you see your application status updates as soon as possible.
Please refer to “What to Do Next”.
If you r status is CI at UofG we are waiting to see if it updates to CF.
It will update to CF at Glasgow i f you have been unsuccessful with your firm choice University .
As soon as we see your status updating to CF we will process your results .
The outcome will either be that we have been able to update your status to UF or due to not meeting the conditions of your offer your application has been unsuccessful .
At this point you will be eligible to enter Clearing and can now search for a clearing opportunity that is right for you Please refer to our Clearing Guidelines .
If you have any specific queries or issues regarding your 2025 offer
If you are Unconditional Firm but wish to be released from your Glasgow offer, remember you can do this yourself via the Self-Release option in your UCAS account.
If you are Conditional Firm and wish to be released from your Glasgow offer, please complete our Enquiry Form , select subject Clearing, and advise that you wish a Clearing release.
These will be fast-tracked with releases visible on UCAS Track but this action will take at least 24 hours.
You can only “decline your place” once your application status is UF.
If you do not wish to take up your firm place you can use the “Decline your place” button in your UCAS Hub.
If you decline your place you are releasing yourself into Clearing.
This is available until 3 September 2025 .
Please note, that if you “Decline your place” you will also lose your insurance place too.
If you still wish to go to your insurance choice University you will need to contact them to find out if they will accept you.
I f you decide you no longer want your CF course, you must have attempted contact with Glasgow to determine why your offer status remains CF.
Once you understand why your application is CF and you still want to apply elsewhere, please contact UCAS directly to initiate the CF "Decline your place" process.
UCAS will wish you to confirm that you  understand your current status with Glasgow and that you have made reasonable efforts to engage.
You can contact the University to discuss your CF status by using our Enquiry Form and advising that you will be contacting UCAS to initiate declining your place.
If you have recently declined your place by mistake using the "Decline your place" button in your UCAS Hub, you will need to contact us to have your place re-instated.
Please use our enquiry form to do this.
If you declined your original offer from UofG then unfortunately we will not be able to re-instate your offer.
If you have accepted your offer you will need to contact the Universities you are holding your places with, to let them know you wish to withdraw your application .
We will withdraw your application for you .
Please complete our enquiry form and let us know you want to do this.
If you have not accepted your offers you can withdraw your whole application online on your UCAS Hub.
A t this late stage in the Admissions cycle we will be unable to support a changed course request.
Please note that if you wish to change subjects within the degree programme that you have applied for this will generally be possible due to the flexibility of our College entry system.
This means that if you have applied for MA Arts English Literature and wish to change to MA Arts Phil o sophy this will be possible to do this once you register and enrol on MA Arts since many of our degree programmes are flexible in the subject offering and allow for students to choose three first year subjects.
It will not be possible to change from College to College at this point .
Please complete the enquiry form.
I If you wish to defer your place you must be UF to be eligible to do this .
P lease complete our enquiry form to let us know you wish to defer .
Generally, w e can only allow an applicant to defer once .
Where we are unable to approve deferrals we will let you know in writing .
Request to defer should be submitted by 31 st August .
Changed your mind and don’t want to go to University this year
If you have accepted your offer you will need to contact the Universities you are holding your places with, to let them know you wish to withdraw your application.
We will withdraw your application for you.
You can register your appeal directly with the SQA from 5 August.
Students from England, Wales and Northern Ireland can find out more about the appeals process at https://www.gov.uk/appeal-qualification-result
For information on our Clearing vacancies and how to apply visit our Clearing web page.
Skills Development Scotland (SDS) is Scotland’s career service and they're providing support to learners, parents and carers from mid-June until after results are confirmed in August.
When the Results Helpline reopens on Tuesday 5 August 2025, careers advisers can help with:
There's lots of support on Scotland's careers website, My World of Work .
For all the latest My World of Work updates follow them on Facebook , Instagram , X and Youtube
#SQAresults

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/online:
Our online programmes allow you to study for a University of Glasgow postgraduate degree from anywhere in the world.
Upskill and develop your career with the University of Glasgow’s new, fully online microcredential courses.
Each course has been developed to equip you with in-demand professional skills and insights and provide a springboard onto further study: worth 10 credits.
Our free online courses offer high-quality learning accessible to everyone, anywhere in the world
This 10 week online course offers a multi-disciplinary look at the life, work and legacy of the 'Ayrshire Bard'.
This four month online credit-bearing course helps teachers develop the skills needed to teach English for academic purposes.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd:
Law: Trainee CPD
See also:
Our definition of CPD ranges from conferences, seminars, very short courses (even lunchtime meetings) to credit-rated and award bearing programmes such as MBAs, MScs and other more traditional postgraduate taught (PGT) courses spread over a number of months/years for part-time students.
Some PGT courses have been 'opened up' to allow professionals and other interested students to study individual modules either for credit or not.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials:
Our Microcredentials are your gateway to enhancing your skills and career prospects in today's competitive job market.
With the aim of supporting employees and employers across the UK to upskill and reskill in response to present-day socioeconomic challenges, these industry-led CPD courses offer:
Beneficial for working professionals, freelancers, reskillers, jobseekers, and graduates from a variety of industries and professional backgrounds, our Microcredentials are designed to equip you with in-demand skills and tools for your career development, no matter where you are on your journey.
Ready to elevate your skills and advance your career?
Course start dates from Monday 22nd - Monday 29th September 2025
Subscribe to our Mailing List for notification of scheduled courses and when applications open
Entry requirements: Please note, each individual course description will list any prerequisite knowledge which you need to have in order to benefit from the course.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you have this knowledge and admission to a course does not imply that we deem your prior knowledge to be sufficient to benefit from the course.
You: A self-directed lifelong learner, committed to augmenting the knowledge, skills, and competencies that will help you advance your career.
Your Class: Learners of all ages, genders, and employment statuses, including working professionals, freelancers, reskillers, jobseekers, and graduates from a variety of industries and professional backgrounds.
Your Teachers: Distinguished educators, academics, and industry leaders from the University of Glasgow.
Through our courses, our learners have gained valuable skills, knowledge, and academic credits that have paved the way for exciting career advancements and further academic pursuits.
But don't just take our word for it – hear from our learners themselves about the impact that our courses have had on their lives.
Each Microcredential offered at the University of Glasgow is assessed through a range of innovative, industry-relevant activities and meets the quality standards set by the Common Microcredential Framework (CMF).
As an Microcredentials Learner, you will join the University as a fully registered student and gain access to:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses:
Our free online courses offer high-quality learning accessible to everyone, anywhere in the world.
These flexible, engaging courses are designed to be studied entirely online, supporting you to upskill in key and emerging areas, develop new knowledge to support career progression and deepen your understanding across a wide range of subjects.
You’ll engage with a variety of resources including videos, articles, peer-reviewed assignments, hands-on tasks and interactive quizzes to reinforce your learning.
Our courses range from 3-5hrs per week of learning with digital certificate on offer to evidence and showcase your learning.
Registration for courses is free, with free time-limited access to content: charges may apply for additional features and extended study.
Follow UofG Online on LinkedIn to get announcements of new courses, hear directly from our learners and stay informed on all of our online offerings.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short:
Courses offered online and in-person
Browse our courses
Enrolment for courses starting in July have now closed.
You can still book on courses starting in August.
Enrolment for 2025-26 will open w/c 28 July.
Watch this space!
APPLICATIONS FOR ACCESS 2025-26 ARE NOW OPEN.
Find out more about our Arts and Humanities provision.
Short language courses
COSCA Counselling skills
We will keep you updated about courses and enrolment.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme:
APPLICATIONS FOR 2025-26 ARE NOW OPEN
Credits: 40 at SCQF Level 7 (20 per Access subject) Cost: £580 (£290 per Access subject) Funding: Funding options available- please see Funding section below Delivery: Online Eligibility: See criteria below Entry requirements : No formal qualifications are required for entry to most Access subjects.
The only exception being certain science subjects which require a relevant qualification at Nat5 level or above.
Further details below Time commitment: Minimum of 15-17 hours per week including live class time and independent study time.
Our Access to Higher Education programme offers a pathway into a university degree for those who may not have the standard entry qualifications required for undergraduate study.
Our Access to Higher Education Programme offers a part-time, flexible route to degree study for adults returning to education, or those who meet our Widening Participation eligibility criteria.
Access at the University of Glasgow can enable progression on to our professional degree programmes, including Nursing, Primary Education and Law, or into a wide range of degrees across the Arts, Social Sciences, Sciences and Engineering.
We offer a wide range of academic subjects on Access, with students taking two relevant subjects to allow them to progress on to their degree of choice .
In addition to their two Access subjects, students will engage in our Skills, Support and Progression programme.
This class is delivered for one hour a week every fortnight, and will give students the knowledge and skills required to succeed on Access and to successfully progress onto undergraduate study.
Students who study on our Access Programme will recieve a UofG student number and student card, a UofG email account, access to our Virtual Learning Environment (Moodle) and full use of the incredible UofG Library.
Our Access to Higher Education programme is there to provide a route into undergraduate degree study for those who have been out of formal education for three years or more.
If you have not been out of formal education for three years or more, you would still be eligible for Access if you meet one (or more) of the following Widening Participation criteria.
In order to be eligible for on Access, students must meet one of the following criteria:
- Been out of formal education for three years or more
- Reside in an SIMD decile 1-4 postcode area (applicants can check their eligibility on the University of Glasgow’s Postcode Checker
- Be care-experienced
- Be estranged and living without family support
- Have caring responsibilities
- Have Refugee or Asylum Seeker status
We would also welcome inquiries from those who faced extenuating circumstances during their education, and who do not have the relevant qualifications for entry to university as a result.
If this is you, please fill out our extenuating circumstances form.
Funding opportunities for Access
If you have any queries about the Access programme, email access@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/choosingyourdegree/parttime:
Part-time study is a practical and flexible way to achieve a University of Glasgow degree, providing the opportunity to study the same degree courses as full-time students, but allowing you to select the number of courses and credits you wish to commit to in any one year.
Part-time study can be especially attractive to people who need to combine their study with work or family commitments (and sometimes both) and part-time study is more convenient for people who need this balance.
Others may choose part-time study for financial reasons as it allows them to continue working and finance their studies as they go along.
Part-time study is particularly useful if you:
If you are unable to study full-time and would like to study part-time at the University of Glasgow you can study towards either a
in the College of Arts & Humanities
or
in the College of Science and Engineering .
Some BSc degrees will require full-time study in the later stages of the degree.
Note: It is not possible to study part-time towards a Master of Arts (Social Sciences) in the College of Social Sciences.
This is due to the unprecedented demand for social sciences subjects from our full-time students and in subject areas where our student number targets cannot be exceeded.
We are unable to offer part-time degrees in the following subjects: Accountancy & Finance, Dentistry, Education, Engineering, Film & Television Studies, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Psychology, Veterinary Biosciences, Veterinary Medicine.
OR in any of the Social Sciences MA (SocSci) degrees.
The list of undergraduate courses offered by the University is available at: Degree programmes A‑Z
You do not need to decide at the very start of your studies at the subjects you will take in your degree of whether you want to complete and Honours Degree or Designated Degree.
This can be decided once you are well established in your studies.
You are able to study as part-time student if you meet the University’s criteria for home student status and you meet the University’s standard published entrance requirements .
To qualify for home status you must be ordinarily resident in Scotland and/or the EU for three years prior to the start of the academic year you wish to study part-time.
Those living in England, Wales and Northern Ireland would also be eligible to study part-time at the University, however the tuition fee would be pro-rata of the Rest of United Kingdom (RUK) full-time fee of £9,250.
To gain entry to the University, it is important you meet our standard published entry requirements .
It is expected that applicants to part-time study will meet the same entry requirements that is required for full-time entry.
However there may be the possibility of qualifying for an adjusted offer if you meet certain criteria in line with the University’s widening participation objectives.
If you would like us to consider any additional qualification then please Enquire online .
There are also specific entry routes for adults returning to education via an Open Studies or SWAP Access course that are not dependent on the attainment of Scottish Highers or European Qualifications.
To find out if you are eligible for a pre-entry programme and discover what adjusted entry requirements might mean for you, including an overall adjusted offer, visit ACCESS Glasgow.
At Glasgow you will attend the same scheduled daytime classes as full-time students but as a part-time student you will study fewer courses which means you will spend less time attending lectures and tutorials.
This gives you more flexibility in your day-to-day life and will also allow you to complete your degree at a slower pace.
Normally lectures for any one particular course are scheduled for a particular time on three or four (and even maybe five days) of the week, in addition there may be a tutorial to attend or a laboratory session.
If you choose two courses as a part-time student then generally speaking you may need to attend the University 10-12 hours per week.
The length of time it takes to complete your degree depends primarily on your availability and the amount of time you can afford to devote to studying part-time.
This can be very flexible.
However it is necessary to study at least 20 credits per year in order to progress through your degree and most degree regulations stipulate a maximum number of years within which you must complete your studies.
The number of courses and credits you choose to study per year will determine the length of time it takes to complete your degree.
For example, if you were to study 4 x 20 credit courses per year (80 credits) you would take just over four years to obtain a Designated degree (360 credits).
If you wish to obtain an Honours degree worth 480 credits you would take six years.
If your personal circumstances change or if you find you want to commit to more study and complete your degree at a faster rate then you can transfer to full-time study.
To do this you will need to apply through the Universities Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) by the UCAS deadline which is 15 January for entry in the forthcoming academic session.
If you have extraneous circumstances and have a genuine reason for living in Glasgow and you also do not wish to transfer to full-time study it is possible to transfer from your current University to study part-time at Glasgow.
This would be more likely if you are transferring credits from your current degree course to a degree course at Glasgow.
Applying for a part-time degree is made directly to the University and not through UCAS.
The closing date for applications is 31 July each year preceding the start of the academic session in September.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international:
Find entry requirements, contact information and our travel calendar.
Everything you need to know about studying a full-time programme at the University of Glasgow
Note: PhD applications are accepted all year round.
Are you planning to study in the UK?
Join Study UK’s popular online course to feel more confident, prepared and ready to make the most of your time studying and living in the UK
Accommodation is guaranteed for all new international students who apply before 14 July.
When you come to Scotland you'll find vibrant cities, historic towns, all set in a stunning natural landscape.
Hear first hand from our students on their Scottish experiences.
Work in the UK for up to 2 years after graduation with the Graduate Visa
Over 1500 students take part every year in our long-established Study Abroad and exchange programmes.
Apply for our International Summer School and join one of the world’s top ranking universities
Find out more about language requirements and the language support available.
Information and advice for staff, students and prospective students.
Join the conversation on

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support:
We are a dedicated team of advisors to guide all our international students through their student journey here at Glasgow.
We offer a wide and immersive service to ensure that you have an excellent student experience.
Current registered students can book an online or in-person appointment to speak to an International Student Support advisor.
If you are not a current student at the University of Glasgow, please look for more information on the International Recruitment Pages .
If you would like to contact someone with an enquiry please submit your query via the Admissions Form here .
Find information about applying for visas for study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/partnershipprogrammes:
The University of Bologna and the University of Glasgow offer a double degree programme in Statistics.
Students from each university may spend their third year studying at the other university.
Find out more about our partnership:
University of Bologna
BUCT students on recognised programmes can apply to enter Level 3 (Honours) on the specified programme at the University of Glasgow.
BUCT
Second year undergraduate BUiD students on recognised programmes can apply to study from Level 3 (Honours) of selected degree programmes at the University of Glasgow.
BUID
Universitas Gadjah Mada and the University of Glasgow offer dual masters degree programmes in the College of Science and Engineering and the College of Social Sciences.
Second year Universitas Indonesia students on associated programmes can apply to the dual-degree programmes in the James Watt School of Engineering at the University of Glasgow.
Second year KMITL students on associated programmes can apply to study from Level 3 (Honours) on selected programmes in the Schools of Computing Science and the James Watt School of Engineering at the University of Glasgow.
KMITL
Second year students on selected programmes from Tianjin University may apply for entry from third year of selected honours programmes at the University of Glasgow.
Students may also apply to spend a year abroad at Glasgow in either 3rd or 4th year.
University of Tianjin
Second year ZUEL students on recognised programmes can apply to study from Level 3 (Honours) on the BSc Statistics or BSc Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Glasgow.
ZUEL

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/eu:
Information for EU Students
The University of Glasgow continues to be committed to ensuring a strong relationship with our existing and future EU students, and supporting EU talent to make their home at the University of Glasgow.
We are delighted to announce the introduction of our new EU scholarships for new incoming students.
EU students starting a full degree from 2021-22 and beyond, and arriving in the UK after 31 December 2020 will not be eligible for home fee status or tuition fee loan.
In the academic year 2021/22 EU students were eligible for the International Leadership Scholarship and also for the Undergraduate Excellence scholarship.
From 2022/23 onwards EU students could be considered for our new:
EU students without settled/pre-settled status will also:
EU students starting a full degree after 1 August 2021 who hold settled/pre-settledstatus:
UK nationals living in the EU, EEA or Switzerland on 31 December 2020, who lived in Scotland before moving there, and who have lived in the EU, EEA or Switzerland for the last three years before starting their course
UK nationals living in the EU, EEA or Switzerland on 31 December 2020, who lived in another part of the UK before moving there, and who have lived in the EU, EEA or Switzerland for the last three years before starting their course
Find entry requirements, contact information and how to meet us
A-Z of undergraduate degree programmes, entry requirements and how to apply
A-Z of taught postgraduate degree programmes, online application, fees and funding, and FAQs
We welcome applicants with their own research proposal or those looking for a specific funded project title
Distance and online learning opportunities including postgraduate Masters degrees and massive open online courses (MOOCs).

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/erasmusmundus:
Erasmus Mundus Joint Masters are prestigious, integrated, international study programmes, jointly delivered by an international consortium of higher education institutions.
Students at Masters level worldwide can apply.
Sign up to receive the latest information about Erasmus Mundus Joint Masters at the University of Glasgow

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/ukraine:
The University is supporting colleagues and students affected by the war in Ukraine.
Our thoughts are with anyone who has been forcefully displaced or lost loved ones during the conflict.
From the beginning of the conflict, the University community has rallied to provide support to those affected, by raising awareness, offering advice and seeking donations.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife:
UofG students Ash, Jachine, Danielle and Victor share their experiences of student clubs and societies, the student unions, events, sports, Freshers Week and lots more!
Press play to listen to the Student Life episode of our Get to Know Glasgow podcast now.
Explore our main Gilmorehill campus, as well as our campuses at Garscube and Dumfries
Get involved through our four student bodies
Our student support teams will help you make the most of your time at Glasgow
Classes, drop-in activities, courses, club sport and personal training
We offer professional careers advice, coaching, resources and support to help you find your dream job
Our diverse University community attracts students and staff from over 140 different countries
Message our student Unibuddies who are happy to answer your questions and share their honest opinions
There are various exciting opportunities available to study or work abroad.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/askastudent:
Get in touch with our current student Unibuddies to ask questions about life at Glasgow and receive honest and impartial advice.
REMEMBER:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/blogs/undergraduate:
Find out more about life at Glasgow with blogs from those who know best, our students.
Physics student, Daniel speaks about his journey at UofG!
Finance and Mathematics student, Katarzyna writes her list of essential items for packing when starting university.
Published February 2024
Primary Teaching student, Amy shares her guide to clubs and socities at UofG!
Published 3 January 2024
Neuroscience student, Kiera shares her comprehensive guide to avail student discounts!
Published 2 December 2024
Microbiology student, Ellie shares her perspective on the importance of attending lectures.
Published 9 October 2024
Accountancy & Finance student, Amar shares his top budgeting tips.
Published 4 September 2024
Law student, Niamh shares her tips on where students can find low-cost, good food in Glasgow.
Published 3 October 2023
View more of our Unibuddy blogs

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/blogs/postgraduate:
International Corporate Finance and Banking student, Aakanksha shares her tips on balancing student life!
Published 14 March 2025
Education with Primary Teaching Qualification student, Maggie shares her top tips for new international students
Published 25 October 2023
Human Geography student, Haritha shares her story of her insightful PhD journey
Published 2 December 2024
Education with Primary Teaching Qualification student, Emma describes how she embraced the challenges of living independently for the first time.
Published 26 September 2024
Public Health student, Yara shares her advice and insightful journey of being an online student.
Published 8 July 2025
Electronics and Nanoscale Engineering student, Muhammad writes about his positive experience of living in student accommodation in Glasgow.
Published 9 February 2024
Mathematics student, Nethmi shares her story of becoming a student at UofG!
Published 7 October 2024
Public Health Graduate, Hemshree writes about how she navigated her career during and after her studies at UofG.
Published 12 February 2024
Published 11 August 2023

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/vlogs:
Watch more UofG students on YouTube
Published 4 October 2023
Published 1 November 2023
Published 12 September 2023
Published 6 September 2023
Published 30 August 2023
Published 24 August 2023
Published 22 May 2023
Published 18 August 2023
Published 27 July 2023
Published 6 May 2023
Published 25 July 2023
Published 15 June 2023
Published 13 June 2023
Published 6 April 2023
Published 17 March 2023
Published 13 March 2023
Published 15 March 2023
Published 20 May 2022
Published 23 May 2022
Published 5 May 2022
Follow our students on YouTube

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/studentexperience:
What happens inside the lecture theatre, lab, or seminar room is just part of your student experience.
What happens around all of that - your co-curricular experience - can be just as important.
Our aim is to improve it and make it better, providing you with a more supportive, rewarding, and enriching range of opportunities that provide the experience, skills, and knowledge you need, helping you to make the most of your time at UofG and beyond.
To do this, we are focussing on increasing opportunity , supporting wellbeing , improving inclusion and belonging , and enhancing physical and digital environments .
We believe it is important to have student input when shaping these projects.
Please explore each of these areas below to see what initiatives we have developed and how the student body helped shape them.
Please find the latest news about our projects on the #TeamUofG Student Newsletter , here is a sneak peak of some of the exciting news from our projects!
Make sure to vote in the NSS and make your voice heard!
More info and link below...
We would love to hear what you think about what we're currently working on, what's important to you, and any ideas you may have for future projects.
Feedback and ideas
Find out how we are working to improve your experience of teaching and research:
...
and here's the full Student Experience Strategy if you want to find out more.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/excellence:
In the last Research Excellence Framework (REF) exercise, REF 2021, the University of Glasgow was recognised for its world-leading research and the positive impact it has on society.
The results highlighted Glasgow’s position as a world-changing university which produces research of global and national importance.
The submission also highlighted Glasgow’s commitment to making a difference beyond academia.
The University submitted 118 impact case studies to expert panels, showcasing the University’s wide-ranging collaborations with external partners to deliver societal and economic impacts locally, nationally and globally.
The University has one of the broadest research bases in the UK with a wide range of disciplines reflected in our academic community.
For Staff - find out more about our preparations for the next REF.
The College of Arts & Humanities is committed to sustaining a positive and nurturing research culture.
This was reflected in a strong REF 2021 performance, with two-thirds of environment and impact being recognised as 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent'.
Researchers work closely with public, private and third sector partners across the creative, cultural and heritage industries, and education and policy arenas.
These partnerships highlight the value of Arts & Humanities research in tackling economic and societal challenges in the modern world.
The 28 submitted impact case studies reflected engagement with civic institutions, public policy, social inclusion, public understanding, mental health and wellbeing, curation of cultural memory, creative arts, education, heritage conservation, cultural diversity and the profile of Gaelic.
Find out more: Research in the College of Arts & Humanities
The College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences brings together expert researchers from diverse disciplines working to address the major challenges that face society.
Strategic, financial, and intellectual investments have driven improvements across research disciplines since the last UK-wide assessment in 2014.
The disciplines performed exceptionally well in REF2021, the collaborative and interdisciplinary approach was recognised by the REF panels, who judged over 95% of the research submission as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally-excellent’.
A commitment to making a difference across society was acknowledged, with all submitted impact case studies being confirmed to have delivered ‘outstanding’ or ‘very considerable’ reach and significance.
These results underline the importance of collaboration and confirm that our researchers contribute to society to improve human and animal health through policy, practice and treatment, and contribute to the competitiveness of the UK economy.
Find out more: Research in the College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences
Research in the College of Science & Engineering supports the University’s world-changing ambition to lead discovery research that has a positive impact on society in areas including net-zero, healthcare technologies and safe drinking water.
International collaborations are creating new forms of imaging for exploring the quantum world, discovering gravitational waves, and advancing next generation communications.
In REF2021, six out of seven units have a research environment that was assessed as 100% 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent', reflecting the commitment to supporting a positive research culture and investing in early career researchers.
Strong partnerships demonstrate how Science & Engineering delivers excellent impact:
Find out more: Research in the College of Science and Engineering
Working collaboratively with communities and institutions, research from the College of Social Sciences materially improves people’s lives, in Glasgow, Scotland and across the world.
In REF2021, across all six Units of Assessment, 90% or higher of research was assessed as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’.
Reflecting the collegiality of Social Sciences, 100% of the research environment was assessed as having the 'vitality and sustainability' to produce 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' research and impact.
Researchers from the College of Social Sciences made important contributions on a huge range of knowledge domains including: the urban environment, the UK-wide Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence, the Productivity Institute, the Economics Observatory and the International Public Policy Observatory; the net zero economy; climate democracy; equity in education; migration; health and wellbeing; Central and Eastern Europe including Ukraine and Russia; crime and justice; and the public policy process.
Find out more: Research in the College of Social Sciences
University of Glasgow research impacts locally, nationally & globally.
Researchers are working to meet the needs of displaced and/or marginalised children, through story and arts-based approaches.
Find out more about new diagnostic technologies which help fight against global disease such as malaria.
Find out more about the Runaway Slaves project.
Find out more about impacts on global health.
Collaboration with industry and supporting innovation are key priorities.
Find out more about how UofG research has shaped policy and practice around investment in high growth firms.
Find out more about the collaboration between the University and Sivers Photonics (formerly CST Global).
Find out more about our collaboration with Sublime.
Find out more about research to control the transmission of dengue fever.
By working in teams, building on each other’s ideas, and making Glasgow the best place to develop a career, our research transforms lives and changes the world.
Our research strategy is focused on collaboration, creativity and careers.
Creating an inclusive environment in which colleagues support each other to succeed is a key priority at Glasgow.
We are world-changers together.
Find out more about international development research at Glasgow.
Find out more about our local research and community partnerships.
We partner with the NHS to improve the health of people in Scotland and the UK, and bring innovation and growth to Glasgow.
Find out more about the ARC, our Advanced Research Centre which opened in June 2022.
Find out more about sustainability at Glasgow.
More than 400 colleagues were involved in pulling together the REF2021 submission.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/arc:
The ARC The home of collaborative research, innovation and discovery at the University of Glasgow.
Learn about the world changing research being carried out in the ARC
Focusing on research and applications of Extended Reality (XR).
Find out how ARC-XR is pushing the boundaries of XR research.
Watch our video series exploring the innovative and impactful research projects based in the Advanced Research Centre.
Are you a researcher or staff member?
Designer Tim De Alwis has created graphics for the glass doors, windows and partitions in the ARC.
Find out more and see the designs.
Open to all, The Western is the ARC's home of artisan pastries and cakes, delicious hot and cold food, freshly ground coffee, and much more.
Meet the UofG staff working towards the shared vision of the ARC
Discover how you can support our world-changing research and support the transformation of our campus.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/doctoraltraining/canmore-trust:
The Canmore Trust is providing funding for PhD Studentship positions within the College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences at the University of Glasgow.
Two PhD studentships are available to support student projects focusing on suicide.
The trustees of the Canmore Trust have a desire to fund research into the biological basis for suicide.
We strongly recommend that students examine the the project available and contact potential supervisors to discuss the projects before applying.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/doctoraltraining:
The Canmore Trust is providing funding for PhD Studentship positions supporting student projects focusing on suicide.
lifETIME will train future research leaders in the development of novel technologies for drug discovery, toxicology testing and development of advanced therapeutic medicinal products for use in regenerative medicine.
The Programme will train a new generation of data scientists and equip students with the skills to tackle the most pressing environmental challenges of our time, including biodiversity loss, ecosystem degradation, and emerging infectious diseases.
Recruiting now.
IAPETUS is a partnership that joins leading research universities together with the British Geological Survey and the Centre for Ecology & Hydrology, in a unified approach to doctoral research and training the next generation of leaders in the science of the natural environment.
The centre will produce future business-oriented research leaders who are fluent in the concepts and methodologies of photonic sensing, imaging and analysis, enabling them to innovate and collaborate across all these areas.
We are the UK's largest facilitator of funding, training and support for doctoral students in social science.
By combining the expertise of sixteen universities across Scotland, the school facilitates world-class PhD research.
SGSAH is home to the AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership for Scotland.
Working with our supporters in the arts, culture, creative and heritage sectors, we support positive connections and productive networks locally, regionally and globally to provide outstanding opportunities for doctoral researchers in Scotland.
Our fully funded PhD programme will equip you to tackle complex challenges to global health and infectious disease.
PIADS aims to tackle some of the challenges created by the increasing quantities of data generated by today's society.
The Centre's focus is on developing highly-manufacturable photonic integration technologies related to the magnetic storage of digital information.
We develop the next generation of experts in artificial social intelligence.
Students will be trained in human-computer interaction and machine learning, by specialists in psychology, social sciences, ethics and neuroscience.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/research:
Refine by ALL SUBJECTS Accounting & Finance Aerospace Engineering Archaeology Biodiversity Biomedical Engineering Cancer Sciences Cardiovascular & Metabolic Health Celtic & Gaelic Central & East European Studies Chemistry Civil Engineering Classics Comparative Literature Computing Science Creative Writing Data Science & Artificial Intelligence Dentistry Economic & Social History Economics Education Electronics & Electrical Engineering Engineering English Language & Linguistics English Literature Environment & Sustainability Film & Television Studies Geographical & Earth Sciences Health & Wellbeing Healthcare Technologies History History of Art Infection & Immunity Information Studies Law Management Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Media & Cultural Policy Medicine Modern Languages & Cultures Molecular Biosciences Museum Studies Music Nursing & Health Care One Health Parasitology Pharmacology Philosophy Physics & Astronomy Political & International Studies Psychology & Neuroscience Quantum & Nanotechnology Scottish Literature Sociological & Cultural Studies Sports Science Statistics Theatre Studies Theology & Religious Studies Tourism Translation Studies Urban Studies & Social Policy Veterinary Medicine
You may want to identify and contact a potential supervisor to discuss your research proposal before you apply.
Our college Graduate Schools support postgraduate students providing a range of services and resources:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/strategy:
Our annual research grants and contracts income places us within the top 10 UK universities.
Our REF2021 results highlighted Glasgow’s position as a world-changing university which produces research of global and national importance.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/ourresearchenvironment:
The University has dedicated funding to support our research fellowships
The University is creating an environment that produces research of the highest quality.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/colleges:
The University of Glasgow consists of four colleges: bringing together areas of excellence

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/stafflist:
Please enter a valid search string with two or more characters
Searching for 'Ma' will find all surnames 
          beginning with Ma, searching for 'Mac' will find all surnames beginning with 
          Mac, searching for 'Macdonald' will find all Macdonalds.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/services:
Hunterian Museum & Art Gallery

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/maps:
Select buildings to get directions, accessibility information and more.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/undergraduate:
Book Your Place
View What's On
You can also book your place now for our Open Day on Saturday 18 October .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/postgraduate:
Tuesday 4 November 2025, 9am - 5pm
Wednesday 5 November, 5:30 - 7:30pm
Join us to find out how you can earn a University of Glasgow degree from anywhere in the world.
This event is designed for prospective online learners.
Explore our postgraduate programmes, connect with staff and students and learn how we support you to succeed, wherever you study from.
These sessions will introduce postgraduate study at the University of Glasgow to international students.
These sessions will cover the first steps for anyone from the UK or Ireland thinking about postgraduate study.
Join us on a whistlestop tour of our beautiful campus, including facilities dedicated to postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/campuses:
Transnational education gives students around the world the opportunity to study in their own country for a University of Glasgow degree.
The University of Glasgow has been delivering TNE since 2011 and now offers a range of exciting programmes to students in China and Singapore at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Find out more about our international locations

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/campustours:
Take a paid guided historical tour of campus with SRC Tour Guides

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/glasgow:
Glasgow is the friendliest city in the UK (CN Traveller, 2024)
Ash, Jachine, Danielle and Victor share their experiences of what Glasgow is really like as a city, from diversity and food options to transport, entertainment and the world-famous music scene!
Press play to listen to the Glasgow episode of our Get to Know Glasgow podcast.
The University’s main campus is nestled within Glasgow’s cosy and cultural West End, home to cafés, bars, restaurants, vintage boutiques and cultural attractions.
Glasgow is a shopper’s paradise, with the city catering for all tastes and budgets.
From the biggest high street brands such as Urban Outfitters and Zara to vintage wares, from one-off speciality stores to exclusive designer gear – you will find it all in Glasgow.
The Finnieston neighbourhood (next to the University) is considered the city’s “foodie quarter” with a brilliant mix of cool, quality and affordable venues.
Glasgow means "dear green place" in Gaelic and certainly lives up to its name with over 90 parks and gardens to explore.
Third year undergraduate Psychology student Ella shares her tips about travelling on public transport in and around Glasgow , from buses and trains, to the subway and cycling.
Glasgow has a wealth of quirky vintage stores, incuding some just a short walk from the University.
Join first year Psychology student Ella on a quick tour of her favourite haunts.
Join Liz, an American postgraduate student from New York, as she shares the top 10 things she wishes she’d known before coming to Glasgow for her studies.
As the UK's first UNESCO City of Music, Glasgow is a place where music is not simply confined to the four walls of venues - it's the beating heart of the city.
Our top picks are:
Common Law student Niamh provides the lowdown on the best green spaces in Glasgow!
Published 14 February 2024
Medical student, Ayra shares her top picks of adventures in Glasgow!
Published 28 September 2024
Medical Genetics and Genomics student, Sahana shares her favourite coffee shops in Glasgow.
Published 24 June 2023

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/scotland:
From world-class watersports and walking, to cycling and mountain climbing, the possibilities for getting active in Scotland's magnificent great outdoors are endless.
Scotland is filled with attractions to suit every taste and budget from iconic castles to world-class museums and art galleries.
Scotland has been host to filming for many top films and TV shows including Outlander, Harry Potter and Skyfall with the University's main campus often playing a starring role!
What’s it like to study in the stunning surroundings of Loch Lomond?
Third year Immunology student Lois visited UofG’s teaching and research centre SCENE for her Life Sciences Away Day, and she shares her experience of the food, facilities and activities on offer!
Did you know that the Scottish Highlands are on Glasgow’s doorstep?
First year Psychology student Ella decided to swap the city for a trip to Callander with her Mum, and shows us the ‘gateway to the Highlands’.
There’s so much to see on Glasgow’s doorstep.
Join 2nd year Biomedical Engineering student Sophia and her friends on a day trip to Stirling to visit the cat café, the famous Stirling castle and a local Christmas market.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/whoswho:
Principal and Vice Chancellor
Professor Sir Anton Muscatelli has been Principal and Vice-Chancellor, University of Glasgow since October 2009.
From 2007-2009 he was Principal and Vice-Chancellor of Heriot-Watt University.
An economist, his research interests are monetary economics, central bank independence, fiscal policy, international finance and macroeconomics.
Sir Anton is a member of the University Grants Committee, Hong Kong and he is Chair of its Research Group.
He was a Director of the UK Universities Superannuation Scheme (2015-2024), one of the largest private pension funds in the UK.
From 2017-2020 he was Chair of the prestigious Russell Group of UK research-intensive universities.
He has held numerous UK and Scottish government advisory roles including Chair of the First Minister of Scotland’s Standing Council on Europe, member of the Scottish Government’s Council of Economic Advisers and adviser to the House of Commons Treasury Select Committee.
He has also advised the European Commission and the World Bank.
Sir Anton was knighted in 2017 for services to economics and higher education and was awarded the honour of Knight Commander (Commendatore) by the Republic of Italy in 2008 for contributions to higher education and economic science.
He holds an honorary degree from McGill University in Canada.
(Estates Committee, Finance Committee, People & Organisational Development Committee, Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee)
(October 2009 - September 2025)
Professor Sir Anton Muscatelli
Senior Vice Principal and Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academic)
Frank Coton is also Professor of Low Speed Aerodynamics.
He leads on University-level resource planning and, together with the Executive Director of Human Resources, leads the introduction of processes and policies associated with academic career development and the academic aspects of organisational development.
He also has responsibility for oversight and leadership of the development, implementation and governance of the University strategy in relation to IT and digital technologies.
Between 2010 and early 2019, Frank had responsibility for the development of educational policy and strategy and all teaching quality processes across the University.
Prior to this, until December 2009, he was Dean of the Faculty of Engineering.
During his time at Glasgow he has led a number of major infrastructure projects including installation of the Combined Heat and Power system, the Telephony system and the development of the James McCune-Smith Learning Hub.
A former Chair of the UK Russell Group Committee of Pro-Vice Chancellors for Learning and Teaching, Frank’s academic background is in Aerospace Engineering and, in particular, aerodynamics.
He is an Associate Editor of the Journal of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) and a former Chair of the AIAA Applied Aerodynamics Committee.
He is a Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
‌
Deputy Vice Chancellor (Operations) and University’s Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary
Prior to this, David was Registrar and Secretary at the University of York, a post he held for 8 years.
Before then he was Secretary of the University of Dundee from 2001-8.
David is a graduate of the University of Aberdeen and holds a Masters degree and a PhD in history from Queen’s University, Canada.
Vice Principal (Research and Knowledge Exchange)
Professor Chris Pearce is responsible for research strategy and policy development, working in collaboration with our four academic colleges.
He is supported in this role by key professional services including Research & Innovation Services, Library, Planning, Insights & Analytics, and HR.
Chris is also Professor of Computational Mechanics in the James Watt School of Engineering and holds the Royal Academy of Engineering / EDF Energy Research chair.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers and a Chartered Engineer.
He is co-Director of the Glasgow Computational Engineering Centre, on the Board of the Scotland 5G Centre and the Board of the Scottish Research Partnership of Engineering.
Since 2016, Chris has been Dean of Research and Deputy Head of the College of Science & Engineering.
He leads the University’s Smart Campus project, with a vision to create a campus that is open, connected, adaptable and sustainable.
Vice Principal (External Relations) and Deputy Vice Chancellor (External Engagement)
Rachel Sandison has responsibility for leading the University’s strategy for external engagement and an integrated Directorate covering Marketing; Student Recruitment; Admissions; Internationalisation; Widening Access and Development & Alumni Relations.
Rachel has responsibility for international partnership development and is the University's Universitas 21 network Senior Leader and the institutional lead for our European network, The Guild, thereby supporting the activity of a global group of research-intensive universities.
Rachel is a Chartered Marketer and is currently the Chair of the CASE Europe Marketing Institute whilst also contributing to several sector advisory boards both at home and overseas.
Vice Principal and Head of College of Arts & Humanities
Professor Jo Gill is Vice-Principal and Head of the College of Arts & Humanities, and Professor of Twentieth-Century and American Literature.
She joined the University of Glasgow in August 2022 from the University of Exeter where she served as Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Executive Dean of the College of Humanities.
She previously held the roles of Associate Dean for Education (2018-19) and Associate Dean for International and Development (2016-18).
Jo was educated at a comprehensive school in the north-west of England and took her BA at Leicester and her MA at York.
She then worked in newspapers, publishing and the charity sector prior to returning to academia and taking her PhD at the University of Gloucestershire (2001).
Jo’s research and teaching interests include modern American poetry and the literature and culture of cities and suburbs.
She is the author of numerous books and articles including Anne Sexton’s Confessional Poetics (2007), The Cambridge Introduction to Sylvia Plath (2008) and The Poetics of the American Suburbs (2013).
Her latest book, which was completed with the support of a Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship, is Modern American Poetry and the Architectural Imagination: The Harmony of Forms (OUP, forthcoming).
Jo served for six years as Governor, and then Chair of Governors, at Richard Huish Sixth Form College, Somerset.
She is former secretary to the British Association for American Studies (BAAS) and was the inaugural co-chair of the BAAS/US Embassy Grants Programme.
She has previously served as a trustee of the Exeter Northcott Theatre and currently sits on the Advisory Board of the “93% Club.”
Vice Principal and Head of College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences
Professor Iain McInnes is a global leader in the field of arthritis research.
He has just been appointed as Vice Principal and Head of College of Medical Veterinary and Life Sciences in the University of Glasgow.
Over two decades, he has led numerous clinical trials and pathogenesis investigation programmes in inflammatory arthritis at the international level.
His work has focused upon the biology of inflammatory cytokines in arthritis and extended to other inflammatory diseases.
More recently he has worked on the mechanisms of co-morbidities in chronic diseases.
He has in addition pioneered the area of precision medicine in inflammatory arthritis.
For the last 5 years, he has served as the Director of the ARUK Centre of Excellence for Rheumatoid Arthritis, now renewed as the UK Centre for Inflammatory Arthritis through to 2024.
He is Chief Investigator of the IMID-Bio-UK meta-consortium leading the UK effort to discover precision medicine tractable biomarkers for application in immune diseases.
He is immediate past chairman of the Foreum (Foundation for European Rheumatology Research) Scientific Committee, leads the European Roadmap programme that is defining the research agenda for European rheumatology for the next decade and in 2019 became President of EULAR, the leading transnational society for rheumatology across Europe.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences.
He has been recipient of a number of prizes recognizing his work including e.g.
the Sir James Black Medal, 2017, The Heberden Medal from BSR in 2018 and most recently the Carol Nachmann Prize in 2019.
He was made CBE by Her Majesty the Queen in 2019.
Vice Principal and Head of College of Science & Engineering
Professor Yeatman was previously Head of the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Imperial College London, having been an academic there since 1989, publishing more than 350 papers and patents during his tenure.
As Professor of Micro-Engineering, he has led research programmes in photonics, micro-mechanics, smart cities, and micro-robotics for medicine.
He is a Fellow of both the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and the Royal Academy of Engineering, from which he has also received the Silver Medal.
He co-founded and served as chairman of Microsaic Systems plc, which led the introduction of the first desktop mass spectrometers to the market.
He was also the founder and leader of I-X, Imperial's cross-disciplinary AI initiative, which involves 19 academic departments.
He also helped to establish Imperial's Centre for Sectoral Economic Performance, a collaboration between the Engineering and Business Schools, supported by the Gatsby Foundation.
Vice Principal and Head of College of Social Sciences
Professor Carter also holds several external appointments.
She is a member of the Council of Economic Advisers to the First Minister of Scotland; the Enterprise & Skills Strategic Board; the Scottish Framework and Action Plan for Women in Enterprise Action Group; and Non-Executive Director of Women’s Enterprise Scotland.
Previously, she was a member of the Leverhulme Trust Research Awards Advisory Committee and also served on the UK Government’s Women’s Enterprise Task Force.
She was awarded an OBE for services to women entrepreneurs in 2008.
Professor Carter was Editor and Senior Editor of Entrepreneurship Theory & Practice from 2006-2012.
She currently serves on the editorial board of leading academic journals, including the Journal of Business Venturing.
Her research examines the effects of business ownership on the individual, the economic wellbeing of entrepreneurial households, and the consequences of structural inequalities on resource access, particularly finance, on the SME sector.
Vice Principal (Learning & Teaching)
Professor Moira Fischbacher-Smith is responsible for strategy and policy development for learning and teaching, oversees quality enhancement, admissions policy and widening participation, and leads on collaborations with the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA), Further Education Colleges and Glasgow International College.
She is a member of the Project Board that is developing a new Learning and Teaching Hub on the University's main campus and oversees refurbishment of central teaching spaces on campus.
Vice Principal for Economic Development and Innovation and Deputy Chief Operating Officer
Uzma Khan is Vice-Principal for Economic Development and Innovation, and Deputy Chief Operating Officer at the University of Glasgow, which she joined in November 2020.
Her role includes overseeing several corporate functions that support the University’s approach to delivering its latest strategy ‘World Changers Together - Strategy 2025’, including Planning, Research and Innovation Services, and Economic Development.
In her capacity as Vice-Principal, Uzma has responsibility for ensuring delivery of the University’s innovation ambitions and in articulating the contribution and impact of innovation activity on the city, region and national economy.
Uzma currently holds a number of non-executive director and trustee roles including at the David Hume Institute, The Poverty Alliance and more recently, has joined CodeBase.
Prior to joining the Higher Education sector, Uzma spent 20 years in the civil service as a professional economist in Scottish Government, providing economic advice and analysis across a range of sectors and portfolios, including economy, health, transport and lifelong learning.
Clerk of Senate and Vice Principal (Academic Services)
As Clerk of Senate, Martin Hendry is responsible for the governance of academic policy and practice, as well as for academic standards, across the University.
The Clerk of Senate also oversees student conduct and academic ceremonies, most notably the Graduation ceremonies held each June/July and November/December.
Martin is also Professor of Gravitational Astrophysics and Cosmology in the School of Physics and Astronomy, where he was Head of School 2012-2020.
He is a senior member of the LIGO Scientific Collaboration, which in 2015 made the first ever detection of gravitational waves – a discovery that was awarded the 2017 Nobel Prize for Physics.
Martin is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Institute of Physics.
In 2015 he was awarded the MBE for services to the public understanding of science.
Assistant Vice Principal (Strategy & Resources)
Professor Carl Goodyear actively supports the Senior Vice Principal in the overall strategic and operational leadership and direction of the University.
He contributes to the leadership of the development, implementation and progress monitoring of the University’s Strategic Plan and to institutional resource planning.
Carl is also a Professor of Translational Immunology & Director of Innovation, Engagement & Enterprise within the School of Infection & Immunity.
His research is currently focused on understanding immunopathogenesis of disease (i.e., Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteoarthritis & Multiple Myeloma) and translating this knowledge into viable therapeutic agents for patients.
His is also of the Director of the GLAZgo Discovery Centre, Head of the Glasgow-Lilly alliance and leads a Translational Immunology programme, which provides the critical interface between clinical and basic science.
Assistant Vice Principal (Learning & Teaching)
Wendy Anderson is Dean of Learning & Teaching in the College of Arts & Humanities, University of Glasgow.
She is Professor of Linguistics in the English Language & Linguistics subject area and her research specialism is in semantics, metaphor and corpus linguistics.
The Chancellor is the titular head of the University and is elected to the post for life by the General Council (all graduates and established academic staff).
The Chancellor confers degrees upon those who are presented to her by the Senate.
She appoints a Vice-Chancellor to do this in her absence: this is currently the Principal.
Dame Katherine Grainger DBE
The Chancellor's Assessor is appointed by the Chancellor to represent her on Court.
Her appointed Assessor is Mr Bo Hu.
Dr Bo Hu
Gregor Caldow is the Executive Director of Finance at The University of Glasgow.
He joined the University in March 2016 as the Group Financial Controller and was appointed as Executive Director of Finance in August 2020.
As the Executive Director of Finance, Gregor is responsible for the overall financial health and prosperity of the University.
Gregor’s previous experience includes nine years with Royal Dutch Shell, laterally as the Head of Finance for Risk and Insurance after senior roles in financial controls and cost sharing.
Prior to this he spent eight years with Motorola and Freescale Semiconductors in a range of roles including Factory Controller, EMEA internal audit manager and EMEA Shared Services Manager.
Gregor is a Chartered Accountant and has a BA (Hons) in Accounting and Economics.
Christine Barr is the Executive Director of People and Organisational Development at the University of Glasgow.
Christine is a solution focused leader with a track record of delivery at corporate and strategic levels both within the public and private sectors.
She has successfully led significant performance related reward, people development and organisational change programmes that facilitate the achievement of business goals.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel & Development with an MSc in Human Resources Management, Christine spent her early career in a series of HR professional roles in the retail, manufacturing and water industries.
Following a period in the further education sector, Christine originally joined the University of Glasgow as an HR business partner following which she led a number of major strategic HR leadership projects becoming Deputy Director of the service in 2010, prior to taking up her current role in December 2013.
Christine has led the development and implementation of the University’s People Strategy in the achievement of major HR strategic initiatives aligned with the ambitious strategic plans of the institution.
She is an active participant in the UHR, Russell Group and Universitas 21 networks.
The University’s overall Equality Champion is the Principal and Vice Chancellor, Professor Sir Anton Muscatelli .
Six other Equality Champions, all drawn from senior management, have specific responsibilities for the following protected characteristics.
In 2013 the University also created the role of Refugee Champion and in 2017 created the role of Mental Health Champion .
All Champions promote and raise awareness around equality issues and provide feedback to the Equality and Diversity Strategy Committee .
Their role includes:
Vice-Principal and Head of College of Arts & Humanities
Vice-Principal and Head of College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences
Professor Iain McInnes is a global leader in the field of arthritis research.
Vice-Principal and Head of College of Science & Engineering
Professor Eric Yeatman is Vice-Principal and Head of College of Science and Engineering.
Professor Yeatman was an academic at Imperial College London from 1989, publishing more than 350 papers and patents during his tenure.
He is also the founder and leader of I-X, Imperial's cross-disciplinary AI initiative, which involves 19 academic departments.
Vice-Principal and Head of College of Social Sciences
The Rector is elected by the students of the University to represent their interests.
He or she is also, ex-officio, the Chairperson of the University Court, the body which administers the resources of the University.
The Rector is not active in University strategy or policy-making.
The role is principally as spokesperson and representative for student issues.
The Rector's participation in events is entirely voluntary and depends on their own availability and choice.
Dr Ghassan Abu-Sittah is the current Rector elected in March 2024.
Professor Sarah Armstrong
(Audit and Risk Committee, Student Experience Committee) (1 August 2023 - 31 July 2027)
‌ Professor Dan Haydon
(Finance Committee, Nominations Committee) (1 November 2022 - 31 October 2026)
Professor Simon Kennedy
(Estates Committee, Finance Committee) (August 2017 - July 2025)
Professor Tara Brendle
(Estates Committee, People & Organisational Development Committee) (January 2024 - December 2027)
Professor Bethan Wood
(People & Organisational Development Committee, Remuneration Committee, Information Policy & Strategy Committee) (September 2017 - July 2025)
‌‌‌
The Senior Management Group advises the Principal as chief executive officer of the University on matters of policy.
It also advises Court and Senate on matters of strategic policy (academic and resource), and acts on a day-to-day basis to implement the policies of Court and Senate.
The Senior Management Group comprises:
The Shadow Board is supported by Christine Barr as the SMG Sponsor and James Hamilton as advisor for the Shadow Board.
Read more about the Shadow Board on their dedicated webpages.
I am a graduate of the University of Glasgow and have recently returned to my role as Assistant Director of Registry having been seconded to posts in Student Engagement and Academic Policy & Governance during 2022 and 2023.
I have worked in Higher Education since 2006, and within that time I have been responsible for a wide range of student-facing and operational activities, including Examinations, Financial Aid, Immigration Compliance and International Student Support and at the University of Glasgow, as well as tuition fee forecasting and Student Services at other institutions.
I was selected as Chair of the Shadow Board in August 2023, and I hope to be able to use my skills and experience to act as a critical friend to the Senior Management Group and make a positive difference for both staff and students.
Paul Harvey is a lecturer in Autonomous Systems at the James Watt School of Engineering, University of Glasgow.
Additionally, he is a working group co-chair in the UN’s ITU-T Focus Group on Autonomous Networks and a visiting researcher at the University of Strathclyde.
Paul also possess extensive experience in industrial research, where he was co-founder and research lead of the Rakuten Mobile Innovation Studio, and is a strong believer in open and collaborative research.
www.paul-harvey.org
I am a research fellow working at the interface of chemistry, robotics, and computing science.
A new addition to the shadowboard, I joined in 2022.
I have lived, worked, and studied in Iran and Canada prior to coming to Scotland, including a period of working for the Canadian Ministry of Health just before starting my post-doc in the Cronin group at Glasgow in March 2018.
As an early-career researcher, I am glad to be able to represent the University's younger academics in the shadowboard, in addition to the concerns of the student body with whom researchers are invariably connected.
I have been a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship since May 2022 working on next generation chemical discovery engines.
I joined the University in 2009 and worked in International Recruitment based in External Relations for nine years, before joining Registry in 2018.
Currently, I am Graduation and Ceremonial Events Coordinator, managing university events including Commemoration Day and Remembrance Sunday.
I am also Clerk to several committees including the Honorary Degrees and Academic Dress committees, and Secretary to the Military Education Committee of Glasgow and Strathclyde Universities.
In my time at the University, I have worked collaboratively with staff from across the institution, something I look forward to continuing on the Shadow Board.
In my spare time, I enjoy walking, reading and range of arts and crafts.
My preferred pronouns are they/ them.
As the Student Operations Manager for College of Science and Engineering, I work collegiately to deliver an excellent service to our students and colleagues while aspiring to improve learning and teaching systems and processes for all.
My experience in both School and College teams provides me with a comprehensive understanding of the learning and teaching space which I really value and will bring with me to the Shadow Board.
I will approach the Shadow Board with openness and innovation, and am looking forward to becoming a critical friend to the Senior Management Group.
I am committed to make a positive difference for both students and colleagues.
I am an Events Management professional with a passion for stakeholder experience, currently leading the Events Team within the External Relations Directorate.
I have 15 years of experience in events and stakeholder engagement within the higher education sector, including seven at the University of Glasgow.
My previous experience includes working within the private sector and in Arts & Culture, which is something I have a personal passion for.
Through my experience in Events, I have engaged with a wide array of internal and external stakeholders including prospective and exisiting students, alumni, donors, strategic partners, academics and everyone else in between!
I am committed to ensuring that anyone who engages with the University through one of our events has a positive experience and feels a part of the #TeamUofG community.
I will embrace this new opportunity to support the Senior Management Team as a critical friend on the Shadow Board with a can-do mindset and hope to represent the University’s values in action.
I am a Lecturer in Comparative Literature in the School of Modern Languages and Cultures with specialisms in French, Italian, and Iranian Studies.
I joined the University of Glasgow in January 2023.
Prior to this, I held posts at Oxford, Warwick, and King’s College London.
The rapid expansion and privatisation of the UK higher education sector has left many academics and students feeling disconnected from decisions and disillusioned about the state of universities.
I am therefore proud to work at an institution with a Shadow Board, giving those of us on the ground a valuable opportunity to share our feedback with senior management.
I am the Student Operations Manager for the College of Social Sciences (CoSS) .
I joined the University in 2019 having previously worked in a variety of people leadership and programme management roles within the financial services sector.
My role involves working with colleagues within CoSS , other Colleges and University level services to help shape and deliver the best possible support for our UG and PGR students throughout their studies.
I strongly believe in the purpose of the Shadow Board and welcome the opportunity to build on the work to date, exchanging knowledge and experience with fellow Board members in order to provide constructive support and challenge to the Senior Management Group.
A proud graduate of the University of Glasgow, I spent fifteen years as a hospitality manager in both the public and private sectors before changing career in 2019.
It was at this point I joined the University as a junior administrator while completing my master’s degree, and as such I hope to offer the Shadow Board insights from both a staff and mature student perspective.
In May 2024 I began a new role in our Equality Diversity & Inclusion (EDI) team as a Policy and Project Lead.
This involves development of EDI initiatives including support for equality charters and EDI-related learning and development, alongside provision of specialist advice to managers, colleagues and students.
Outside of work I enjoy doing battle with my garden, table-top gaming, and strength training at the gym.
I welcome the opportunity to use my skills and experience to ensure that the services, strategy and initiatives we are delivering as an institution are fair and accessible to everyone.
I currently hold the position of Research Laboratory Manager for the BECS research group in the School of Geographical & Earth Sciences (GES), where my focus is on organic geochemistry and analytical chemistry.
In addition, I also fulfil the role of Technician Commitment Coordinator for the University.
My academic background includes a Bachelor of Science Honours degree in Chemistry and Environmental Science from the Open University.
I commenced my professional journey at the University of Glasgow in 2012 as a Modern Apprentice immediately after high school.
Upon successfully completing the apprenticeship programme in 2014, I transitioned into a technician role within the School of Chemistry while concurrently pursuing my academic degree.
Throughout the ensuing years, I progressed through various technical positions both at the University of Glasgow and Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh.
Since 2017, my operational focus has been within the School of Geographical & Earth Sciences, where I presently oversee research laboratory activities.
In 2020, I was entrusted with the responsibility of University Technician Commitment Coordinator, tasked with spearheading the formulation and execution of the University's Technician Commitment Action Plans and championing the visibility, recognition, career development, and sustainability of technical roles campus-wide.
I am wholeheartedly committed to leveraging my knowledge and skills to contribute towards advancing the objectives of the Shadow Board in fostering positive transformation within the University.
I am a Digital Product Manager who has been at the University of Glasgow since early 2023.
I lead cross-functional projects that deliver student-driven improvements and features across our digital portfolio, including the UofG Life App, Student Portal, and the UofG Design System.
My experience is primarily in software development at startups, but I also worked in Marketing at the University of Iowa Press early in my career.
I studied Book History and Material Culture at the University of Edinburgh and previously lived on the Black Isle.
I immigrated from the United States to join the University, bringing along my elderly poodle, and I enjoy playing tabletop games and reading in my spare time.
I look forward to being a critical friend to the Senior Management Group while on the Shadow Board.
My pronouns are she/her.
I am a Lecturer in Religious Studies in the School of Critical Studies, specialisinig in Sufism, faith and sustainability, Jewish-Muslim interactions, as well as the globalisation of Japanese traditions.
I am committed to making a positive impact on university life, and have (co-)organised and been involved with numerous academic and other events in public, cultural/heritage and charity sectors.
I am part of the School EDI Team, leading the Accessibility and Inclusivity Development working group.
As a former international student in Scotland and a non-native speaker of English, I am keen to create opportunities to celebrate diversity more.
I welcome the opportunity to contribute to the Shadow Board in order to benefit the wider university community of students and staff, and administration.
I am a Lecturer in the School of Molecular Biosciences, where I coordinate a first year course and act as Deputy Programme Coordinator for the Molecular and Cellular Biology degree.
After completing my PhD at the University of St Andrews, I held research positions there and at the University of Exeter before transitioning to a teaching-focused role at the University of Glasgow in 2020.
I am passionate about research-led teaching and science outreach.
As a member of the shadow board, I look forward to collaborating with colleagues across the university, providing constructive feedback, and making a positive impact on our academic community.
Position
Name
Register of interests
can be found
Rector
Dr Ghassan Abu-Sittah
(Student Experience Committee)
(April 2024 - March 2027)
Chancellor's Assessor
(Information Policy & Strategy Committee
(July 2023 - July  2027)
Assessor of the City of Glasgow Council
Cllr Susan Aitken
(June 2017 - May 2027)
Two General Council Assessors The General Council is a statutory body comprising all the graduates of the University of Glasgow.
Dr Christine Middlemiss
(July 2022 - July 2026)
Stuart Hoggan
(Estates Committee, Audit and Risk Committee, Finance Committee)
Five Elected Academic Staff Members (Senate Assessors)
One Elected Professional Services (Support) Staff Member
(Audit and Risk Committee, Student Experience Committee)
(1 August 2023 - 31 July 2027)
(Finance Committee, Nominations Committee)
(1 November 2022 - 31 October 2026)
Professor Richard Reeve
(TBC)
(1 August 2025 - 31 July 2029)
(Estates Committee, People & Organisational Development Committee)
(January 2024 - December 2027)
Professor Ben Colburn
(1 August 2025 - 31 July 2029)
Mr Christopher Kennedy
(Estates Committee, Health Safety and Wellbeing Committee)
(August 2019 - July 2027)
Two Trade Union Nominees
(People & Organisational Development Committee)
Paula McKerrow
(Nominations Committee, Health Safety and Wellbeing Committee, People & Organisational Development Committee)
(August 2021 - July 2029)
President of Students’ Representative Council
Duncan Calvert
(Student Experience Committee, Estates Committee, Finance Committee, Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee, Information Policy & Strategy Committee)
(July 2025 - June 2026)
Assessor of Students’ Representative Council
Vacant
(1 November 2025 - 31 October 2026)
Nine Co-opted members
Mary Jane Brouwers
(Finance Committee)
(October 2024 - September 20228
Kerry Christie
(People & Organisational Development Committee, Remuneration Committee) (Vice-Convener of Court)
(October 2023 - October 2027)
Professor Nicola Dandridge
(Student Experience Committee, Nominations Committee)
Mr David Finlayson
(October 2017 - October 2025)
Laic Khalique
(Information Policy & Strategy Committee)
(April 2021 - March 2029)
Jonathan Loukes
(December 2021 - December 2025)
Lorraine McMillan
(Audit and Risk Committee)
August 2024 - July 2028)
Shan Saba
(People and Organisational Development Committee, Remuneration Committee)
(April 2022 - April 2026)
Mr Gavin Stewart (Convenor of Court)
(Finance Committee, Nominations Committee, Remuneraton Committee)
(April 2017 - July 2028) Appointed Convener of Court (August 2024)
Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary
Dr David Duncan

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/jobs:
We have launched our brand-new Jobs at UofG recruitment website, to provide you with a better applicant experience.
Search our vacancies

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/campusdevelopment:
In 2017, the University launched an ambitious initiative to transform the 14-acre former Western Infirmary site, adjacent to the Gilmorehill campus, into a hub for teaching, learning, civic engagement, and research.
This Development Programme is one of the largest campus expansions in the UK.
Despite the challenges faced due to the global pandemic, the University has successfully completed four state-of-the-art academic buildings: the James McCune Smith Learning Hub (JMS), the Mazumdar-Shaw Advanced Research Centre (ARC), the Clarice Pears Building, and the Adam Smith Building.
These facilities, along with newly developed expansive public spaces and supporting infrastructure, have become a key part of both the University and the Glasgow West End communities, transforming the area into a welcoming neighbourhood in the heart of the city.
https://youtu.be/Kw9F0Gg6vBQ
As we enter the next stage of the Campus Development Programme, various teams across the University are actively shaping how further investment in our physical realm will continue to enable our world-changing research and teaching.
Currently, we are embarking on the Keystone Building development while also exploring additional locations for future expansion.
At the same time, we are investing in our ongoing programme of campus refurbishments.
Contact Us
Campus Masterplan
Contact the Estates Service Desk
Explore Estates Webpages
The University is further enhancing the student experience by delivering high-quality, close-to-campus accommodation on Church Street.
The University is exploring plans to transform Lilybank Gardens, redeveloping the existing hardstanding area into an inclusive, student-centred hub, featuring modern accommodation and accessible public spaces.
The University is planning to invest over £20 million in new facilities for our world-renowned School of Biodiversity, One Health and Veterinary Medicine over the next three years.
The Adam Smith Building is a modern, purpose built and world-leading home for our Adam Smith Business School.
It also contains the first dedicated facility for Postgraduate Taught (PGT) students, providing more space for PGT growth, research and teaching.
COMPLETED.
The Clarice Pears Building houses the University's School of Health & Wellbeing, enabling colleagues from the MRC / CSO Social and Public Health Sciences Unit at Renfield Street and staff at Gartnavel General Hospital to be co-located on the Gilmorehill Campus.
COMPLETED
Opened in June 2022 the £116 million Mazumdar-Shaw Advanced Research Centre (ARC) is the vibrant, creative and collaborative heart of the Western campus.
It houses around 600 academics, postdoctoral researchers and PhD students working across five themes.
The ground floor (level 2) is accessible to the whole University and the wider community, providing a forum for knowledge exchange and public engagement.
The £90.6 million James McCune Smith Learning Hub provides a state of the art learning and the teaching facility with the capacity for more than 2,500 students.
The University is investing £70 million in infrastructure to connect new buildings and create new civic spaces.
As the University embraces our civic role in the city and the city region, we are focused on building the partnerships which will enable delivery and impact.
In recent years and going forward the University has worked closely with:
We also regularly work across planning and policy teams within the council and respond to consultations that cover a wide range of activities, which all have an impact on the future development of the city, be that innovation space, housing, low-carbon energy solutions and future transport options.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/library:
The University of Glasgow Library is one of the oldest and largest university libraries in Europe.
Find out more about the Library

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/awardsandrankings:
World top 100: QS World University Rankings
World top 100: Times Higher Education World University Rankings
UK top 15: Guardian University Guide

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/unsdgs:
A university for the world
Our commitment to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals
For 573 years the University of Glasgow has been changing the world; from pioneering innovations and inventions to inspiring generations of students to use their knowledge and skills as a force for good.
Since our institution was founded all those years ago, we have made great progress in further widening access to education and we have committed to transforming our Gilmorehill estate, investing around £1.5bn in recent years to create thriving new spaces for collaboration and learning.
Of course, education is a major vehicle for reducing inequality, offering opportunities for better paid jobs and creating pathways to positive destinations.
However, addressing inequality goes beyond education.
It’s important to ensure we are directly tackling the root causes of inequity: poor health; environment; socioeconomic inequalities; and discrimination.
Locally, we remain resolutely focused on improving outcomes for communities across our city region, driving inclusive economic growth through the Glasgow Riverside Innovation District and addressing stubborn inequalities through our broad portfolio of research.
Nevertheless, the work we do as a University must transcend this.
The very fabric of our societies relies on having strong institutions which stand with those most marginalised, and we can only be a great civic institution if we are a great global institution.
Through the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) we have a collective mission across our University to use our science, research, innovation, teaching and community action to effect change at a local and global level.
We must work together to take an all encompassing approach to address the major challenges facing the world, from racial injustices and gender inequality to disease and poverty, climate change and food insecurity.
I’m grateful to each and every member of our community who has played their part so far in supporting us to achieve the 17 UN SDGs.
Going forward we will use our role as an anchor institution to forge closer local connections and to build new global, interdisciplinary partnerships based on equity and a shared commitment to the SDGs.
Professor Sir Anton Muscatelli Principal and Vice-Chancellor
Our 2024 report is our fourth annual publication, intended to provide an update on some of the work and activity that has been taking place across the University of Glasgow to contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
We continue to look at four areas of activity:
We are immensely proud of the commitment, dedication and innovation shown by every part of our community.
This report was produced and steered by Economic Development, Planning Insight & Analytics and External Relations.
Thanks go to colleagues in these directorates for their help and guidance in producing this document, as well as to colleagues across the University for their valuable input.
UN SDGs in action
Find out about our progress towards the 17 SDGs:
This report is the fourth comprehensive annual publication by the University of Glasgow assessing our contribution to the delivery of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Since our inaugural report in 2021, the SDGs have become an increasingly important part of how we capture the impact of our activities at a local, regional, national and global level and of how we assess new ways of contributing to the goals.
We were delighted to see our institutional commitment to the SDGs reflected in our strong performance in a number of global sustainability rankings, and aim to use this report to highlight the wide-ranging and impactful work of our colleagues.
We have a long history of world-changing research and innovation, outstanding teaching and partnerships, and a commitment to service excellence from our staff.
Our approach to sustainability runs through our academic, operational and civic activity.
Our quadruple helix approach, bringing together academia, industry, public bodies and our communities is a true partnership towards all our collective goals and we continue to work with these partners for the city of Glasgow and globally, to make a tangible contribution to tackling society’s grand challenges.
Uzma Khan
Vice-Principal for Economic Development & Innovation and Deputy Chief Operating Officer

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/awardsandrankings/sustainability-rankings:
We are ranked in the top 20 universities in the world for sustainability.
We rank top in Scotland, second in the UK and third in Europe.
The THE Impact Rankings benchmark performance of universities against the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
They consider universities’ commitment to addressing the world's most pressing challenges, including environmental sustainability, social inclusion, economic growth, and partnerships.
We are ranked in the world’s top 50 in 11 SDGs and in the world top 10 for three SDGs:
As a reflection of our commitment to the SDGs, we:
"It is fantastic to see the University of Glasgow once again recognised as a global leader in sustainable development by the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings, a result that is even more impressive given the increasing number of institutions around the world taking part.
This result reflects our commitment and leadership in delivering real-world solutions to the most pressing challenges facing society today.
I’d like to thank our community [colleagues, students and partners] for their hard work and dedication in realising these." Professor Sir Anton Muscatelli, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Glasgow

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/sustainability:
Researchers are taking a multitude of approaches to bring tangible solutions to urban challenges
A project partnering with Glasgow City Council.
It aims to move the city towards climate resilience while also addressing health, social and economic inequalities
A unique festival bringing research, local artists and public together to celebrate creativity, sustainability and community.
All research spotlights
Make a donation to the sustainable projects of our Chancellor’s Fund
Empowering students to improve the environmental practice of the University.
Glasgow degrees related to sustainability and the environment

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/civic:
The University of Glasgow was founded for the benefit of the city and its people.
We work with companies and organisations throughout the city to co-design solutions to create real, lasting impact and opportunity in Glasgow and beyond.
Our staff and students are engaged in strong, enduring research and community partnerships to improve health, boost the economy , build a better future and celebrate the achievements of those living in Glasgow.
Solutions for Change is a community and researcher partnership programme which tackles societal challenges.
Bright Club combines comedy and academia to entertain and engage Glasgow audiences.
Providing Glasgow students with valuable experience of volunteering and supporting local communities.
Learn about the community sustainability projects funded by Glasgow Open Lab, a part of CIVIS.
Working in partnership to create a centre of excellence for research, teaching, public engagement and health and wellbeing.
Tackling health inequalities in General Practice and supporting the most socio-economically deprived patients in Scotland.
An award-winning collaboration, evaluating the community engagement strategies of the Playground and supporting the families of Dalmarnock in Glasgow.
Working with teachers, parents and local authorities to improve life for school children in Glasgow and throughout Scotland.
The Trusty Paws clinic has been set up by veterinary students to provide care to homeless dogs in Glasgow.
Working in partnership to establish Glasgow as a global centre of excellence for chronic disease, precision medicine and imaging.
Building a sustainable future through education, research and partnership.
Increasing opportunities for people from every background.
University of Glasgow dental students helping the people of Glasgow to improve their oral health.
Working together to tackle malnutrition in older people in Scotland.
Exploring people's experiences of walking during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Introducing Glasgow audiences to the diversity of African cinema.
Establishing Glasgow's leadership in the high-tech industries of the future.
Bringing together STEM subject academics, industry, student teachers and school pupils throughout the UK.
Working in partnership with industry to provide a workbased learning route to a degree and a career
Dr Helen Traill talks about the research collaboration with Baltic Street Adventure Playground to develop a community food hub in Dalmarnock, Glasgow.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/internationalisation:
Our Global Glasgow: International Strategy 2025 articulates our global ambitions, and supports the vision conveyed in our institutional strategy World Changers Together, World Changing Glasgow 2025.
The University of Glasgow unreservedly upholds human rights with regard to sexual orientation and personal privacy.
In determining our partnerships, we consider the human rights environment in which such operations are or are likely to be located.
In establishing any partnership we comply with the law of the land while ensuring that the operational and support systems employed in any University of Glasgow entity are in accordance with our statutes and institutional principles.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/news:
Wed, 27 Aug 2025 11:15:00 BST
A new briefing examines and offers learnings from the implementation of the Homes for Ukraine and Scottish Super Sponsor Scheme in Scotland.
Wed, 27 Aug 2025 06:00:24 BST
Researchers at the MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research have begun a new study that could influence how we protect babies from serious respiratory illness
Tue, 26 Aug 2025 08:30:00 BST
Researchers from the University of Glasgow led an international team of scientists who analysed the data which is released today from the fourth observing run of the LIGO, Virgo, and KAGRA gravitational-wave observatories
Tue, 26 Aug 2025 00:01:00 BST
The University of Glasgow, in partnership with leading research institutes across Africa and Europe, is spearheading the first interconnected observatory network for mosquitoes and mosquito-borne diseases in Africa.
Thu, 21 Aug 2025 15:51:00 BST
UofG legal experts have led a review for the Scottish Government into the delivery of Independent Legal Representation for complainers at hearings, to determine whether evidence of their sexual history or character should be admitted in sexual offence cases
Thu, 21 Aug 2025 07:00:00 BST
Global disease experts are joining forces to strengthen our scientific understanding of the potentially deadly Rift Valley fever virus and its impact across Africa
Wed, 20 Aug 2025 10:00:00 BST
Annual rates of marine mammal strandings have increased in the last 30 years, across all species of dolphins, whales and porpoise native to Scottish waters
Wed, 20 Aug 2025 09:00:00 BST
The archaeological fieldwork is being supported by Society of Antiquaries of Scotland and will help to preserve the legacy of Scotland’s first skatepark, with opportunities for the public to get involved.
Wed, 20 Aug 2025 08:30:00 BST
Researchers from Scottish universities have developed an innovative way to breathe new life into outdated robot pets and toys using augmented reality technology.
Tue, 19 Aug 2025 14:00:00 BST
A team of University of Glasgow engineering students have won a major national competition for their efforts to design a robot rover capable of exploring the surface of Mars.
Mon, 18 Aug 2025 12:00:00 BST
Owners of at least two puppies from the same litter, are being asked to sign up to Dogs Trust’s Generation Pup study to take part in a groundbreaking project run in collaboration with the University of Glasgow.
Mon, 18 Aug 2025 10:00:33 BST
A new venture, aimed accelerate the impact of virology research, is being launched at the MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research (CVR).
The CVR Translational Hub (CTH) will be dedicated to transforming cutting-edge virology research into impactful clinical, industrial, and public health solutions
Mon, 18 Aug 2025 08:30:00 BST
Artificial intelligence experts will discuss the impact of the rapidly advancing technology on learning, teaching and research at an event at the University of Glasgow this autumn.
Fri, 15 Aug 2025 00:01:05 BST
As the new school year begins, research by dental experts at the University of Glasgow reveals the wider health and social benefits of Scotland’s Childsmile Supervised Daily Toothbrushing Programme in nurseries and schools.
Thu, 14 Aug 2025 23:30:44 BST
A large international study has found that spironolactone, a medication for high blood pressure and heart failure, does not reduce the risk of heart-related death or hospitalizations in people with kidney failure receiving dialysis, despite earlier smaller studies suggesting benefit.
Wed, 13 Aug 2025 08:30:15 BST
An engineering researcher has been named as the recipient of a prestigious research fellowship.
Tue, 12 Aug 2025 08:00:00 BST
A filmed theatre production has secured additional funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) to expand its reach and spark discussions about the complex challenges facing UK forests.
Mon, 11 Aug 2025 15:38:14 BST
A national survey of educators in Scotland aims to capture how sustainability and the environment feature in Scottish educational settings.
Fri, 08 Aug 2025 00:01:06 BST
Researchers have found that a common tool used by clinicians for predicting kidney failure could be underestimating the risk of failure for some people.
Thu, 07 Aug 2025 00:01:00 BST
Researchers, local government and food organisations are coming together to tackle poor diet and ill health in some of the most deprived areas in Glasgow
Thu, 07 Aug 2025 08:00:00 BST
Dr Kaveh Delfanazari of the James Watt School of Engineering has received a a prestigious Royal Society Industry Fellowship to support his work on next-generation quantum electronic hardware.
Thu, 07 Aug 2025 00:38:00 BST
Racial diversity research led by Professor Nasar Meer has received Nuffield Foundation funding.
Wed, 06 Aug 2025 06:00:42 BST
Researchers from the School of Chemistry have found a new way to remove a common pollutant from water using controlled waves of ultrasound, without the use of additional chemicals.
Mon, 04 Aug 2025 12:07:00 BST
Young people from disadvantaged backgrounds have gained skills in creative arts and filmmaking while getting a taste of life at the University of Glasgow.
Mon, 28 Jul 2025 10:00:00 BST
Scientists at the Cancer Research UK Scotland Institute, based at the University of Glasgow, have made a discovery which could help stop the spread of breast cancer – one of the leading causes of death from the disease.
Mon, 28 Jul 2025 09:30:00 BST
Sir Kenneth Calman was a doctor, academic and University leader who achieved more “firsts” than virtually anyone in his generation in medicine, public service and the third sector.
Fri, 25 Jul 2025 10:37:00 BST
An innovative partnership between the University of Glasgow and the University of Wales Trinity Saint David that supports educators across Wales in implementing the Curriculum for Wales has been awarded £2million by the Welsh Government.
Thu, 24 Jul 2025 06:00:00 BST
The University of Glasgow is deeply saddened to receive the news that former Chancellor, Sir Kenneth Calman has passed away, following a short illness.
Wed, 23 Jul 2025 08:30:00 BST
A Cold War-era armoured building close to the Mull of Kintyre is set to see action again as the base for a cutting-edge rocket test and teaching facility.
Wed, 23 Jul 2025 12:02:00 BST
The Royal Society of Edinburgh has announced the 73 exceptional research projects selected at the spring 2025 Research Awards open call – including 11 recipients from the University of Glasgow.
Mon, 30 Jun 2025 14:44:00 BST
Supplementation with krill oil during an alternate day fasting diet helps to reduce the decline in both muscle mass and muscle strength
Tue, 22 Jul 2025 08:30:00 BST
A University of Glasgow physicist is teaming up with an artist to turn cosmic rays into music for a series of performances during the Edinburgh Festival Fringe.
Mon, 21 Jul 2025 12:00:25 BST
Public Health Scotland (PHS) has announced the appointment of Professor Emma Thomson and Professor Deborah Williamson and Co-Directors of the National Scottish Pandemic Sciences Partnership (NSPSP).
Fri, 18 Jul 2025 11:00:00 BST
Four of the University of Glasgow’s leading academics are among 92 distinguished scholars who have been elected to the British Academy’s Fellowship.
Wed, 16 Jul 2025 07:00:00 BST
Professor Christopher Loughrey, Head of the School of Biodiversity, One Health & Veterinary Medicine at the University of Glasgow and Professor Lisa Boden, Head of the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies and Dean of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Edinburgh, have been appointed as Vice-Chairs of the Veterinary Schools Council (VSC).
Fri, 18 Jul 2025 10:52:00 BST
War in Ukraine is transforming the country’s criminal landscape, causing economic and social damage, finds research led by Dr Taras Fedirko.
Thu, 17 Jul 2025 16:46:00 BST
Glasgow residents have a new way to engage with local climate action, thanks to a community science app designed by UofG researchers and local community members.
Wed, 16 Jul 2025 15:29:00 BST
A major repatriation effort that returned cultural artefacts to Indonesia's Warloka community was facilitated by the University of Glasgow.
Wed, 16 Jul 2025 08:30:00 BST
New national guidance on coastal infrastructure has been launched thanks to the work of an international expert at the University of Glasgow.
Tue, 15 Jul 2025 08:30:50 BST
A University of Glasgow engineer has received a prestigious award from the Royal Academy of Engineering for exceptional achievement during the early stages of his career.
Mon, 14 Jul 2025 08:30:02 BST
New advances in 3D printed ‘smart’ plastics with unusual deformation properties could lead to a new generation of materials designed to monitor their own condition in real time.
Mon, 14 Jul 2025 00:02:00 BST
The most massive black holes ever observed with gravitational waves have been discovered by scientists, with some of the analyses carried out by an international team that was led by an astrophysicist at the University of Glasgow.
Fri, 11 Jul 2025 00:01:00 BST
Researchers from the University of Glasgow teamed up with the culture and research organisation Science Ceilidh to develop a dance to mark the 10th anniversary of the historic first detection of gravitational waves.
Mon, 07 Jul 2025 08:00:00 BST
The University of Glasgow Children’s Choir, an initiative set to offer hundreds of state school pupils across the city access to high-quality music education, has been launched.
Fri, 04 Jul 2025 19:00:00 BST
Technologies such as biomedical imaging and spectroscopy could be enhanced by a discovery in research that involved several institutions including the University of Glasgow.
Mon, 30 Jun 2025 08:00:57 BST
Pioneering ultrasound technology research from Scottish universities will be on public display at a prestigious national science showcase this week.
Fri, 27 Jun 2025 08:00:00 BST
The outcomes of a new study on the extent of future flooding caused by climate change along the Clyde Estuary could help coastal cities around the world better defend themselves against rising tides and extreme weather.
Tue, 24 Jun 2025 00:01:00 BST
Scotland’s first Total-Body PET scanner is now operational at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, benefitting patients locally and nationally, and helping to speed up diagnosis, treatment and clinical trials across the UK
Fri, 20 Jun 2025 16:20:00 BST
The 21,500-ft² site at Oakbank Industrial Estate, in Maryhill unites Chemify’s AI-driven molecular-design engine with industrial-scale robotic synthesis.
Fri, 20 Jun 2025 16:00:00 BST
A £20 device which makes fertiliser by treating water with ultrasound could transform agricultural supply chains in remote areas, its inventors say.
Thu, 19 Jun 2025 08:00:00 BST
University places 79th in QS Rankings 2026, out of 1,501 institutions.
Wed, 18 Jun 2025 16:02:00 BST
The University of Glasgow awarded honorary degrees to eight individuals in recognition of their achievements in the fields of arts, politics, business, humanities and science.
Wed, 18 Jun 2025 15:25:24 BST
An evidence-based guide that will support women in film and television was launched at the University of Glasgow
Thu, 19 Jun 2025 08:30:00 BST
University of Glasgow engineers have won a major new grant to support the development of more energy-efficient superconductors which will help accelerate advances in quantum technologies.
Wed, 18 Jun 2025 16:00:00 BST
Scientists have unlocked new details on important ‘receptor’ proteins –promising targets for the creation of novel drugs for metabolic conditions ranging from diabetes to obesity and inflammatory disorders.
Wed, 18 Jun 2025 10:00:00 BST
People with better cognitive health are at lower risk of later Alzheimer’s disease, but genetics can interfere with this, according to a new study
Wed, 18 Jun 2025 07:00:03 BST
Glasgow ranks 12th out of 2,318 institutions in the annual sustainability rankings
Wed, 18 Jun 2025 08:30:00 BST
A senior researcher from a groundbreaking international science and engineering collaboration returned to visit his old Glasgow primary school this week.
Tue, 17 Jun 2025 00:01:00 BST
A major new study launching in Scotland aims to show how a simple genetic test could help doctors personalise treatments – boosting medication response and reducing harmful side effects.
Tue, 17 Jun 2025 12:02:00 BST
Five UofG academics have been awarded prestigious European Research Council (ERC) Advanced Grants – the most that the University has ever been awarded in one round.
Fri, 13 Jun 2025 08:30:04 BST
Insights from a new study could help unlock the full potential of a developing form of smaller-scale wind power generation, researchers say.
Thu, 12 Jun 2025 11:36:00 BST
The University of Glasgow’s Dental School has launched the Oral Health Research Hub, bringing together research groups across the School in an ambitious new initiative to generate effective solutions to the big oral and dental challenges facing our communities locally and globally.
Thu, 12 Jun 2025 11:00:00 BST
A groundbreaking new tool to evaluate how well film and television represent climate change is being launched to the public at the University of Glasgow’s Dear Green Music Scene festival.
Thu, 12 Jun 2025 08:00:00 BST
NHS Golden Jubilee has been formally granted University Status by the University of Glasgow, marking a significant milestone in their long-standing and increasingly integrated partnership
Wed, 11 Jun 2025 10:21:00 BST
Professor Chris Chapman has been announced as the 17th CJ Koh Professor for Education, the most prestigious endowed visiting position at the National Institute of Education (NiE) in Singapore’s Nanyang Technological University
Wed, 11 Jun 2025 08:30:00 BST
Experts from the Space and Exploration Technology Group are supporting Craft Prospect Ltd on a new contract from the European Space Agency to prototype and demonstrate machine learning algorithms for motion planning in orbital space missions.
Tue, 10 Jun 2025 08:30:00 BST
The University of Glasgow played host to 250 technicians from universities across the country this week for the Scottish Technical Conference.
Mon, 09 Jun 2025 18:00:00 BST
A groundbreaking study has found that women who experienced physical abuse in the context of domestic violence are more likely to suffer from long-term mental health challenges, even decades after the abuse has ended
Fri, 06 Jun 2025 11:46:12 BST
A transformational needs-led initiative to build a menopause community and educate, uplift and empower women has won a Herald Education Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Award.
Fri, 06 Jun 2025 05:55:00 BST
A new immersive safety training programme developed at UofG aims to enhance safety culture across the UK’s screen industries by offering a next-generation approach to crew training.
Thu, 05 Jun 2025 13:00:00 BST
The exhibition is a multidisciplinary exploration of our carbon pasts and present, and a call to better understand the futures enabled by this fascinating element.
Thu, 05 Jun 2025 08:59:56 BST
University of Glasgow researchers are hoping to develop a more targeted treatment for people with triple negative breast cancer.
Wed, 04 Jun 2025 14:04:03 BST
A major new research project focused on suicide prevention in agriculture is being announced this week by RSABI, the charity supporting people in Scottish agriculture.
Wed, 04 Jun 2025 11:00:00 BST
Rebecca Madgin, Professor of Urban Studies, has been recruited to the Department of Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) College of Experts.
New research by a leading historian from the University of Glasgow shows a surprising historical perspective on being British.
Wed, 04 Jun 2025 09:00:00 BST
Letting black rhinos roam freely may be the best way to save them from the hidden genetic dangers of inbreeding, according to a new study, the first to look at the whole genomes of these critically endangered mammals from populations in Tanzania
Tue, 03 Jun 2025 11:09:00 BST
The University of Glasgow is to launch a programme of support for women entrepreneurs as part of a roll-out of the UK’s first university network for female business founders.
Tue, 03 Jun 2025 10:17:00 BST
Research on the role of digital communications evidence in Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) applications involving rape and sexual offences has been undertaken by the University of Glasgow and Loughborough University
Mon, 02 Jun 2025 12:00:00 BST
A research team from the MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research (CVR) has been shortlisted for a prestigious Prix Galien UK Award for their groundbreaking dengue virus control strategy, which is showing impressive success in the fight against dengue in Malaysia

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/connect/supportus:
Support World Changing Glasgow
Your support, big or small, has the potential to make a difference.
At Glasgow, we believe people should be at the heart of everything we do.
We are committed, with your support, to ensuring all staff, students, and researchers reach their full potential and continue to make extraordinary achievements.
Whether you are giving your time, leaving a gift in your Will, making a regular or one-off gift, we have a project to inspire you.
Take a look at our current projects, or get in touch.
Our team would be delighted to help.
Support today, help Glasgow change the world tomorrow.
Donate
Make your gift online now
Find out how to make a lasting legacy
Discover how your donations are transforming lives

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/alumni:
At Glasgow we are proud of our alumni community of almost 300,000 graduates stretching across the globe.
The University of Glasgow experience connects us all and creates a world-changing, vibrant and generous network.
Our connection is lifelong and we hope that you continue to stay in touch and benefit from the many opportunities being part of our community brings, including through events, networking and volunteering.
Follow us on social media!
Avenue is live!
Our quaterly alumni Magazine is the best way to keep up with what's happening with your #TeamUofG community.
Find out about forthcoming events for alumni and friends of the University, including reunions and fundraising events.
Find out how you can support the University of Glasgow.
Avenue Magazine for alumni and friends

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/connect/businessandinnovation:
Innovation Licensing Opportunities: Technologies available for licensing
Collaborate with us
We actively support entrepreneurs and academic staff in the creation of new ventures
We work with partners in the KTP programme to help business grow and innovate
We can connect you with our students and support your recruitment needs
Host your event at our historic campus
All the details you need to get in touch with someone who can help

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/connect/contact:
For all enquiries regarding applications, admissions and studying at Glasgow please email the relevant address from the lists below:
Enquire online
To request a prospectus, and for details of our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, please see:
To ask a current student a question, please see:
We have a diverse University community with students and staff from over 140 different countries.
Find out more at:
UCAS provides useful tailored information about university study:
The Centre for Short Courses runs a range of day time and evening part-time courses, including Access to Higher Education
Contact our main University switchboard:
BSL users can contact us via contactSCOTLAND-BSL, the on-line British Sign Language interpreting video relay service.
Assistance for journalists is available:
Our careers service helps to make the links between students, graduates and employers easy and rewarding.
Looking to recruit some of Glasgow's freshest talents?
Want some advice on what career path you should follow?
Please visit:
Our research expertise can help you build a better business.
Find out how:
Our development and alumni office is here to help you stay in touch with the University and your fellow graduates.
We can also keep you informed about ways you can help us to build on our success for future generations of Glasgow students.
Contact:
From conferences to weddings, small seminar rooms through to the Bute Hall, the Conferences & Events team can help you to find the right venue for your event.
Find out more:
The University is committed to providing an excellent educational experience for our students and high quality services to all other service users of the University.
See:
Comments or enquiries about our website should be directed to webteam@gla.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/scholarships:
That is why we have allocated over £15 million in international scholarships.
Our World Changers Glasgow Scholarships recognise academic excellence and aim to support international students to join Team UofG.
In response to the current economic climate, the University is offering a 20% discount on Postgraduate Research and full Postgraduate Taught Masters programmes to its alumni community.
Find out more.
We offer a wide range of scholarships and bursaries to incoming students, ordinarily resident in Scotland, who may face financial difficulties.
We offer a range of RUK bursaries and scholarships to students from England, Wales and Northern Ireland, undertaking their first undergraduate degree.
Find out more about the postgraduate loans available to help fund your Masters study
Find out more about Finanical Aid and funding for current students.
Find out more about undergraduate tuition fees and student finance.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/beacons:
The Glasgow Research Beacons are crossdisciplinary areas of research excellence which have attracted major financial and intellectual investment.
They bring together inspiring researchers from across the University who are working with other institutions, funders, practitioners, policymakers and charities to address grand challenges that have impact on both a national and international scale.
Glasgow is a place that inspires ambitious people to succeed.
A place where inquiring minds can develop their ideas.
A place where people make discoveries that change the world.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/meetglasgow:
Adam Smith laid the foundations of modern economics.
James Watt gave power to the industrial revolution.
Ian Donald showed us the first ultrasound image of a foetus.
Jocelyn Bell Burnell discovered radio pulsars.
Today, our inspiring people continue to change the world for the better.
Our six crossdisciplinary areas of world-class research are shining examples of what we do best at Glasgow, each one combining a drive for pushing the boundaries of knowledge with a commitment to making a positive impact on the world:
Changing the world is not only about making discoveries and creating new technologies.
Informed leaders, creative thinkers and bold business minds have honed their skills at Glasgow.
The talents of some of the UK’s most influential political figures have been nurtured here.
Award-winning writers have developed their craft.
Human rights activists have gained their voice.
We are a place where the synergy between our research and teaching inspires ambitious people to succeed.
A place where talented people are given the space to realise their dreams.
Most importantly, we are open to the world.
Our doors are open to the brightest minds, regardless of background, who wish to study at university.
We are open to collaboration and the exchange of knowledge with other universities, government and business.
To continue to be a world-class and progressive university, we are dedicated to bringing inspiring people together to change the world.
OUR PEOPLE HAVE ALWAYS BEEN AT THE FOREFRONT OF INNOVATION
1451 The UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW is established
1776 ADAM SMITH publishes The Wealth of Nations
1837 JAMES MCCUNE SMITH becomes the first African American to be awarded a medical degree
1848 LORD KELVIN proposes an absolute scale of temperature
1894 MARION GILCHRIST is the first woman in Scotland to graduate in medicine
1896 JOHN MACINTYRE opens the world’s first X-ray department
1913 Nobel prizewinner FREDERICK SODDY discovers isotopes
1926 JOHN LOGIE BAIRD invents television
1958 IAN DONALD shows us the first ultrasound image of a foetus
1967 JOCELYN BELL BURNELL discovers radio pulsars
1974 GRAHAM TEASDALE and BRYAN JENNETT create the Glasgow Coma Scale
2004 EDWIN MORGAN becomes Scotland’s first National Poet
2015 SHEILA ROWAN leads the Glasgow team that first detected gravitational waves
2021 DAVID MACMILLAN receives the Nobel Prize in Chemistry
Glasgow is a place where inquiring minds can develop their ideas.
Our researchers show curiosity, openness, a strong social commitment and a willingness to challenge the status quo.
Our six crossdisciplinary areas of research illustrate the breadth and depth of our expertise, our ability to work together to address global goals and our commitment to deliver economic and societal change, both locally and internationally.
We work together to understand and address the processes that generate inequalities and their profound effects on individuals, communities and populations across the world.
Our research has impacts on all aspects of creativity, cultural life and the creative economy: cultural institutions, film and television industries, cultural policy, performance, creative writing and art history.
Future life integrates groups from complex chemical systems, biomaterials and stem cell engineering, neuroscience, psychology and medical technologies that are working together to improve our world.
Glasgow is an international centre of excellence in quantum and nanoscience, translating  our fundamental understanding of these phenomena into world-changing technologies.
As an international leader in One Health research, we seek  to improve human and animal health by addressing questions that arise as a result of the many and diverse interdependencies between these two domains.
We are a global centre of excellence for chronic disease, precision medicine and imaging.
Our investment in infrastructure and biomedical researchers drives international research excellence, patient and economic benefits.
'Spotlight on Research' focuses on our world-changing researchers and their fantastic work at the University of Glasgow.
The series showcases how researchers at different stages in their career contribute to the University’s mission to transform lives through ideas and action.
OUR DISCOVERIES, KNOWLEDGE AND PARTNERSHIPS ARE PROVIDING INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS AND CHANGING THE WORLD
Through our innovations we are growing economies, tackling inequalities and improving the health and wellbeing of citizens to create sustainable futures for our communities.
Our central role in the local ecosystem anchors glasgow as a place where innovation can flourish.
We are transforming the treatment of chronic diseases.
Our collaboration with Eli Lilly & Company is discovering the next generation of drug targets for immunological diseases to improve patient quality of life.
In partnership with Roche, our Glasgow Biomarker Centre is enhancing treatment options for the estimated 64 million people living with heart failure worldwide.
QuantIC, the UK Quantum Technology Hub in Quantum Enhanced Imaging led by the University, is central to industrially led collaborative projects aimed at revolutionising imaging across industrial and consumer markets.
We are partnering with a network of UK heritage organisations to explore community-generated digital content about the past and create a shared national collection that is searchable by anyone, anywhere in the world.
Following market success with its semiconductor design software, University spin-out Gold Standard Simulations Ltd was acquired by multinational, market-leader Synopsys Inc.
establishing Synopsys’ Glasgow-based R&D Centre which continues to work with the University.
Based on University research, SOLASTA Bio Ltd has developed the world’s first technology platform for creating novel green insecticides for use in the global agricultural industry in an environmentally and sustainable manner.
The University’s thriving community of student founded start-up businesses includes SENSECity Studios, which specialises in augmented and mixed reality experiences for culture and heritage tourism industries.
The Glasgow Riverside Innovation District (GRID) is an ambitious partnership between the University, Scottish Enterprise, Glasgow City Council and the local community of Govan.
GRID is creating opportunity and lasting benefit for all by stimulating economic growth, creating jobs, attracting inward investment and improving the wellbeing of citizens.
Within GRID, the University is creating a precision medicine living laboratory including a purpose-built Health Innovation Hub which will create 450 new employment opportunities in Govan.
The GALLANT programme, led by our Centre for Sustainable Solutions, is partnering with local leadership, industry, and community groups and organisations to create a series of urban transformation projects in support of Glasgow’s ambition to reach net zero by 2030.
WE ARE CONTINUING OUR TRADITION OF WORLD-CHANGING SCHOLARSHIP BY WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH OTHERS ACROSS THE GLOBE
The University has often been the starting point for significant journeys of discovery and collaboration.
For over five centuries we’ve inspired people who have gone on to shape other great educational institutions around the world, and we maintain strong relationships with many of these institutions to this day.
Through our strategic university partnerships, research collaborations, joint degrees, and student exchange and study abroad programmes, we are creating the opportunity for the sharing of knowledge and new ways of learning.
Key partnerships with institutions all over the world such as the University of Sydney, the University of Hong Kong, McGill University, the University of the West Indies, and Radboud University bring our inspiring people together, while partnerships with the Singapore Institute of Technology, Nankai University and the University of Electronic Science & Technology of China (UESTC) mean that we continue to extend our global footprint through innovative transnational education.
We currently have 420 study abroad and exchange partners.
Our students are more internationally mobile than ever before, while we work hard to internationalise the experience of gaining a Glasgow degree for all of our students.
We are proud to be founding members of university networks Universitas 21 and The Guild of European Research Intensive Universities, which are growing our international reputation and reach and providing a platform for engaging in new collaborations and influencing sector-wide policy.
We are also a part of CIVIS, a European University Alliance for civic universities in Europe, under the European Commission's flagship European Universities Initiative.
The best institutions in the world are those that are deemed truly global, and we are proud to be one of them.
Expect more inspiring discoveries and innovations as we continue to expand our international connections and impact.
WE HAVE DELIVERED ONE OF THE MOST SIGNIFICANT EXPANSIONS OF A UK UNIVERSITY CITY CAMPUS FOR OVER A CENTURY
Over the last decade, the University of Glasgow has invested in its estate to expand its world-class campus and facilities.
An area covering 14 acres of land next to our magnificent Gilmorehill campus has been redeveloped to build a mix of modern research, teaching and public spaces.
Our new buildings will mean the University remains a centre for world-changing research, as well as a vibrant community hub and centre for public engagement.
The development will transform our teaching, learning and research spaces.
It will allow us to bring together the best minds of today and tomorrow within world-class interdisciplinary research spaces that offer flexibility and stimulate collaboration, and modern study spaces that will combine study and social learning space with technology-enabled teaching.
The James McCune Smith Learning Hub is an inspirational and diverse learning space.
The flagship building was the first to be completed as part of our campus development.
It provides a creative environment, combining flexible study and social learning space with multi-styled and technology-enabled teaching.
It can accommodate more than 2,500 students, and includes a lecture theatre with capacity for 500 students.
The ARC brings more than 500 world-leading researchers from a range of disciplines together in a building specifically designed to break down organisational structures and facilitate collaboration and interdisciplinary work.
The ARC is the creative and collaborative heart of research at the University of Glasgow, bridging the boundaries between research, cross-subject collaboration and true societal impact.
The Clarice Pears Building is the new home of our School of Health & Wellbeing.
The school’s focus is to reduce health inequalities and promote wellbeing for all.
Researchers have come together from a wide range of disciplines including public health, medicine, epidemiology, psychology and health data science.
In collaboration and separately, they aim to address some of the greatest health challenges facing the world today.
The Adam Smith Business School will relocate to a modern, purpose built facility on the Western site, which will have more space for PGT growth, research and teaching.
WE DEVELOP AND SUPPORT OUR STUDENTS SO THAT THEY FULFIL THEIR POTENTIAL AND CONTRIBUTE IN THE FULLEST WAY TO CULTURE, SOCIETY AND THE LOCAL AND GLOBAL ECONOMY THROUGHOUT THEIR LIVES
We create an inclusive environment where students develop meaningful relationships with one another and with staff and, through those encounters, create new knowledge, challenge received wisdom, build inter-cultural and leadership capabilities, and develop disciplinary excellence and an appetite for lifelong learning and enquiry.
Rapid and seismic impacts on societies and economies around the world from the Coronavirus pandemic, combined with the fast pace of change resulting from the effect of technology, require flexible and adaptable graduates who can integrate knowledge across disciplines to bring creative solutions to complex world problems.
Our learning and teaching is shaped by the values, creativity, ambition and commitment of students and staff, needed to support them to thrive in a rapidly shifting, internationally competitive higher education sector.
THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW WAS FOUNDED FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE CITY AND ITS PEOPLE
Our staff and students are engaged in strong, enduring research and community partnerships to improve health, boost the economy, build a better future and celebrate the achievements of those living in Glasgow .
The University is a key player in the city’s ambitious plans for the regeneration of the River Clyde and in the development of a Glasgow Riverside Innovation District (GRID), which is helping to transform some of the most deprived areas in Scotland.
Our researchers are helping the city move towards climate resilience while tackling health, social and economic inequalities by working in partnership with Glasgow City Council on a £10.2 million research programme.
Volunteering is a vital part of the University of Glasgow’s culture.
We have built partnerships with more than 50 social enterprises, charities, community projects and public bodies across Glasgow and beyond.
Our vet students run a monthly drop-in service to provide care to homeless dogs in Glasgow.
The clinics operate out of homeless centres and drop-in facilities so that owners can get support for themselves too.
A group of Glasgow dental students has established five oral health clinics in foodbanks throughout Glasgow.
As well as providing those in lower income households with free dental supplies and advice, the group also encourages people to register with a dentist.
Our Into University learning centres have opened in the heart of some of Scotland’s most disadvantaged communities as a practical response to the poverty and educational limitations that can impact the lives of young people growing up there.
AT GLASGOW, WE’RE TAKING SUSTAINABILITY SERIOUSLY, AND WE’VE BEEN RECOGNISED FOR OUR EFFORTS
We are highly ranked for our contribution to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
And in the world top 20 for both the QS Sustainability Rankings and the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings.
By aligning our activities closely with the SDGs, we can help tackle the most pressing global challenges facing humanity and the natural world.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/accessibility:
The University strives to make all our campuses accessible to all users.
We understand the importance of enabling access to accurate, practical information on the accessibility of our physical estate but recognise users may encounter limitations around our main Gilmorehill campus, due to the historic hilltop location.
We’re committed to embracing diversity and difference and treating our colleagues, students, partners and others with respect.
We want our campuses to be inviting, secure and comfortable environments for all.
We recognise that increasing opportunities for anyone who wants to engage with our campus community and facilities is a benefit to everyone.
The University has developed an app (available as a desktop version and as a mobile app for students) to provide you with directions from one building to another and covers buildings on all three of our campuses.
You can also get directions to particular rooms and it's linked to AccessAble's website so you can get information on building access.
Get it now at: www.glasgow.ac.uk/apps The desktop version is available at www.glasgow.ac.uk/locations
You can also use the University's interactive Gilmorehill campus map .
This can give you directions from one building to another, like the Room Finder app, but also allows you to add in features you might be looking for - such as public toilets or disabled parking bays - and even allows you to view locations of rooms on particular levels for specific key buildings.
In addition, the Maps and Travel page also has information about our Garscube and Dumfries campuses.
AccessAble provide an online description of the physical access features of over 100 university services and buildings across all three of our campuses, including:
British Sign Language (BSL) users can contact us direct by using Contact Scotland BSL
Mobility Scooters are available for loan on a daily basis for staff and students who have difficulty moving between locations on campus.
Please contact the Disability Service directly for further details.
A limited number of transit wheelchairs are available for visitors from the Main Gatehouse, Hunterian Museum and Hunterian Art Gallery and the Hunterian at the Kelvin Hall.
To check availability please contact the individual areas before arriving:
Email estates-servicedesk@glasgow.ac.uk , to report an accessibility related issue with the physical environment on any of our campuses.
Please use the subject line: 'Priority Accessibility & your location'.
This will ensure that your request is treated with utmost importance by our team.
Alternatively, you may call the Estates Service Desk on 0141 330 6000.
Digital accessibility regulations known as The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 came into force on September 2018.
This regulation implements the EU directive on the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies into UK law.
To address the requirements of the regulations the University has developed our own Digital Accessibility webpages which include guidance for both staff and students.
This guidance will continue to be revised as new technology and best practice emerge.
The University's website has been designed to be as accessible as possible and we welcome feedback on suggestions for improvements.
If you have any problems, please mail webteam@gla.ac.uk
Our website design employs XHTML and CSS.
We follow best practice guidelines, such as the W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines and PAS 78 (British Standards Institute guidance on website accessibility).
All navigation and content text used on our website can be increased or decreased in size.
Please see the BBC's My Web My Way (accessibility features of browsers and operating systems) for assistance.
Further information is available from our Equality and Diversity Unit and Disability Service .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/events:
Visit our beautiful campus and find out more about your future at Glasgow
Open Days, visits, and virtual events
Everything you need to know about graduation ceremonies at Glasgow
Lord Kelvin is one of the most prominent figures in the University’s history, having held the chair of Natural Philosophy for 53 years, and his influence is still felt through the inventions, innovation and inspiration which shaped the world in which we live.
Host an event, conference or wedding reception at the University of Glasgow or reserve accommodation in our own Residences

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/connect/publicengagement:
Today, we remain committed to helping Glasgow to flourish, but we are also looking beyond the local area to engage a broader global community in our work.
By engaging the public in a two-way conversation, we provide unique insight to our work, highlight the human story behind research endeavour and build public trust in the value of what we do.
From festivals to science-themed comic books and creative arts, find out about the diversity of public and community engagement projects happening at Glasgow.
Public engagement resources for staff
Get in touch about public & community engagement at Glasgow
Find out about upcoming University of Glasgow events

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/connect/complaints:
The University has a duty to maintain and enhance the quality of its provision and to provide an effective system for handling complaints.
The University has a Complaints Handling Procedure which allows complainants to raise matters of concern without fear of disadvantage and in the knowledge that privacy and confidentiality will be respected.
We value complaints and use information from them to help us improve our services.
Some matters cannot be handled under the Complaints Procedure (e.g.
a challenge to an academic decision should be raised as an academic appeal not a complaint).
For more information, see ' Which procedure should I use?
'
Complaints will be recorded, along with any action taken.
Find information about complaints handled by the University .
Anyone who has followed the University’s Complaints Procedure and remains dissatisfied with the University’s final response may seek Independent External Review of their complaint by contacting the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman .
We value complaints and use information from them to help us improve our services .
The University of Glasgow is committed to providing an excellent education and high-quality services to our students from admission to graduation.
We also aim to provide high-quality services to all other stakeholders and to maintain good relations with the local community.
This procedure operates in accordance with the University’s Equality & Diversity Policy which requires that complainants will be treated fairly and consistently without discrimination.
Students should be aware that the Complaints Handling Procedure is not the only means of raising concerns with the University.
For instance, concerns about the quality or organisation of programmes of study might most effectively be referred in the first instance to the appropriate Staff/Student Committee through the Class/Year Representative or the Students' Representative Council (SRC) representative for the relevant area.
Students can also discuss matters informally with the Head of School, Head of the Administrative Department or Support Service, an Adviser of Studies, Supervisor, Course Co-ordinator, College Administrator or other member of staff without invoking the Complaints Handling Procedure.
Complaints Handling Procedure
If you would like to speak to a member of the team, please email: complaints@glasgow.ac.uk and we can arrange to speak to you.
The Complaints Resolution Office's telephone number is: 0141 330 6244
[The Procedure can be provided in alternative formats - please contact complaints@glasgow.ac.uk if you require assistance.]
If something goes wrong or you are dissatisfied with our services, please tell us.
This document describes our complaints procedure and how to make a complaint.
It also tells you about how we will handle your complaint and what you can expect from us.
We regard a complaint as any expression of dissatisfaction about our action or lack of action, or about the standard of service provided by us or on our behalf.
You can complain about things like:
Your complaint may involve more than one University of Glasgow School or s ervice or be about someone working on our behalf.
There are some things we can’t deal with through our complaints handling procedure.
These include:
If other procedures or rights of appeal can help you resolve your concerns, we will give information and advice to help you.
Anyone who receives, requests or is directly affected by our services can make a complaint to us.
This includes the representative of someone who is dissatisfied with our service (for example, a relative, friend, advocate or adviser).
If you are making a complaint on someone else’s behalf, you will normally need their written consent.
Please also read the section on Getting help to make your complaint below.
You can complain in person to our office, by phone, in writing, by email, or via our Complaint Form .
It is easier for us to resolve complaints if you make them quickly and directly to the service concerned.
Where possible, your concerns should be raised with the relevant staff member, tutor, university representative or school office.
Then they can try to address the issue.
When complaining, please tell us:
Normally, you must make your complaint within six months of:
In some circumstances, we may be able to accept a complaint after the time limit.
If you feel that the time limit should not apply to your complaint, please tell us why.
We will apply these time limits with discretion, considering the seriousness of the issue, the availability of relevant records and staff involved, how long ago the events occurred, and the likelihood that an investigation will lead to a practical benefit for the complainant or useful learning for the institution.
We will always tell you who is dealing with your complaint.
Our complaints procedure has two stages.
Stage 1: Frontline response
We aim to respond to complaints quickly (where possible, when you first tell us about the issue).
This could mean an on-the-spot apology and explanation if something has clearly gone wrong, or immediate action to resolve the problem.
We will give you our decision at stage 1 in five working days or less, unless there are exceptional circumstances.
If you are not satisfied with the response we give at this stage, we will tell you what you can do next.
If you choose to, you can take your complaint to stage 2.
You must normally ask us to consider your complaint at stage 2 either:
In exceptional circumstances, we may be able to accept a stage 2 complaint after the time limit.
Stage 2: Investigation
Stage 2 deals with two types of complaint: those where the complainant remains dissatisfied after stage 1 and those that clearly require investigation, and so are handled directly at this stage.
When using stage 2:
If our investigation will take longer than 20 working days, we will tell you.
We will tell you our revised time limits and keep you updated on progress.
After we have given you our final decision, if you are still dissatisfied with our decision or the way we dealt with your complaint, you can ask the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman (SPSO) to look at it.
The SPSO are an independent organisation that investigates complaints.
They are not an advocacy or support service (but there are other organisations who can help you with advocacy or support).
You can ask the SPSO to look at your complaint if:
The SPSO will ask you to complete a complaint form and provide a copy of our final response to your complaint.
You can do this online at www.spso.org.uk/complain/form or call them on Freephone 0800 377 7330.
You may wish to get independent support or advocacy to help you progress your complaint.
See the section on Getting help to make your complaint below.
The SPSO’s contact details are:
SPSO Bridgeside House 99 McDonald Road Edinburgh EH7 4NS (if you would like to visit in person, you must make an appointment first)
Their freepost address is:
FREEPOST SPSO
Freephone: 0800 377 7330 Online contact: www.spso.org.uk/contact-us Website: www.spso.org.uk
We understand that you may be unable or reluctant to make a complaint yourself.
We accept complaints from the representative of a person who is dissatisfied with our service.
We can take complaints from a friend, relative, or an advocate, if you have given them your consent to complain for you.
In order for us to accept a complaint from someone acting on your behalf, you must confirm the name of the person you are consenting to making the complaint for you and confirm that you are aware they may be given full detail on any matters we consider relevant to the complaint, as part of our response.
We will not fully communicate with anyone making a complaint on behalf of someone else until we are satisfied we have an appropriate level of consent from the person they are making the complaint on behalf of.
Useful contact details:
There are a variety of support services available to students:
There are a number of support services available which can provide helpful support to those who wish to pursue a complaint with the University.
We are committed to making our service easy to use for all members of the community.
In line with our statutory equalities duties, we will always ensure that reasonable adjustments are made to help you access and use our services.
If you have trouble putting your complaint in writing, or want this information in another language or format, such as large font, or Braille, please contact us.
Please contact us by the following means:
Website: https://www.gla.ac.uk/connect/complaints/

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/legal/accessibility:
This statement covers information published at www.gla.ac.uk.
This website is run by the University of Glasgow.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also tried to make the website text as simple to understand as possible.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website aren’t fully accessible: for example:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We’ll consider your request and try get back to you within 10 days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems that aren’t listed on this page or think we’re not meeting the requirements of the accessibility regulations, contact: webteam@glasgow.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the accessibility regulations.
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
If you are visiting in person, see our information about Physical accessibility .
The University of Glasgow is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
Some link text doesn’t make sense when read on its own (for example, ‘click here’).
We use a quality assurance application to identify these links and inform content editors of the requirement to change these.
There will be occassions, however, when these changes have not yet been made.
We will monitor and correct such links on an ongoing basis.
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents don’t meet accessibility standards: for example, they may not be marked up so they’re accessible to a screen reader.
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
We plan to either fix these or replace them with accessible HTML pages.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We are currently auditing PDFs and other documents and working with our publishers to make these accessible or to remove them from the site.
Some images don’t have appropriate alternative text.
We use a quality assurance application to identify these images and inform content editors of the requirement to change these.
There will be occasions, however, when these changes have not yet been made.
Some legacy video content doesn't have captions.
Live video streams don’t have captions.
We don’t as yet plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
BSL users can contact us via contactSCOTLAND-BSL, the on-line British Sign Language interpreting video relay service.
This website is tested weekly using a quality assurance tool, SiteImprove, to identify accessibility issues.
We tested:
The University of Glasgow's website consists of many related sub-sites: such as our student record system, our Human Resources system and our helpdesk application.
Accessibility statements for such sub-sites will be found locally for each of these.
This statement was prepared on 17 September 2019.
It was last reviewed on 20 February 2025.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/foi:
ICO registration no: Z6723578
Make a request for information
Guidance on what to do when working with personal data and guidance for SIROs
Moodle training courses for staff and students
Report a personal data breach
Access the University's Data Protection compliance repository
View the University's information compliance policies

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/legal/freedomofinformation/foipublicationscheme:
The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (FOISA) requires that all Scottish public authorities make certain types of information routinely available, and provide a guide to information telling the public how to access the information and what it might cost.
This Guide to Information also contains details of the environmental information that we routinely make available under the Environmental Information (Scotland) Regulations 2004 (the EI(S)Rs).
The University of Glasgow has adopted the Model Publication Scheme produced by the Scottish Information Commissioner, who is responsible for enforcing FOISA.
This scheme was approved in 2013 and updated in November 2018.
You can see this scheme on the Commissioner’s website at http://www.itspublicknowledge.info/ScottishPublicAuthorities/PublicationSchemes/PublicationSchemeResources.aspx or by contacting us at the address below.
We have made a commitment to publish all information which we hold which falls within the classes of information in the scheme.
This Guide to Information describes the information which we publish in accordance with the scheme, and how you can access this information.
We are obliged by FOISA to have due regard to the public interest in providing access to the information that we hold which relates to:
This Guide to Information is based on work by the Scottish Higher Education Information Practitioners Group, under the auspices of Universities Scotland's Secretaries’ Group.
SHEIP consulted the public authorities to be covered by the Guide, to assess what information should be included in the Guide, taking account of reviews of information requests, and assessments of previous publication scheme feedback.
The Model Publication Scheme imposes 6 Principles which govern the way we make information available through our Guide to Information.
More information about each of these principles is set out below.
Our Guide to Information provides more details of the information available under the scheme, along with additional guidance on how the information falling within each “class” may be accessed.
Our aim in maintaining this Guide is to be as open as possible.
All information covered by the publication scheme can either be accessed through our website, or will be provided promptly following our receipt of your request.
If a document contains information that the University may legitimately wish to exempt from disclosure under an appropriate section of Scotland’s freedom of information laws, (for example sensitive personal information or a trade secret), we may remove or redact the information before publication but we will inform you that we have done so and provide an explanation of why the information is withheld.
The Scottish Information Commissioner's guidance on information that may be exempt from publication is available here:
http://www.itspublicknowledge.info/Law/FOISA-EIRsGuidance/Briefings.asp#exemptions
If you wish to complain about any information which has been withheld from you, please refer to Principal 5: Advice and Assistance .
All documents held on the University server remain the property of the University of Glasgow.
For information where the University owns the copyright, information obtained from this Publication Scheme can be copied or reproduced without formal permission provided it is copied or reproduced accurately, for personal use, is not used in a misleading context and provided that the source of the material is identified and the copyright status acknowledged.
Should a third party own the copyright, the University recommends that the third party's consent is sought prior to any copying being carried out.
The publication scheme may, however, contain information where the copyright holder is not the University of Glasgow.
In most cases the copyright holder will be obvious from the documents.
In cases where the copyright is unclear, however, it is the responsibility of the person accessing the information to locate and seek the permission of the copyright holder before reproducing the material or in any other way breaching the rights of the copyright holder.
Wherever possible, this scheme will indicate where we do not own the copyright on documents within Section 12 – Classes of Information.
Information about Crown copyright material is available on the website of the Queen's Printer for Scotland at www.oqps.gov.uk .
We can provide you with a copy of this information if you do not have internet access.
Wherever possible, information contained within our Guide is available from us free of charge where it can be downloaded from our website or where it can be sent to you electronically by email.
We reserve the right to impose charges for providing information in paper copy or on computer disc.
Charges will reflect the actual costs of reproduction and postage to the authority, as set out below.
If you request information for which there is a charge, we will inform you and explain how it has been calculated.
Information will not be provided to you until payment has been received.
How to access information not available under this scheme
If the information you are seeking is not available under this publication scheme, then you may wish to request it from us.
Details of how to make an information request are available at http://www.gla.ac.uk/services/dpfoioffice/contact/
Contact us
You can contact us for assistance with any aspect of this guide to information.
We will be pleased to hear your comments and suggestions, work to resolve any complaints, or advise you on how to ask for information that we do not routinely publish.
Data Protection & Freedom of Information Office University of Glasgow University Avenue Glasgow G12 8QQ
foi@gla.ac.uk
Where we publish information on a regular basis (for example, financial statements and minutes of meetings of University Court), we make that information available for at least the current and two previous financial or academic years.
In most other cases, where information is updated or superseded, we make only the current version available.
If you are looking for older information, or previous versions of documents, then you may wish to request it from us.
See Principle 5: Advice and Assistance .
Guide to Information
Model Publication Scheme Class
1 General Information
This category covers general information about how to make contact with the institution.
It includes information about how to complain about the institution, and how to serve formal documents on it.
It is aimed at providing very general information for the public.
More detailed information will be provided in other categories.
Class 1: About the Authority
2 Access to Information and Records Management Policies
This category tells people how to request information from the institution, both under the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act and Data Protection legislation.
It also covers institutional procedures for these pieces of legislation.
Class 5: How we manage our human, physical and information resources
3 Governance
This category covers information relating to the way the institution is governed and how decisions are made.
It includes information on the legal status of the institution, which individual member of staff or group within the organisation is responsible for specific functions and where they fit in the overall structure of the organisation.
Class 3: How we take decisions and what we have decided
4 Financial Resources
This category covers information on the institution’s strategy and management of financial resources.
The finance department provides accounting, procurement and contracting services, helping to make best use of resources and fulfilling statutory responsibilities.
Class 4: What we spend and how we spend it
5 Corporate Planning
This category provides information on the institution's mission and major strategic plans.
Class 7: How we are performing
6 Procurement
Collaborative procurements may be led by central bodies such as Procurement Scotland, APUC Limited, Excel, NHS National Procurement or Central Government Procurement Centre of Expertise.
Information about the procurement services these organisations provide to the institution may be obtained direct from the organisations.
Class 6: How we procure goods and services from external providers
7 Management of Research
This category covers information relating to the institution’s management and funding of its research activities; it does not include the actual results or data of research undertaken.
Class 2: How we deliver our functions and services
8 Commercialisation and Knowledge Transfer
This category provides information about the institution's mechanisms for supporting the commercialisation of outputs from its research activities.
9 Human Resources
This category covers information on the institution’s strategy and management of human resources, rather than information relating to individual members of staff (exempt from disclosure as personal information).
The information available covers Personnel policies and procedures (including terms and conditions of service and all current versions of the information specified in each category).
10 Physical Resources
Institutions are often substantial land and property owners in their own right.
This category covers information at a strategic level relating to the institution’s management of its physical resources.
Some of this information is required to be published under the Environmental Information (Scotland) Regulations 2004.
11 Health and Safety
This category covers information about the institution's health and safety policies, risk assessment policies, procedures and record.
12 Equality and Diversity
This category provides information about the institution’s policies and strategies regarding equality and diversity.
13 Support for Disabled People
This category provides information about the institution's policies, procedures, and support for disabled people, including information about accessibility of major buildings and services.
14 Student Administration & Support
This category contains information on how the institution manages the administration and progression of their students from admission to course completion, including student support services.
15 Teaching Quality
This category contains information regarding the management of teaching quality in the institution including mechanisms for reviewing and ensuring the quality of teaching provided.
16 Information Services
This category covers those functions within the institution that provide access to information for the student body and both academic and administrative staff.
These include libraries, computing services, archive services, and information support services.
Such functions may be managed separately from each other, or in various combinations.
These services routinely explain their facilities (and the conditions of their use) to students, staff and the general public and it is information of this nature that is included within this category.
17 External and Community Relations
This category covers information relating to the institution’s relationship with its external environment.
These include how it manages its relationship with the local community and how it retains contact with its former staff and students.
By virtue of its nature, most institutions will probably find that the majority of these categories are already made available to the public by some means.
18 Government and Regulator Relations
This category covers information the institution provides to government and external regulators and information provided to the Scottish Funding Council for monitoring purposes.
By virtue of its nature most institutions will probably find that the majority of these categories are already made available to the public by some means.
Members of the public are also likely to find the same or related information is available from the external partners the institution has links with.
19 Open Data
This category covers datasets the University makes available to provide information and accountability to stakeholders, and to support the University’s aims to meet the Research Excellence Framework’s open access requirements.
Class 9: Open Data
1 General Information ‌ [pdf]
Any official documents to be served on the institution should be sent to the Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary at the following address: Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary, University Court Office, University of Glasgow, Glasgow Scotland G12 8QQ
2 Access to Information and Records Management Policies ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
3 Governance ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
4 Financial Resources ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
5 Corporate Planning ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
6 Procurement ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
7 Management of Research ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
8 Commercialisation and Knowledge Transfer ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
9 Human Resources ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
10 Physical Resources ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
Safety and Environmental Policies Waste Minimisation and Recycling Policy ‌
Carbon Management Plan
Sustainability [for students & staff]
11 Health and Safety ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
12 Equality and Diversity ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
13 Support for Disabled People ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
14 Student Administration & Support ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
External Relations
Widening Participation How to apply for a Postgraduate Taught Degree How to apply for a Postgraduate Research Degree How to apply to an Undergraduate degree programme University Calendar
1: Required only in cases where the institution has any legal responsibility or liability for ensuring that Students Unions (and similar Associations and organisations) are properly run.
[2]
15 Teaching Quality ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
[1]Information which institutions are required to make available by their Funding Council or by a regulatory body is information included in the ‘Government and Regulator Relations’ category (18).]
16 Information Services ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
17 External and Community Relations ‌‌ ‌ [pdf]
18 Government and Regulator Relations [pdf]
This category tells people about open data made available by the institution as described by the Scottish Government’s Open Data Resource Pack and available under an open licence.
19 Open Data ‌ [pdf]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/legal/modernslaveryact:
The University of Glasgow has a zero-tolerance approach to slavery and human trafficking in all its forms.
This statement is made in pursuant to Section 54, Part 6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
This statement aims to inform the University of Court University of Glasgow, our staff, students and the general public about the steps taken during the last financial year, ending 31 July 2024 in support of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The University is committed to ensuring and actively monitoring that modern slavery, human trafficking and child labour are not taking place in any parts of its operations or its Supply Chain.
We can confirm that there have been no known reported modern slavery cases in our direct area of influence, within this financial year.
The University is the fourth oldest University in the English-speaking world.
Founded in 1451, it has earned an international reputation for research innovation, for connecting with experts in global business, and for being the home of inspiring thinkers, including the father of economics, Adam Smith, to the eminent scientist, Lord Kelvin.
In keeping with its historic legacy of changing the world, the University is a founding member of the elite Russell Group of 24 major UK research universities.
Study and research are grouped into four Colleges:
The majority of operations are carried out on the University’s Gilmorehill campus in the West End of Glasgow.
Finding community and strength within diversity, the University attracts students and academics from more than 150 countries around the globe.
In addition, as a venue for international conferences and a hub of cultural interest, the University is also a major contributor to the cultural and commercial life of the country.
The strategy responds to four major challenges facing higher education and wider society:
The University’s vision is to be The World-Changing University.
Our purpose is transforming lives through ideas and actions.
Our mission is to bring a community of world changers together.
The future holds innumerable challenges for our sector, our society and our world and we will have to adapt and change what we do and what we offer if we are to navigate these successfully.
Our strategy and approach may evolve as the landscape changes, but our values will remain constant:
The strategy supports the long-term realisation of our vision by recognising the fundamental importance of a culture of open cooperation and is articulated across three themes:
Key to the realisation of our vision is our continuing success within the six strategic pillars of a world-changing University:
The strategy outlines a route to net-zero carbon emissions for the organisation, by 2030.
The University is committed not only to addressing its impacts on the environment, but also its impacts on people, communities and markets.
As such, we have a well-developed approach to sustainable procurement.
We are fully cognisant of our responsibilities under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Our Climate Change strategy commits us to use of the Ecovadis system for monitoring sustainability-related risks and driving improvements in our supply chain.
We believe that use of Ecovadis helps us to ensure that modern slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any parts of our operation, either within the University or our Supply Chain.
Further information on how our procurement processes support our commitments under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 can be found below.
The University non-pay expenditure for FY22/23 was circa £367m, with £265m based on Core Trade spend.
We have identified 8 high risk category areas across circa 200 Suppliers that provide Goods, Services or Works.
The University Court is committed to socially responsible investment.
It does so by setting policy and via its Investment Advisory Committee (IAC) and its fund managers.
IAC will require managers who undertake active investment on its behalf to properly consider Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) issues in their investment decisions.
IAC will also require all managers to monitor the activities of companies with regard to ESG and to have a policy of engaging with companies on these issues to encourage positive changes.
It is the role of the University Court to set out the ethical platform on which the University’s asset investments are managed.
The University’s approach is set out in the Policy on Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) – July 2021 which was approved by Court in October 2009 and updated in both 2018 and 2021.
Court requires its investment managers to commit to socially responsible investment within their investment policies.
The University also prohibits direct investment in the tobacco industry and in controversial armaments and, since 2014.
In 2015, Court committed to a phased reduction in the University’s direct investment in the fossil fuel extraction industry and has in fact already achieved that goal.
Appointed by Senior Management Group (SMG), the Gift Acceptance Committee (GAC) ensures that gifts that are solicited and accepted by the University are consistent with our strategy and values and that all donors are treated equally.
The GAC assesses whether they adhere to our Gift Acceptance Policy and the University’s core principles, values and strategic direction, and consider any potential ethical or reputational risk to the University that could arise from accepting a donation.
All single or cumulative gifts of £250,000 or more are taken to GAC for consideration.
The GAC will retain oversight of all gifts under this level and reserves the right to consider any gift to the University regardless of size.
The Human Resources Policies set out workplace rights at the University.
Our Recruitment Policy ensures that rigorous Visa and Immigration procedures are in place to support right to work, skilled workers visa and global talent visa.
All prospective employees or casual workers are required to undertake a Right to Work check confirming working permissions to ensure they have the appropriate right to work for the specific role and hours.
Conducting a Right to Work check consists of documentation checks on every UK based employee and retaining it on their employee file.
The University always adheres to Immigration Rules and UKVI Policy in accordance with Home Office UKVI compliance.
The University is supported by external recruitment agencies on collaborative Framework Agreements who are vetted through rigorous Procurement procedures.
The University of Glasgow is proud to be an Accredited Living Wage employer.
This means:
We have set up our procurement procedures to ensure that we engage with contractors and potential contractors to encourage them, as far as possible, to also pay the Living Wage to people regularly working on our premises.
The University also champions broader fair work practices and has published a jointly agreed Fair Work Statement encapsulating our commitment to a broader range of fair working practices in addition to paying the Living Wage.
The University’s due diligence checks ensure that our Research funders and collaborating partners have an anti-slavery and human trafficking policy or equivalent in place.
They are also required to verify that with regards to their recruitment and staffing procedures that they comply with local labour laws and the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The University’s Procurement Strategy [2024 20 2027] outlines our ethical procurement approach and sets out our principles for the acquisition of Goods, Services and Works.
We commit to procuring all Goods, Services and Works with high ethical standards and applying principles of sustainable procurement.
Sustainable Procurement is a process whereby the University meets its needs for Goods, Services and Works in a way that achieves value for money (VFM) on a whole life cost basis, generating benefit not only to the University, but also with consideration to Social, Economic and Environmental factors.
The University Procurement Office’s role is to provide professional, qualified procurement expertise, advice and services; for all spend with external suppliers; in compliance with the Public Contract (Scotland) 2015 Regulations, the Procurement Reform Act 2014, the Procurement (Scotland) Regulation 2016 and any other Directives.
The Procurement Office has implemented the Advanced Procurement of University and Colleges (APUC) Supply Chain Code of Conduct .
This focuses on the organisations and its Suppliers responsibilities in social, ethical, economic, and environmental areas across the Supply Chain.
The University Procurement Strategy is committed to delivering our Sustainability Objectives, which include identifying modern slavery risks within our Supply Chain.
Procurement has used the sustainability risk prioritisation tool (Marrakech) which assigns a score for each risk attached to a category of spend.
The high-risk categories are then investigated using the DEFRA analysis tool.
Thereafter Suppliers identified within these categories are measured and monitored through the EcoVadis Sustainability Rating Programme.
This policy is a part of the University’s Procurement Policy and Contracts and Supplier Relationship Management (CS&RM) Policy and is incorporated into all procurement and supply chain activities including tendering and contract procedure.
This section details our understanding of the most significant modern slavery risks in the University of Glasgow supply chains and the modern slavery due diligence we have undertaken to identify and mitigate these risks.
Our high-risk category areas of expenditure for FY23/24 were:
The University of Glasgow has selected EcoVadis to simplify collaboration with our external Suppliers in order to assess their sustainability / Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) performance worldwide.
We rely on EcoVadis’ CSR expertise to produce ratings and detailed scorecards that make it easy for the University and the Supplier to understand their CSR performance, and to work together if any improvements are needed.
As an internationally recognised standard, EcoVadis sustainability ratings provide global benchmarks, which are essential for measuring and improving the performance of our global supply chain.
The EcoVadis rating is based on an evidence-based assessment, adapted to hundreds of business categories, takes into account relevant industry labels and certifications as well as local laws in 150 countries, and is aligned with global standards like the UN Global Compact.
The EcoVadis assessment is an evaluation on how well a company has integrated the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility into their business and management system.
It is based on the following founding principles:
EcoVadis has a comprehensive scoring criterion for each Supplier, see figure 1.
Under the labour & Human Rights pillar, assesses the Suppliers compliance to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 statement, see figure 1.
Figure 1
After assessment, EcoVadis provide the Supplier and the University full access to their sustainability rating through their online portal.
This details area of strength and areas on where improvement is required.
The Supplier assessments are reviewed on an annual basis.
Figure 2 is an example of a Suppliers sustainability scorecard.
Figure 2
The University has a non-pay expenditure of c£390m of which is c£280m core trade spend across Goods, Services and Works.
The sustainability risk prioritisation tool (Marrakech) and the DEFRA analysis tool review have identified 7 high risk category areas in relation to Modern Slavery as listed below:
The current expenditure across the 8 high risk categories is c£165m, with 232 Suppliers.
The number of Suppliers that have completed their EcoVadis assessment is 124, with an expenditure of £124.8m.
This results in 75% of the expenditure identified across the 8 high risk categories as having an EcoVadis sustainability rating, see figure 3.
The Procurement Office are continually working with our external Suppliers and EcoVadis and there are a further 20 Suppliers going through this assessment process.
Figure 3
Sustainable Procurement training has been completed by all members of the Procurement team.
All staff and students can improve their awareness, knowledge and understanding through the various Modern Slavery training courses .
CIPS Procurement Excellence Standard Award
The University has held the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS) Certification since 2015 and has recently been revalidated and achieved the Procurement Excellence Standard Award Number 0660 valid until 04/2025.
This is an in-depth assessment process that measures the organisation’s procurement function against world-class standards.
The University is a member of Electronics Watch, which is an independent monitoring organisation that assists public sector buyers to meet their responsibility to protect the labour rights of workers in their global electronics supply chains more effectively and less expensively than any single public sector buyer could accomplish on its own.
This section lists all of the goals and KPIs listed in this statement.
We have set these goals to ensure we make year-on-year progress and established key performance indicators to measure the effectiveness of our efforts to protect workers from exploitation.
Release Date: January 2025 Author: Director of Procurement Approver: David Duncan on behalf of Court Title: Chief Operating Officer and University Secretary

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/legal/termsofuse:
The website: https://www.gla.ac.uk/ (the "website") is owned and controlled by The University of Glasgow, a charitable body registered in Scotland under registration number SC004401, incorporated under the Universities (Scotland) Acts and having its main administrative offices at University Avenue, Glasgow, G12 8QQ (the "University")
These terms of use set out the terms for use of the website and applies to all users of and visitors to the website ('you').
Please read these terms of use carefully before you begin to use the website.
By using the website, you accept these terms of use and agree to abide by them.
Please do not use the website if you do not agree with these terms of use.
Access to the website is on a temporary basis and the University reserves the right to withdraw or amend the service provided to you on the website at any time.
Sections of the website may be restricted to certain users at any time.
You may only use the website for lawful purposes.
You may not use the website:
The content on the website is maintained locally, at departmental and other levels.
The content of the University's main website is overseen by the University’s Web Team, however not all webpages within the main website are controlled centrally.
The content on the website is provided 'as is', and without warranties, representations or undertakings.
The University tries to ensure that the content and information available on the website is accurate at the time of publication but it does not warrant that this is the case.
Nothing on the website constitutes any part of a contract unless otherwise expressly stated.
Any links within the website to third party websites are not checked by the University and the University bears no responsibility for the content of external sites.
If you access external sites through the website, you do so at your own risk.
The University permits its students and staff to maintain personal pages on the website, and associated sites.
Any views expressed on these pages do not necessarily represent the views of the University.
We make no guarantees that the website is free from so called computer viruses.
It is strongly recommended that you check for such viruses before downloading it or its contents
The University accepts no liability for any claims, penalties, loss or expenses arising from your use of the website including: any reliance you might place on the content of the website; use of or inability to use the website; the downloading of any materials from the website; or any unauthorised use or access to the website.
The University is the owner or the licensee of all intellectual property rights contained within this website and in the material published on the website.
All such rights are reserved.
Subject to the limitations detailed below and to the entirety of the website’s terms of use, you may download, view and print material from our website for personal and non-commercial use and for internal non-commercial circulation within your organisation.
Any other use of the website requires prior written consent from the University.
In particular, you may not use any part of the materials on the website for commercial purposes without obtaining our prior written consent.
The University must always be acknowledged as the owners of any such material circulated or used, as must the contributions of any identified person.
You must not modify the paper or digital copies of any materials taken from the website in any way, and you must not use any illustrations, photographs, video or audio sequences or any graphics separately from any accompanying text.
These terms of use shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Scotland and any disputes that may arise will be subject to the jurisdiction of the Scottish courts.
Please contact webteam@gla.ac.uk if you have any enquiries about the website.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students:
MyGlasgow Students
All students, new or returning, must complete both Academic and Financial Registration .
Once you are academically registered, you can enrol on courses and classes.
Enrolment is the process of choosing your courses and classes to build your timetable for the year.
Whether you're a prospective student exploring funding options, a current student seeking guidance on managing finances, or a graduate considering repayment options, the University of Glasgow provides comprehensive support for all aspects of student finance, from tuition fees and student loans, to scholarships and bursaries.
Your campus card is your key to University life.
It gives you access to the Library, sports facilities, student discounts in a wide variety of shops, bars, cinemas and online!
Need support with registration and enrolment?
The Registration and Enrolment Support Team (REST) are here for you.
If you have any questions or concerns REST will guide you through the process.
Student Voice is all the ways in which you can provide the University with feedback as you progress through your university degree.
Find out more about what we're doing to enhance your student experience.
Got a question?
Find help and support on the University of Glasgow Helpdesk.
We can offer you a wide range of support, to assist you with the challenges of the rising cost of living.
We recognise that financial challenges can be a significant worry, which may affect your mental health, ability to study and overall wellbeing.
Find out more about student organisations, studying abroad and more.
Exam timetables, guidance, past papers, exam conduct, mental health and wellbeing support.
Looking to get around campus quickly?
Access campus maps, the roomfinder app, information about travel, and getting around Glasgow
Didn't find what you were looking for?
Here's a comprehensive list of support services, helpful resources and information.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/staff:
Colleague Internal Communications Hub

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sexual-violence-harassment-support:
Our video introducing the 'Together Against Gender-Based Violence' campaign.
This campaign was one of the actions that came from the Morag Ross KC Report which launched in December 2022 and reviewed UofG‘s handling of Gender Based Violence.
It set out that UofG would work closely with the Students’ Representative Council (SRC) to develop a University-wide campaign to communicate the different forms of GBV and how our community could access advice and support.
The development of the campaign has been shaped by a University-wide student and colleague partnership to develop the concepts, content and narrative, including a powerful art installation by Glasgow-based artist and illustrator, Molly Hankinson.
Together Against Gender-Based Violence art exhibition moves to Dumfries
Highlights of the activity and events covering the 16 Days of Activism in 2023, co-led with the GUSRC.
Find out more about the reasons for the campaign, as well as the processes and people involved in developing it.
The Safeguarding Team can support you.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/legal:
The University of Glasgow, charity number SC004401

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/legal/freedomofinformation:
The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 [ FoISA ] gives the general right of access to all recorded information that is held by the University.
Some information may be exempt from disclosure by the University if it is considered that one of the Act's 17 exemptions applies.
However many of these exemptions are not absolute and are subject to a 'public interest test' and a 'harm test'.
The Act is intended to promote openness and accountability within all Scottish Public Authorities - including Universities.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/enquireonline:
Registration and enrolment : Admissions are unable to help with module choices and options.
Please contact the Registration and Enrolment Support Team
We are based in the Fraser Building on level 2, Monday to Friday 1000 - 1600.
Please go to the Student Services welcome desk and we will be available to help.
Enquiry
Please complete all highlighted fields
Something went wrong, please try again later
By submitting this form you confirm you are the enquirer or have permission to act on their behalf
Privacy
Thank you for your enquiry, a member of our team will be in touch.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/contentcreators/studentcontentcreators:
From undergraduate to PhD students, our Student Content Creators share their experiences of what UofG student life is really like.
Follow our channels and search #MeetTeamUofG to watch their content and find out what to expect in Glasgow and beyond...
I'm Anna, I'm from Scotland and I'm studying English Literature and Theatre Studies.
Follow me on
Instagram
I’m Sophie, I’m from the United States and I’m studying Computer Science.
I’m Ash, I’m from India and I’m studying Molecular and Cellular Biology (with Biotechnology).
Hi!
I’m Nishka.
I'm from India and am studying Immunology!
I’m Julia, I’m from Peru and I’m studying Molecular and Cellular Biology.
My name is Zoë, I’m from Scotland and I study History/Politics
I’m Iona, I’m from Scotland and I’m studying French.
I'm Nyah, I'm from England, I'm studying Dentistry.
Tiktok
I’m Isabella, I’m from Germany and I’m studying Economics/Music.
I’m Samantha, I’m from the USA and I’m studying Film and TV/Theatre Studies.
I’m Shannon, I’m from Hong Kong and I’m studying Business Management.
I’m Siyi, I’m from China and I’m studying Mathematics.
I’m Taeshin, I’m from Thailand and I'm studying Computing Science and Statistics.
I’m Aaron, I’m from Scotland and I’m studying French and Spanish.
I’m Ryan , I’m from Zimbabwe and I’m studying Computing Science.
Follow me on:
I’m Nadia, I’m from Singapore and I’m studying Digital Media and Information Studies.
I am Navya , I'm from India and I'm studying Common Law LLB.
Listen to the Get to Know Glasgow podcast featuring our students
I’m Regan, I’m from Scotland and I’m studying the Diploma in Professional Legal Practice.
I'm Vivian, I'm from Canada and I'm studying PGT English Literature: Modernities - Literature, Culture, Theory.
I’m Renjie, I’m from China, and I’m studying the MRes Sociology and Research Methods.
I’m Adinda, I’m from Indonesia, and I’m studying Master of Public Health.
I’m Agung, I’m from Indonesia and I’m studying MBA.
I’m Shounak, from Mumbai, India and I’m studying MSC Biotechnology and Management.
I’m Matt, I’m from Malta and I’m studying MSc Global Health.
I’m Danielle, I’m from Scotland and I’m studying Business Management and Digital Media & Information Studies.
Follow me on
I’m Jessica, I’m from America and I’m studying Film & Television.
I’m Deborah, I’m from Nigeria and I’m studying Education, Public Policy & Equity.
I'm Jasmine from Nepal and I am studying MSc International Business.
I’m Zhihan, I’m from China and I’m studying International Accounting Financial Management.
I’m Gouri, I’m from India and I’m studying MSc.
Media, Communications, and International Journalism.
I’m Yessi, I’m from Indonesia and I’m studying MSc International and Comparative Education.
I’m Rohit, I’m from India and I’m studying Computing Science.
I’m Shuying, I’m from China and I’m studying International Management and Design Innovation.
Got questions about life at Glasgow?
Our student Unibuddies are happy to answer them!
I’m Rong, I’m from China and I’m studying Film and Television Studies.
I’m Papali, I’m from Lesotho and I’m studying Geology.
I’m Michelah, I’m from the USA and I’m studying Film and Theatre.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/gettoknowglasgow:
Then you’re in the right place.
Over the next seven webpage steps, you’ll be guided through what you need to know about student life in Glasgow by the people who know it best: real UofG students .
At each step, you'll find an episode of the first season of our Get to Know Glasgow podcast , hosted by UofG undergraduate and postgraduate students Ash, Danielle, Jachine and Victor.
In every episode, they’ll share their journeys and top tips, so you'll know what it's really like to be part of #TeamUofG .
Plus, you can find all episodes of the podcast including our special bonus episodes on the Get to Know Glasgow podcast homepage .
Begin your Get to Know Glasgow online journey now.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/arc/research:
The ARC co-locates diverse research teams and ideas in an innovative space, designed to stimulate cross-disciplinary activities by removing disciplinary and organisational structures and external barriers.
Research teams will work alongside each other in an open and shared environment that will test and refine collaborative approaches in research delivery.
This is the first time a Russell Group University has attempted to co-locate such a diverse mix of interdisciplinary researchers in one research facility.
ARC residents include researchers at all career stages, drawn from across the University.
They are encouraged to create and drive cross-disciplinary networks and partnerships, make connections internally and externally, work together to drive discovery research and deliver transformative solutions to current and future global challenges.
The ARC has flexible growth spaces for new and existing connections to develop and grow.
Providing room to flex and adapt in response to the dynamic research and innovation environment needed to inspire collaborations at the intersection of different disciplines.
Learn about our researchers via ARC Introducing
ARC Directory
Drug discovery offering new hope
Tackling the global water challenge
Developing quantum-powered healthcare sensors in the home
Restoring memory loss and prolonging life
Understanding the environmental impact of the music industry
Glasgow as a Living Lab Accelerating Novel Transformation

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/beacons/precisionmedicine:
At Glasgow we have a critical mass of world changing researchers working on cancer.
Find out more about our research and global impact.
Wed, 20 Sep 2023 00:01:03 BST
Cancer Research UK has announced its largest ever investment in Scotland of up to £123m, for the CRUK Scotland Institute (formerly known as the Cancer Research UK Beatson Institute)
Wed, 10 Mar 2021 12:00:00 GMT
The University of Glasgow will play a key role in a new pan European consortium, using artificial intelligence to improve treatments for pancreatic cancer.
Mon, 15 Feb 2021 00:01:57 GMT
The University of Glasgow has entered into a research collaboration with pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly and Company, that aims to discover and validate the next generation of drug targets for immunological diseases
Wed, 03 Feb 2021 07:00:00 GMT
Gabriel Precision Oncology Limited – a University of Glasgow spinout company – announces an important oncology collaboration with Congenica
Mon, 11 Jan 2021 08:00:00 GMT
The University of Glasgow has joined a large-scale European research project investigating the fundamental causes of hypertension, or high blood pressure.
Thu, 12 Nov 2020 14:51:00 GMT
A University of Glasgow scientist is set to play a leading role in a ground breaking clinical trial for people with lung cancer.
Mon, 12 Oct 2020 08:00:00 BST
Scientists have developed a new ‘Precision Medicine’ approach to treating the damaged DNA in the cancer cells of Pancreatic Cancer patients.
Mon, 12 Oct 2020 00:00:00 BST
A University of Glasgow-led national centre for research into inflammatory arthritis is proud to announce it has awarded 12 PhDs in its first round of funding, creating a new cadre of young scientists trained in pathogenesis research to fight arthritis
Read more about Precision Medicine & Chronic Diseases research at Glasgow...
Scotland has a high incidence of chronic disease.
There are rising numbers of people living with multiple long-term disorders, impacting on quality of life and increasing costs to the NHS.
The University’s Clinical Innovation Zone at the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital (QEUH) campus is now Scotland’s focal point for the implementation of precision medicine.
The Zone is home to the Precision Medicine Scotland Innovation Centre (PMS-IC, formerly the Stratified Medicine Scotland Innovation Centre).
Precision Medicine is an approach which enables doctors and researchers to identify and develop treatments that are effective for particular groups of patients, using advanced genomic, imaging and information technologies.
Precision medicine will ensure that the right patient gets the right treatment at the right time, and will provide safer and more cost-effective treatments.
Partnering with NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde, the University of Glasgow has driven Scotland’s vision in precision medicine, including the development of over £80m infrastructure to support precision medicine clinical trials at the QEUH.
Our £32m Imaging Centre of Excellence (ICE) includes Scotland’s only 7 Tesla MRI scanner, an ultra-high resolution scanner, which is the first of its kind fully integrated within a clinical site in the UK.
ICE will drive the development of imaging technology to understand and benefit diseases such as stroke, brain tumours and multiple sclerosis.
The University is one of Innovate UK’s Precision Medicine Centres of Excellence and our ambition is to be a global centre of excellence for chronic disease, precision medicine and imaging.
Capitalising on our investment in infrastructure and biomedical researchers to drive international research excellence and patient benefits, and deliver economic benefit for Scotland and the UK.
Supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals:
Find out more: Sustainable Development Goals

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/beacons/creativeeconomies:
Thu, 19 Dec 2024 10:10:00 GMT
The Tenementals, a Glasgow-based collective of academics, musicians and artists are reimagining Glasgow’s rich history through the collective power of music on their album ‘Glasgow: A History (Vol.
I of VI)'.
Tue, 21 Sep 2021 10:00:00 BST
A major £3.6m University of Glasgow-led research project that will use artificial intelligence to explore digital community heritage collections across the UK has been awarded £2.9m from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) Towards a National Collection programme to help create a unified virtual ‘national collection’.
Wed, 02 Jun 2021 09:00:00 BST
High-profile research conducted as part of the Arts & Humanities Research Council Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre (PEC) and published today has analysed how eight government and parliamentary reports and inquiries over an 18-month period have highlighted and set the agenda for platform regulation.
Mon, 21 Dec 2020 10:00:00 GMT
National Museums Scotland has been awarded a grant by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) to conduct a £1million research project into the Galloway Hoard, one of the most important UK archaeological finds of the century.
Mon, 28 Sep 2020 10:00:00 BST
Professor Lorna M Hughes has been elected to one of Europe’s foremost senior research bodies, the Academia Europaea (Academy of Europe).
Mon, 14 Sep 2020 09:00:00 BST
The first research centre in the world to focus solely on fantasy is being launched this week by UofG academics.
Tue, 01 Sep 2020 06:00:00 BST
An academic from the University of Glasgow have been elected to one of Europe’s foremost research bodies, the Academia Europaea (Academy of Europe).
Glasgow Researchers have created a database which reveals the stories of enslaved people who escaped their captivity in 18th century Britain.
This transformative research has inspired the creation of educational resources, films, plays and a graphic novel, and helped inspire the University to embark on a programme of reparative justice.
£2m of Arts and Humanities Research Council funding has underpinned years of painstaking scholarship by University of Glasgow academics into the works of Robert Burns.
By 2024, this research will culminate in a new, ten volume edition of Burns' entire works.
Read more about Creative & Cultural Economies research at Glasgow...
Our research has impacts on all aspects of creativity, cultural life and the creative economy – cultural institutions, film and television industries, cultural policy, performance, creative writing and art history.
We develop digital methods to enhance research.
We are creating and applying unique, interactive digital tools and resources to generate and share our research.
We support the global cultural and creative economy.
Through our Centre for Cultural Policy Research, we contribute to public debate, and inform policy development throughout the world.
CREATe, our international research centre specialising in copyright and information law, focuses on innovation in the creative economy.
We use the past to engage communities and inspire the future.
Our research engages, informs and connects the public and policymakers with their heritage.
Glasgow is an international hub for innovation in art and culture.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/beacons/futurelife:
Mon, 22 Mar 2021 08:00:45 GMT
A new type of 3D-printed battery which uses electrodes made from vegetable starch and carbon nanotubes could provide mobile devices with a more environmentally-friendly, higher-capacity source of power.
Fri, 27 Nov 2020 00:01:00 GMT
A University of Glasgow computing scientist is setting out to develop smarter, more helpful virtual personal assistants with the support of a prestigious new fellowship.
The development of non-animal technologies by Glasgow bioengineers and life scientists will improve the prospects for drugs that make it to clinical trial.
Innovations within the Cronin Group are driving the digitisation of chemistry, the emergence of the robot chemist and, eventually, the chemical internet
Glasgow's Multimodal Interaction Group is working with leading car makers to help drivers better interact with technologically-sophisticated vehicles
Glasgow is leading the EPSRC-funded Science of Sensor System Software research programme
Read more about Future Life research at Glasgow...
How did life start on earth?
Can we make artificial life?
Can we design and construct new biological pathways or systems that do not exist in nature but that mirror or enhance its properties?
These questions will help us to understand the limits of the processes of current biology, and the ability to develop new approaches to treat and prevent disease, and so improve the quality of our lives.
Researchers at Glasgow are working to answer these questions.
The future is now
Our researchers have developed ground-breaking methods to reverse-engineer human cognitive processes — where, when, and how specific information is processed — from complex brain activity.
The aim is to then implant these formal models into neuro-circuits, human avatars and robots, giving them human-like flexible cognitive abilities.
We are exploring the digital control of chemical reactions using robotic systems, allowing us to investigate complex chemical processes.
This approach can not only enhance the efficiency with which we can discover novel chemistry, but also promises to rewrite the rules of chemical synthesis.
Our research will impact the quality of life and life expectancy by developing advanced healthcare technologies.
We will develop diagnostic tools and novel stem-cell based engineering solutions to target disease before symptoms are evident and so too late for effective treatment.
Future life integrates groups from complex chemical systems, biomaterials and stem cell engineering, neuroscience, psychology and medical technologies.
Working together to improve our world.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/beacons/onehealth:
Thu, 30 Nov 2023 10:21:55 GMT
Levels of banned chemicals in UK-stranded orcas are 30 times over the toxic threshold, uncovers new research.
Thu, 20 Apr 2023 08:00:00 BST
The University of Glasgow – in collaboration with the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) and UK Centre for Ecology & Hydrology (UKCEH) – has been awarded a £1.25m grant aimed at improving our understanding of how climate change could increase the risk of mosquito-borne disease in Scotland, and enhance our preparedness.
Mon, 15 Mar 2021 07:15:00 GMT
Scientists looking at the evolution of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, have found that since December 2019 – and for the first 11 months of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic – there has been very little ‘important’ genetic change observed in the hundreds of thousands of sequenced virus genomes.
Wed, 03 Mar 2021 10:00:00 GMT
The University of Glasgow is furthering its long-term commitment to working with organisations in Malawi with the establishment of an interdisciplinary collaboration network, bringing together colleges from across the University
Thu, 07 Jan 2021 07:08:00 GMT
Scientists have solved a key parasitic puzzle, revealing the unique and complex structures toxoplasmosis and malaria parasites make in order to survive in different hosts.
Wed, 11 Nov 2020 00:01:13 GMT
Professor Steven Sinkins, Professor at the MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research (CVR), has been awarded almost £3m to continue his pioneering mosquito symbiont work by Open Philanthropy
Glasgow researchers have spearheaded the global push to eliminate rabies, one of the world's deadliest and most frightening diseases.
Fri, 02 Oct 2020 15:55:47 BST
The University of Glasgow is joining a global five-year program to understand and address threats posed by zoonotic viral diseases that can “spill over” from animals to humans, such as SARS-CoV-2, in an effort to reduce risk of infection, amplification, and spread.
At Glasgow we are proud to support our world-changers who are working with partners throughout the world to understand, treat and prevent malaria.
As the world commemorates World Mosquito Day 2020 find out more about our malaria-related research.
More about One Health research at Glasgow...
Glasgow is an international leader in One Health research.
We seek to improve human and animal health by addressing questions that arise as a result of the many and diverse interdependencies between these two domains.
One Health approaches cannot be confined to the study of either human or veterinary medicine, or even to a combination of the two.
Instead, the effective resolution of health questions depends critically on understanding the complex biological and social, economic, political and environmental contexts in which those questions are embedded.
With the growing recognition of the importance of multimorbidity, this area of research has expanded to include the study of interactions between infectious and non-communicable disease.
These complex issues are most powerfully addressed through interdisciplinary collaborations.
At Glasgow, researchers from human and veterinary clinical medicine are closely integrated with life scientists, and interface with social and physical scientists to deliver world-changing research.
We work both across the Global South with a focus on sub-Saharan Africa, particularly Tanzania and Malawi, and in Scotland and the rest of the UK.
Our collaborations have made a significant impact on key national, global health and veterinary agendas.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/beacons/inequalities:
Fri, 22 Oct 2021 11:17:00 BST
A new generation of healthcare professionals will be trained to become world-leading experts in multimorbidity – one of the most significant healthcare challenges in both the UK and globally.
Tue, 15 Dec 2020 10:15:00 GMT
People in Scotland’s poorest areas are more likely to be affected by severe Covid-19 – and to die from the disease – than those in more affluent districts, according to a study of critical care units.
Wed, 21 Oct 2020 08:00:00 BST
The first six weeks of the pandemic and lockdown had a major impact on the UK population’s mental health and wellbeing, according to new research
Thu, 03 Sep 2020 11:00:00 BST
Public health doctor Professor Vittal Katikireddi has been awarded £1.3m in the prestigious European Research Council Starting Grant scheme.
Dr Mia Perry argues that without contextual knowledge, education and adaptation, foreign or imposed practices or resources cause new sets of problems.
Glasgow researchers led a project to assess the impact of cuts to local authority budgets and created a toolkit to mitigate negative results.
The findings have influenced policy at a national and local government level, inspired public debate and influenced budgetary decision-making.
The UK housing system faces long-term problems of affordability, inequality and homelessness.
The University of Glasgow is leading a new research programme to tackle housing problems at a national, regional and local level.
The number of problem gamblers in the UK is rising.
Researchers at the University of Glasgow are investigating the processes involved in gambling behaviour to help tackle the issue in the UK and further afield.
Healthcare resources internationally are increasingly strained by the demands of multimorbidity in areas of deprivation.
Research at Glasgow has led the healthcare sector and policy-makers in Scotland towards a greater recognition of multimorbidity.
Read m ore about Addressing Inequalities research at Glasgow...
At Glasgow we work together to understand, and address, the processes that generate inequalities and their profound effects on individuals, communities and populations across the world.
Inequality, deprivation and marginalisation have many causes.
In Glasgow, we recognise that a one-size-fits-all answer does not exist, and we work to find appropriate, sustainable solutions.
We work with communities, governments and international organisations to evaluate and develop policies and action that seek to create fairer societies.
For example, our award-winning research and learning programme, GoWell has informed policies and strategies which have directly led to improvements in social regeneration and health outcomes in deprived neighbourhoods and communities.
We have created new forums for dialogue and influence on refugee, asylum and migration policy.
Working with policymakers, practitioners and other stakeholders, Glasgow researchers have enhanced service delivery for marginalised groups by informing policy debates.
Our researchers work with local and national governments to develop and assess policies to reduce health inequalities.
Researchers from Glasgow have shown that having access to green space may significantly reduce the gap in mental wellbeing and mortality between richer and poorer people.
This work is now influencing urban planning and development, with the long-term aim of changing people’s environments and reducing health inequalities.
Our goal is to support real world change so that everyone can fulfil their potential irrespective of who they are or where they come from.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/beacons/nanoquantum:
Bringing industry and academia together to revolutionise PNT technology to support national security and critical infrastructure.
Our Centre for Quantum Technology is advancing the UK’s lead in quantum technology while training the future experts in the field.
Imaging at a trillion frames per second allows us to see around corners and could even help read our thoughts
Thu, 11 Mar 2021 09:00:00 GMT
A University of Glasgow collaborative research project will investigate the impact of touch deprivation on the deafblind community during the Covid pandemic.
Thu, 04 Feb 2021 16:00:00 GMT
A new type of quantum holography which uses entangled photons to overcome the limitations of conventional holographic approaches could lead to improved medical imaging and speed the advance of quantum information science.
Mon, 07 Sep 2020 09:30:00 BST
A project which aims to develop quantum-powered health sensors for home use in order to spot the earliest signs of disease is being backed by £5.5m in new funding.
Mon, 22 Jun 2020 16:00:00 BST
A 50-year-old theory that began as speculation about how an alien civilisation could use a black hole to generate energy has been experimentally verified for the first time in a Glasgow research lab.
Mon, 15 Mar 2021 09:00:00 GMT
A University of Glasgow physicist’s contributions to the field of gravitational-wave astronomy have been recognised with an international award.
Wed, 02 Sep 2020 13:00:00 BST
The most massive gravitational-wave source yet has been detected – a binary black hole merger, which produced a blast equal to the energy of eight suns, sending shockwaves through the universe.
More about Nano & Quantum research at Glasgow...
Glasgow is an international centre of excellence in quantum and nanoscience, translating our fundamental understanding of these phenomena into world-changing technologies.
On the smallest possible scale, we study and control particles of matter and light to understand the building blocks of the universe.
We engineer complex combinations of materials over length scales, from nanometres to centimetres, with reproducibility that enables low-cost components with the highest levels of functionality and energy efficiency.
On the largest scale, we use our expertise to open new windows to the universe through the detection of gravitational waves.
We lead the UK Hub for Quantum Enabled Position, Navigation & Timing (QEPNT); host the James Watt Nanofabrication Centre, the UK’s leading facility; and are members of a world-leading international Max-Planck Partnership in Measurement and Observation at the Quantum Limit.
We are training the next generation of nano/quantum scientists and engineers and our Innovation Centre, CENSIS, pioneers new sensor systems for industry.
We are leaders in the nano and quantum world.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/news/headline_1207479_en.html:
Published: 27 August 2025
A new briefing from the Scottish Parliament Information Centre (SPICe) examines and offers learnings from the implementation of the Homes for Ukraine and Scottish Super Sponsor Scheme in Scotland.
The research was carried out by Dr Dan Fisher, of the UofG's Centre for Public Policy, during his SPICe Academic Fellowship.
It is informed by interviews with senior actors and decision-makers in the Scottish Government, Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (CoSLA) and Local Authorities who were involved in the resettlement of people from Ukraine in Scotland.
Given that both schemes were designed and implemented within just 32 days of the illegal invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces in February 2022, the report concludes that the resettlement effort was a positive demonstration of the UK Government, Scottish Government, CoSLA and Local Authorities cooperating in the face of a crisis.
However, it also notes that there are many learnings that can be made in the event of a similar crisis occurring in the future.
It says the response emphasised the value of trust and regular communication between Scottish Government directorates and UK Government departments - especially where they do not routinely work together outside of crisis situations.
It also notes that there should have been better means of sharing information with the UK Government, Scottish Government and Local Authorities about people’s visa applications and case files following their arrival in the UK.
This would have supported Local Authorities in delivering the Homes for Ukraine scheme on the ground, who often reported that they frequently learned of sponsorship arrangements after guests from Ukraine had already arrived in the UK.
Through the interviews, the research also found that Scottish Government officials had a lack of oversight of the visa applications being processed by the UK Home Office.
Better sharing of visa processing data could have also improved the administration of the Scottish Super Sponsor Scheme, as more knowledge of arrivals might have improved the organisation of temporary Welcome Accommodation for those sponsored by the Scottish Government.
However, the report also notes that both government schemes would have benefited from more input from Local Authority resettlement teams with experience of refugee integration.
Closer collaboration on the Homes for Ukraine Scheme with local government might have helped local communities to better understand the requirements and expectations of sponsorship.
In the case of the Scottish Super Sponsor Scheme, better collaboration might have prevented the bottlenecks that occurred in Welcome Accommodation - where it became difficult to encourage people to move out of Welcome Accommodation, especially once children had been enrolled in school and adults had found local employment.
The briefing makes the following key recommendations for a future migration crisis:
While a crisis response may require new resilience structures to be established, existing governance structures, knowledge and experience should be recognised and used as far as possible in the design of new schemes.
Better understanding of housing availability should be made before setting out the parameters of a response.
Data management and data transfer should be at the forefront of discussions when establishing a response to a crisis.
For person-centred and trauma-informed approaches, greater alignment should be considered between government departments designing policy and those responsible for implementing it.
Clearer communication should be made to those being resettled, so they understand any expectations made of them in return for the support they are granted, for example around Welcome Accommodation.
Dr Dan Fisher, Research Associate at the Centre for Public Policy and author of the briefing, said: "I’m incredibly grateful to those who contributed to the report by recounting their experiences of implementing the Ukraine resettlement efforts in Scotland.
In a world in which forced migration is likely to become increasingly common, I hope this briefing provides useful insights to the Scottish Parliament (and perhaps others abroad too)."
Professor Nicola McEwen, Director of the Centre for Public Policy, said: "This is an excellent report that highlights the importance of intergovernmental collaboration, not just in times of crisis.
These resettlement schemes are a perfect illustration of how policy challenges often defy the constitutional division of powers, and demand governments work together to achieve better outcomes for those they are trying to support.
“At the Centre for Public Policy, we are committed to working with the policy community as they confront pressing challenges.
Forced migration and refugee integration are among the most pressing.
Dan’s evidence-based analysis and recommendations offer rich insight and practical guidance.
Not only as a reflection on what worked and what could have worked better, but to inform planning in the face of new shared challenges.”
First published: 27 August 2025
<< University news
in this issue
next story >>

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/news/headline_1207197_en.html:
Researchers at the MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research have begun a new study that could influence how we protect babies from serious respiratory illness.
Led by Professor Antonia Ho and Dr Louisa Pollock a paediatrician in NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde, the BORLAND (Benefits Of RSV Maternal Vaccination Using A Scottish National Dataset) project will track the real-world effectiveness of RSV vaccines given to pregnant women across Scotland.
The BORLAND project is backed with a £428,000 grant from Pfizer, and comes just one year after Scotland first started offering RSV vaccines to pregnant women.
RSV (Respiratory Syncytial Virus) is a common respiratory infection that will impact almost every child by their second birthday.
For most children the infection is mild, however for some infants, especially those under six months, RSV can cause serious illness, including breathing problems that require hospital treatment.
In Scotland, around 900 babies under six months end up in hospital with RSV each year, roughly 15 out of every 1,000 babies born.
To help protect newborns and young infants, in August 2024 Scotland began offering RSV vaccines to pregnant women.
Vaccination enables protective antibodies to pass from mother to baby, before birth, helping to shield newborns from of severe RSV illness during their first six months of life.
Uptake in the vaccine has been positive, with around 50% of all eligible mothers taking up the vaccine by May 2025.
Recent evaluation by Public Health Scotland (PHS), of the first winter season after vaccine was launched, showed that babies whose mums were vaccinated in pregnancy were around 80% less likely to be admitted to hospital with RSV in their first three months of life, compared to babies whose mums were not vaccinated.
The PHS data also showed that 228 fewer babies were admitted to hospital in Scotland last winter as a result of protection from the vaccine.
The BORLAND project will now look at the broader impact and effectiveness of the RSV vaccine in Scotland, using Scotland-wide data.
Using anonymised data, the research team will look at the six-month health outcomes of around 66,000 mother-baby pairs.
The project will look at vaccination data, alongside hospital and other medical records, to better understand the level of protection offered to newborns by the RSV vaccine.
The project will assess how well the vaccine works for different groups, including premature babies, and infants from a range of backgrounds.
The team will also look at babies born to mother’s who were vaccinated at different stages of pregnancy, to better understand if there is an optimum time to offer the vaccine.
Professor Antonia Ho, Professor of Infectious Diseases at the CVR, said: “Evidence from the BORLAND project will give parents, doctors, and policymakers the evidence they need to make the best choices for protecting babies.
We hope that by gathering this robust data, this study could help influence how we approach RSV prevention in Scotland, across the UK and beyond.”
Dr Louisa Pollock, a paediatrician in NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde and Clinical Senior Lecturer at the CVR, said: “An RSV infection can be very serious for some infants, particularly those under six months.
It’s vital now that we build on the data we have from Public Health Scotland from the first year of vaccines being offered to pregnant women in Scotland, so that mothers can make the best informed choices to help protect their baby.”
Enquiries: ali.howard@glasgow.ac.uk or elizabeth.mcmeekin@glasgow.ac.uk
<< previous story
Professor Antonia Ho, research profile
MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research
College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/news/headline_1207014_en.html:
Published: 26 August 2025
When the remnants of some of the Universe’s largest stars collide they create ripples which travel through the geometry of space and time which are detected by the LIGO, Virgo, and KAGRA gravitational-wave observatories.
First detected in 2015, measuring these ripples - gravitational-waves - require the most sensitive instruments ever created.
While created by some of the Universe’s most violent events, by the time they reach Earth, gravitational waves are almost imperceptibly small.
Decades of research were needed to develop the detectors to make the first observation.
Researchers from the University of Glasgow led an international team of scientists who analysed the data which is released today from the fourth observing run of these detectors, with data collected between May 2023 and January 2024.
This new analysis, which is presented in ‘GWTC-4.0: Updating the Gravitational-Wave Transient Catalog with Observations from the First Part of the Fourth LIGO-Virgo-KAGRA Observing Run’ as a preprint available from the arXiv , more than doubles the number of collisions between black holes and neutron stars reported to date, with 128 new mergers detected in the nine months of data analysed.
“This new update really highlights the capabilities of both the international network of gravitational-wave detectors, and the analysis techniques which have been developed to dig very faint signals out of the data,” said paper co-author Dr Daniel Williams, a research fellow in the Institute for Gravitational Research (IGR) at the University of Glasgow, who led the team who performed the analysis.
“What we’ve observed in the first part of the two-year-long fourth observing run has broadened our understanding of the cosmic graveyard: we’ve seen the heaviest black holes yet.” The catalogue also contains signals from two mergers between black holes and neutron stars; one of these was previously published as GW230529, but a second, GW230518, is fully described here for the first time.
Collisions of this kind may produce bright bursts of light as the neutron star is consumed by the black hole.
“This time around we didn’t see anything except for gravitational waves from these mergers, but exciting new telescopes such as the Vera Rubin Telescope mean that making coincident detections of gravitational waves and light is becoming much more likely,” added Dr Williams.
Understanding the diversity of neutron star black hole binaries will help astronomers target their observations to maximise the chance of catching the rare flash of light accompanying a merger.
The large number of new detections are thanks to sensitivity improvements which have been made to the LIGO detectors since 2020.
The University of Glasgow has made key contributions to the development of these detectors over the last three decades.
“During the fourth observing run the detectors have routinely been able to make measurements more than 25% more sensitive than in the previous observing run.
This allows us to observe a much larger fraction of the Universe,” said Dr Andrew Spencer, a lecturer in the IGR.
The enhanced sensitivity of the detectors means we can detect more sources, and it also means that we can make clearer measurements of gravitational-wave signals.
The observation GW230814 is the loudest gravitational-wave observation to date.
“Gravitational-wave signals are the perfect way to test Einstein’s theory of gravity.
The louder the signal, the more precise our measurements of any potential deviations,” explained the IGR’s Dr John Veitch.
“So far Einstein has passed every test, but we will keep looking closer!
For these types of analysis, it is very important to have observations from multiple gravitational-wave detectors, so you can cross-reference the signal in both.” As we gather more detections we can also learn more about the fundamental nature of the Universe.
“The Universe is expanding, and the speed at which it is doing so is known as the Hubble Constant.
A unique feature of black hole mergers is that we can tell how far away they were directly from our observation”, said Dr Rachel Gray, a lecturer in the IGR who leads the Collaboration’s cosmological science group.
“This means that each merger we detect gives some information about the Universe's expansion rate.
By combining this information from many mergers, we can improve our measurement of the Hubble Constant, helping to answer one of the big unanswered questions of modern astronomy: exactly how fast is the Universe expanding?” The new variety of different mergers also casts new light on how stars have evolved over the history of the Universe.
“In a similar way to how a palaeontologist can learn about long-extinct dinosaurs by looking at their fossilised bones, we can learn about stars by looking at their black hole or neutron star remains,” said Dr Christopher Berry of the IGR.
“The biggest stars live the shortest lives, so they can be hard to study in other ways.
Stars live their lives in many different environments.
Some form in dense stellar environments like nuclear star clusters, where millions of stars are in close proximity.
Here, we might expect that following a binary black hole merger, the remnant black hole could find a new partner and merge again, forming an even bigger black hole.
“In GWTC-4.0 we’ve seen tell-tale hints that some of the sources could come from black holes that were themselves the result of previous mergers.
Teasing out the black holes formed from collapsing stars from those formed from previous mergers will tell us about how stars live their lives, and where they live their lives across the Universe.”
First published: 26 August 2025

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/connect/businessandinnovation/facilities:
Services are available to industry at commercially competitive rates.
This enables companies to address and solve key technical challenges, increase product performance and improve business operations.
Our technology centres deliver high quality, client-focussed and insightful solutions on a timely basis.
For your company’s own requirements, please contact the appropriate University facility.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/colleges/arts/research:
The College of Arts & Humanities provides a rich environment for research and collaboration.
Research is intertwined with our graduate and undergraduate programmes and greatly influences the content of our academic curriculum.
The accomplishments of our academics and leadership in subject areas are recognised consistently in UK and international league tables and the UK Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Discover our world-leading research
For support with Research, Partnership Development, Impact, IAA & Digital Humanities.
Get support from the College of Arts Research Office
Policies, guidelines, application and consent forms

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/colleges/mvls:
The purpose of our College is to positively impact the major challenges that face our society in Scotland, the UK and globally.
We deliver internationally leading research and outstanding education to future world-changing students.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/colleges/scienceengineering/research:
Our world-class researchers in science and engineering work in a range of interdisciplinary areas to deliver benefits to the economy, health, culture and environment.
Our researchers have contributed to some of the most exciting scientific discoveries and developments over the years, from quantum systems on a chip to gravitational waves.
World class research
Our long-term national and international partnerships have supported major cross-disciplinary research projects delivering economic, environmental and health impact.
Lasting impact
Find out more about:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/colleges/socialsciences/research:
Resources to support researchers at the College of Social Sciences.
Research Support
The ethical review process for all College staff and students undertaking research.
Research ethics
To build critical mass in our interdisciplinary partnerships, we are driving our research strategy and dedicating research development to support our social science-led interdisciplinary themes.
Interdisciplinary Research Themes
About the research in our Schools, networks and groups, and the Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Research excellence
The framework through which researchers work to achieve the cross-College vision for research and scholarship, refreshed in July 2022.
Research & Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2020-2024
Training courses and support for early career academic staff for skills in research, impact, teaching, management and leadership.
Early Career Development Programme

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/contact:
Research and Innovation Services
11 The Square University of Glasgow G12 8QQ
Find a staff member by surname:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/avenue:
The antiques expert has progressed from pounding the gavel at a busy Glasgow auctioneers to hunting down bargains in antiques shops all over the country to share with her TV audiences.
The striking impact of our partnership with IntoUniversity, a new women's entrepreneur network, successes for our people, and more.
Join us for the University’s third Giving Day!
Find out what’s happening when, and how to be part of the action.
The fascinating story of how we look after the archives of numerous Glasgow businesses – from well-known institutions to the quirky and obscure.
We’re celebrating the city’s anniversary with eight centuries’-worth of questions – how many will you get right?
When GP Joshua met medical student Nuriya – both of them from 'widening participation' backgrounds not traditionally associated with university study.
How can you make an impact in your career when you work remotely?
We have expert tips for success.
Support us today and help us change the world tomorrow.
News, achievements and notices from your University and alumni community.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/abouttheuniversity:
Our people have always been at the forefront of innovation, including eight Nobel Laureates, two UK Prime Ministers, three First Ministers of Scotland, 10 Fellows of the Royal Society and 11 Fellows of the British Academy.
Our past achievements inspire our current world changers.
As a globally connected university, we work in partnership with others across the world to advance global solutions to real world problems.
We are proud to be a founding member of the university networks Universitas 21 and The Guild of European Research Intensive Universities.
We are committed to tackling the most pressing global challenges facing humanity and the natural world.
We are delivering against the United Nation’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and have pledged to be carbon neutral by 2030.
We were the first European university to declare it would divest from fossil fuels by 2024 and the first in Scotland to declare a climate emergency.
We believe that everyone should have fair access to education.
We are proud of our long tradition of helping talented people to fulfil their ambitions, regardless of their background or circumstances.
Our University of Sanctuary status recognises the safe and welcoming environment we provide for refugees and asylum seekers.
We are home to The Hunterian, our museum and art gallery, one of the leading university museums in the world.
We have the world’s largest permanent display of the work of James McNeill Whistler and the largest single holding of the work of Charles Rennie Mackintosh.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/inclusiveglasgow:
The University of Glasgow is committed to building an inclusive and welcoming community for all.
We believe everyone should have the opportunity to reach their potential.
That’s why here at Glasgow we are proud of our long tradition of helping talented people to fulfil their ambitions regardless of their background or circumstances.
Through our widening participation work we encourage, prepare and support students who are under-represented in higher education to achieve entry to university.
We work with more than 100 target schools, as well as colleges, local authorities and other organisations to support school leavers and adult learners alike to prepare for, apply to and succeed at university.
If students have the potential, drive and ambition to succeed, we will do all we can to support them to overcome barriers and realise their aspirations.
From giving support to access university, to helping students flourish during their studies, to supporting them as they launch their career – we are with our ambitious people at every stage of their journey.
In 2022 we were awarded University of Sanctuary status in recognition of our commitment to supporting people who have experienced forced migration.We have a number of initiatives that promote accessibility for displaced people, supporting inclusivity and providing a safe environment for refugees and asylum seekers.
We offer targeted pastoral, financial and educational support, including scholarships to assist applicants to the University who are in the UK on humanitarian grounds.
We also embed a culture of sanctuary into University policies and processes, such as adjusted offers of entry for those who have experienced forced migration, and embed learning about experiences of forced migration into the curriculum.
Our history of openness at Glasgow stretches back over the centuries.
After being refused entry to university in his own country because of his race, James McCune Smith came to study at Glasgow.
In 1837 he became the first African-American to receive a university medical degree.
He was influential in more than just medicine, however.
He was a dedicated and committed slavery abolitionist.
At Glasgow, we are proud of our diverse, vibrant and talented people and their ambitions to change the world.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/sanctuary:
At the University of Glasgow, we are committed to ensuring that background and life circumstance are never a barrier to higher education for the brightest minds.
We aim to be an inclusive and welcoming campus where every member of our #TeamUofG community feels safe, respected, and supported to fulfil their potential.
In November 2022, the University was awarded University of Sanctuary status in recognition of the University’s commitment to supporting forced migrants from across the world.
Being awarded University of Sanctuary status is a testament to our commitment to promoting fairness and equity of opportunity for all.
We are aware that those seeking sanctuary can often face additional barriers to accessing education and are dedicated to ensuring that tailored and targeted support is available for those members of our community who have been forcibly displaced from their home.
We know that we cannot achieve this alone, and I am proud of the University’s ongoing partnerships with organisations such as the Council for at Risk Academics (Cara), Universities of Sanctuary, Refuweegee and others.
From our Sanctuary Scholarships and adjusted entry requirements, to dedicated events and named points of contact who can offer advice, information, and guidance from the pre-application stage through to graduation and beyond, we are committed to embedding a culture of welcome into our university policies and processes.
As an institution, we recognise the need to work alongside other institutions, cross-sector organisations and national governments to maximise our efforts.
We will continue to engage with others from across the sector to advocate for those seeking sanctuary and to focus on the coordination of collective activity in areas such as educational pathways, wellbeing and emotional support, immigration requirements and student finance.
Rachel Sandison
Sanctuary Champion
Deputy Vice Chancellor (External Engagement)
We are committed to supporting anyone in our community who is affected by crises or conflicts around the world.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/notablealumni:
We have nurtured writers, renowned thinkers and political leaders as they’ve sought to change the world.
Glasgow is a breeding ground for talented writers.
Our list of literary graduates range from AJ Cronin, Catherine Carswell and Tobias Smollett to Anne Donovan, William McIlvanney, William Boyd, Louise Welsh, Chris Brookmyre, Denise Mina and Alan Warner.
Writer and producer Steven Moffat, best known for his work as showrunner, writer and executive producer of TV series Doctor Who and Sherlock, found his passion for TV with Glasgow University Student Television.
John Buchan, author of many adventure and historical novels including The Thirty-Nine Steps, studied at Glasgow during the 1890s.
As well as an acclaimed novelist he was also a politician, holding the post of Governor-General of Canada.
Across the political parties, ambitious Glasgow alumni have been leading the way for generations.
Law graduate Nicola Sturgeon followed an impressive line of political leaders who studied at Glasgow when she made history as the first female First Minister of Scotland in 2014.
Our Glasgow University Union debating chamber has come to be considered one of the finest training grounds for young and ambitious politicians.
The talents nurtured here include former leaders of the Liberal Democrats Sir Vince Cable, Charles Kennedy and Sir Menzies Campbell, former Leader of the Labour Party John Smith and Scotland’s inaugural First Minister Donald Dewar.
Another of our history makers is Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman who became our first alumnus to be elected Prime Minister in 1905.
Following in his footsteps, Andrew Bonar Law served as Prime Minister from 1922 to 1923.
Adam Smith was a student and professor at the University of Glasgow during the flourishing of learning that marked the Scottish Enlightenment.
He is a truly global figure whose work changed the world.
His most famous book, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, was published in 1776 and remains in print to this day.
With Chemistry graduate Professor Sir David MacMillan receiving the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2021, we now have eight Nobel laureates associated with UofG, all shining examples of the world-changing researchers that have made an impact and built our reputation for hundreds of years.
Our people have always been at the forefront of innovation and our past achievements inspire our current world changers.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/research/az/publicpolicy:
Governments and parliamentarians are confronting many difficult policy and societal challenges, from climate change to inequality, and ensuring the economy keeps pace with demographic and technological change.
The Centre for Public Policy is a commitment from the University of Glasgow to play our part in working with the policy community - locally, nationally and internationally - to access expertise, evidence, and to devise the right tools to find solutions to the challenges they face.
To build collaboration between the research and policy community, by sharing evidence, nurturing skills, creating space for fresh thinking and preparing the next generation of policymakers.
We bring together experts across disciplines, sectors and communities to help policymakers deal with the myriad of challenges they face.
We do this through research, engagement, policy labs and other collaborative projects.
We offer a broad range of expertise in public policy across disciplines, sectors, governments and politics.
Meet our team
28 August 2025
University of Glasgow researchers have published a new report for the Scottish Government, which identifies how an independent legal representation service for complainers in sexual offence cases in Scotland could be implemented.
The service was a commitment made in the Victims, Witnesses, and Justice Reform (Scotland) Bill, which is presently at Stage 3 in the Scottish Parliament.
Read more
27 August 2025
A new briefing from the Scottish Parliament Information Centre (SPICe), written by the Centre for Public Policy's Dr Dan Fisher, examines and offers learnings from the implementation of the Homes for Ukraine and Scottish Super Sponsor Scheme in Scotland.
21 August 2025
The University of Glasgow’s Centre for Public Policy has appointed its inaugural cohort of Practice Fellows.
Six policy professionals from across UK, Scottish, and local government and the voluntary sector, will spend time at the Centre over the next six months to gain insights into policy questions they face in their roles.
View all news and insights
The University of Glasgow Spotlight podcast discusses public policy and the political process at a local, national and international level, through a Scottish lens.
It brings together insights from experts across the University of Glasgow and beyond, in an accessible and engaging way.
Listen
The Centre for Public Policy works in collaboration with other organisations.
Sign up to the email list to get regular updates on new articles and latest events.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/accountingfinance:
94% of our research has been evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ in the latest Research Excellence Framework [2021]
Accounting and Finance, part of the triple-accedited Adam Smith Business School at Glasgow, has had an international reputation for high quality research since 1925.
We are a broad subject group, bringing together expertise in the main areas of:
We also have specialist knowledge of accounting education, accounting history, auditing and corporate governance.
If you study with us, you can gain career-enhancing professional skills and a degree accredited by all the major UK professional accounting bodies.
Complete University Guide [Accounting & Finance]
Guardian University Guide [Accounting & Finance]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Accounting & Finance]
QS World University Rankings [Accounting & Finance]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/aerospaceengineering:
96% of our research has been evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ in the latest Research Excellence Framework [2021]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Aeronautical & Manufacturing Engineering]
Complete University Guide [Aeronautical & Aerospace Engineering]
Shanghai Ranking's Global [Aerospace Engineering]
The University of Glasgow has been renowned for its aerospace research for over 60 years.
The expertise in our Division of Autonomous Systems and Connectivity is internationally recognised in all areas of aeronautics and aerospace, communication, sensing and imaging systems, and devices..
Students benefit from access to our outstanding facilities: including several wind tunnels, a flight simulation lab, an autonomous unmanned vehicle (UAV) laboratory, helicopter test rig laboratories, structural testing apparatus and computer labs for modelling and simulation.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/archaeology:
91% of our research has been evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ in the latest Research Excellence Framework [2021]
QS World University Rankings [Archaeology]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/biodiversity:
At Glasgow, we’ve created multidisciplinary teams to address national and global biodiversity research challenges.
Unique in the UK, the range of our research spans multiple biological levels, integrating:
Given the threats posed by environmental change and rapidly increasing human population, there’s never been a more urgent need for a holistic approach.
With this belief in mind, we bring together rigorous quantitative analysis, appropriate theoretical frameworks and predictive modelling to help us understand the interdependence of animal and human populations, ecosystems and the environment.
Guardian University Guide [Biology]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Biological Sciences]
Complete University Guide [Biological Sciences ]
QS World University Rankings [Biological Sciences]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/biologicalsciences:
ShanghaiRanking's Global [Human Biological Sciences]
We offer a wide range of degrees in Human and Animal Biology, Biomolecular Sciences, and Infection and Immunity that attract students from across the world.
Study with us and you will benefit from research-led education which will equip you with the skills and attributes necessary for success in any chosen career.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/business:
The Adam Smith Business School is comprised of the subjects of

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/cancersciences:
Glasgow brings together scientists and clinicians to promote and develop the best in cancer research, drug discovery and patient care.
We work together to:
We are a major component of the Cancer Research UK West of Scotland Cancer Centre, and we unite:
We take an integrated approach.
Ranging across chemistry, basic biological science, veterinary pathology and cancer medicine, we work to break down barriers.
The result is an outstanding environment in which we train the next generation of scientific and clinical cancer researcher leaders.
Our areas of expertise include:
Our focus on colorectal, pancreatic and haematological cancers incorporates a highly active clinical trials programme.
Our clinical trials unit is a vital coordinator of clinical studies.
It works to:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/cardiovascular:
97% of our research has been evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ in the latest Research Excellence Framework [2021]
Complete University Guide [Biomedical Sciences]
Times Higher Education World University Rankings [Medical & Health]
At Glasgow we bring together basic, translational and clinical research in cardiovascular & metabolic health, and we deliver a range of undergraduate and postgraduate teaching and clinical programmes.
Our research groups are based in the purpose-built British Heart Foundation Glasgow Cardiovascular Research Centre, the West Medical Building, the Western Infirmary, and the Royal Infirmary.
State-of-the-art facilities enable us to focus on a comprehensive research agenda.
Areas of expertise include:
We have a number of strategic collaborations with other research institutes, as well as multidisciplinary collaborations with mathematics, computing science, bioinformatics, structural biology and engineering under the umbrella of Systems Medicine.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/celticgaelic:
Find out more about our research projects, events and opportunities
Certificate of Higher Education
This programme allows you to develop advanced Gaelic language skills, as well as acquire in-depth knowledge and understanding of Scottish Gaelic language, culture, and literature through advanced level Gaelic language immersion.
Gaelic events, learning and community at the University of Glasgow
Information for Celtic and Gaelic current students

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/cees:
90% of our research has been evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ in the latest Research Excellence Framework [2021]
Central & East European Studies has been taught for over 50 years at postgraduate level and over 10 years at undergraduate level at Glasgow.
We bring together innovative and, in some cases, unique expertise in the processes of socio-economic, socio-cultural and socio-political transformation in central and eastern Europe throughout the 20th and 21st centuries.
Study with us, and you can learn from staff who have lived and researched in their countries of expertise.
Our flexible range of degree programme combinations can include the study of:
QS World University Rankings [Modern Languages]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/chemistry:
99% of our research has been evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ in the latest Research Excellence Framework [2021]
Complete University Guide [Chemistry]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Chemistry]
QS World University Rankings [Chemistry]
Chemistry at Glasgow combines superb facilities with world-leading research groups covering all aspects of chemistry as well as the interfaces with biology, materials science and physics.
The University has fostered the talents of four Nobel Prize winners in chemistry.
If you study with us, you will benefit from more than 260 years of excellence in research and teaching.
Glasgow's Chemistry research is currently making a world-changing impact in areas such as chemical biology, chemical photonics and energy conversion and storage.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/civilengineering:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Civil Engineering]
Complete University Guide [Civil Engineering]
Guardian University Guide [Civil Engineering]
Study Civil Engineering at Glasgow and you will be taught by staff who are leading researchers in their fields.
Our course content reflects state-of-the-art understanding, relevant to future challenges for civil engineering industry and the profession.
The University of Glasgow has a long history of research in civil engineering.
The UK's first Chair of Civil Engineering was established at the University in 1840 and early occupants such as William J.
M.
Rankine set a research ethos that has endured.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/classics:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Classics & Ancient History]
Times Higher Education World University Rankings [Arts and Humanties]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/comparativeliterature:
Guardian University Guide [English]
Complete University Guide [English]
QS World University Rankings [English Language & Literature]
Comparative literature is the study of "literature without walls".
It ranges across cultural and national frontiers, time periods, languages, genres, and even across the boundaries between literature and the other arts.
If you want to study comparative literature, you’ll need intellectual curiosity, an open mind and the courage to confront unknown cultures and unfamiliar writers.
Our students gain transferable skills such as:
You could also have the opportunity to study a foreign language (even as a beginner) as part of the curriculum.
Our courses can form a Joint Honours degree with a wide range of other subjects available in the College of Arts & Humanities and the College of Social Sciences.
Languages taught include:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/computing:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Computer Science]
Complete University Guide [Computer Science]
Guardian University Guide [Computer Science & Information Systems]
In 1957, Glasgow became the first university in Scotland to get an electronic computer.
Since then, we have built a reputation for innovation and excellence in computing science.
Today, our School of Computing Science is one of the foremost in the UK.
We set ourselves the highest standards in research, research-led learning and teaching.
In particular, we excel at research and teaching at the intersection of theoretical and applied Computing.
A deep theoretical understanding underpins our undergraduate programmes.
Study with us and you will benefit from our strong links with industry.
You will graduate well-placed for a career with a range of companies across the UK, Europe and the world.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/creativewriting:
Our postgraduate taught and research-led writing courses are among the most challenging and popular in Britain, and have helped launch the career of a number of successful writers including Anne Donovan, Louise Welsh, Rodge Glass, Jen Hadfield, Zoe Strachan, Luke Brown, Laura Marney, Rachel Seiffert, William Letford and many others.
Founded by Indian-born Scottish author Leela Soma, the Kavya Prize aims to celebrate published work and new writing by Scotland’s ethnically diverse communities.
Discover more and apply.
Find out more about Creative Writing at Glasgow, our history and some of the writers we have worked with.
Creative Writing staff at the University of Glasgow.
Read profiles of some of our alumni.
Our visiting speaker programme is open to the public.
We have played host to many prominent writers in recent years.
For further information about Creative Writing, please email:
critstudies-pgenquiries@glasgow.ac.uk
or phone:
+44 (0) 141 330 8372
Alternatively, contact details for members of staff can be found at:
www.gla.ac.uk/subjects/creativewriting/ourstaff/

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/datascienceai:
‌The University of Glasgow is carving a world-class reputation as experts in data science and artificial intelligence.
We have more than than 90 academics and PhD students active in information retrieval, human-computer interaction, computational inference, spatio-temporal models and visualisation.
Our sought-after data science practitioners apply machine learning algorithms to numbers, text, images, video, audio, and more to produce AI systems which perform tasks that ordinarily require human intelligence.
In turn, these systems generate insights which analysts and business users can translate into tangible business value in areas as diverse as environmental monitoring, technology, media and consumer products, fundamental science, systems biology, neuro-imaging and urban systems.
The Glasgow Representation and Information Learning Lab aims to develop new methods for machine understanding of natural language text and data
Our SOCIAL Centre for Doctoral training is developing the next generation of experts in artificial social intelligence

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/dentistry:
95% of our research has been evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ in the latest Research Excellence Framework [2021]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Dentistry]
Complete University Guide [Dentistry]
Guardian University Guide [Dentistry]
Shanghai Ranking's Global [Dentistry & Oral Sciences]
The Glasgow Dental Hospital & School was established in 1879.
It is the second largest dental school in the UK.
We offer comprehensive modern facilities for patient care, student clinical practice and training, and for education and research in dental and oral diseases and disorders.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/economicsocialhistory:
The University of Glasgow hosts the largest group of economic and social historians in Scotland.
We are internationally recognised for research excellence in modern economic and social history, with exceptional strength in business and financial history, the history of medicine and social and gender history.
Our teaching is consistently ranked by students as among the best in the University.
Study with us, and you can benefit from flexible degree programmes, small class sizes, an excellent range of library and archival resources and a supportive environment for learning.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/economics:
Economics at Glasgow continues a distinguished record that dates back to Adam Smith, who was a Professor at the University in the 18th century and is widely renowned as the father of modern economics.
Today we have international expertise in:
Staff research directly informs our teaching, which means that if you study with us, you can benefit from up-to-date degree programmes that touch on the key theoretical and policy issues of the day.
Postgraduate taught programmes at the Adam Smith Business School are offered by two teaching centres
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Economics]
Complete University Guide [Economics]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/education:
Discover our CPD opportunities:
Educational studies at Glasgow brings together national and international expertise in all aspects of learning, from pre-5 to adult continuing education.
Our areas of specialist knowledge include:
We also have leading expertise in:
Our extensive links with schools, local authorities and the Scottish Executive mean that if you choose to study with us, you can benefit from degree programmes that are based on the most up-to-date research, helping you to further your career.
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Education]
Complete University Guide [Education]
QS World University Rankings [Education & Training]
Times Higher Education World University Rankings [Education Studies]
Researchers at the University of Glasgow focus on addressing poverty-related educational inequality through the School Improvement Partnership Programme.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/electronicsandelectricalengineering:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Electrical & Electronic Engineering]
Complete University Guide [Electrical & Electronic Engineering]
The University of Glasgow has been delivering world-class engineering education and research since 1840.
Our electronics & nanoscale engineering research addresses a broad range of socially and industrially important applications through our many partnerships in academia, industry and government bodies.
Our research areas include:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/engineering:
Find out more about our Engineering subject areas:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/englishlanguage:
English Language & Linguistics at the University of Glasgow offers expertise in:
In 2017 we were awarded a Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher Education, the highest accolade for any higher education institution, for our work on the Historical Thesaurus of English .
We also have access to an extensive interdisciplinary network, linking us to a wide range of subjects, both in the Colleges of Arts & Humanities and Social Sciences and beyond.
Study with us and you will work closely with academics considered leaders in their fields, and you will benefit from our excellent facilities.
Our University Library is one of the most significant in the UK, including a world-class collection of manuscripts and early printed books.
Special facilities include a phonetics laboratory with a recording studio and acoustic analysis software, made available to our undergraduate honours and postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/englishliterature:
For 160 years, Glasgow has been a leading national and international centre for the study of literatures in English.
We are proud of this history but also focused on the future of English Literature.
Our students at undergraduate and postgraduate level undertake research-led courses taught by academics at the forefront of the discipline.
From early modern drama to modern children’s literature; from contemporary ecological fiction, to the American novel, to postcolonial writing, English Literature at Glasgow offers cutting-edge programmes that will stretch you intellectually and help you to develop practical skills for your future career.
The current Head of English Literature is Stephen.Burn@glasgow.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/environment:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Geography & Environmental Science]
Guardian University Guide [Geography]
Complete University Guide [Geography & Environmental Science]
ShanghaiRanking's Global [Geography]
QS World University Rankings [Geography]
Karen Cameron [Lecturer in Biogeochemistry] studies how climate change effects the microorganisms and ecosystems of Arctic environments.
Our Centre for Sustainable Solutions enables individuals, communities and organisations to act towards a sustainable future through education, research and partnership.
It supports interdisciplinary, cross-campus and cross-sectoral solutions to climate change.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/filmtelevision:
In the vibrant media context of Glasgow, you will take a critical approach to the study of film and television, including their aesthetics, their audiences and industry practices.
The programme includes the historical, theoretical and practical study of screen production, as well as guest lectures from practitioners and policy makers in the creative industries.
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Drama, Dance & Cinematics]
Complete University Guide [Drama, Dance & Cinematics]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/ges:
We take an integrated approach to the study of geography and earth science at Glasgow, bringing together internationally-leading expertise in physical and human geography, earth science, and geomatics.
Our collaboration with the  gives us access to cutting edge equipment and specialist expertise, and our degree programmes are informed by our strong research base.
This means that if you choose to study with us, you can gain a range of transferable skills valuable for your career.
Guardian University Guide [Earth & Marine Sciences]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/healthwellbeing:
We have a strong community of postgraduate taught and research students working alongside world-renowned interdisciplinary scientists, social scientists, economists, statisticians and clinical investigators.
Our teaching is research-led and delivered by research-active staff.
We offer flexible programme structures, allowing for breadth of course choice as well as specialisms that allow students to focus on their particular interests.
Our School of Health & Wellbeing is an interdisciplinary institute that crosses the College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences and the College of Social Sciences.
It's mission is to prevent disease, improve health and wellbeing, and reduce inequalities: locally, nationally and globally.
We are a global leader in research into population health and health inequalities.
Our research brings together academic leaders from public health, medicine, epidemiology, psychology and health data science to address some of the world's greatest health challenges.
Research has shown that access to green space may significantly reduce the gap in mental health wellbeing and mortality between richer and poorer people.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/history:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [History]
Complete University Guide [History]
QS World University Rankings [History]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/historyofart:
Guardian University Guide [History of art]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [History of Art, Architecture & Design]
Studying with us means world-leading art scholars will be your teachers.
Our staff are experts in all major European art historical periods.
From Antiquity, the Middle-Ages and Renaissance, to Romanticism, Realism, Modernism, and contemporary Art.
We also have specialist knowledge in:
Studying at Glasgow also means you'll be living in a city renowned for its inspirational and diverse art scene.
We have an art gallery on campus and collaborative links with Glasgow museums.
As a result, you will gain hands-on experience and develop many practical skills as part of your programme .
Our extensive resources include:
The University has major, externally funded collaborative research projects with other national institutions, including:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/infectionimmunity:
The University of Glasgow is home to one of the UK’s leading centres for the study of pathogens of medical and veterinary importance.
We are key contributors to the  and the Scottish Infection Research Network, with access to state-of-the-art applied genomics, proteomics and imaging facilities.
We possess world-leading expertise in microbiology and parasitology.
Discover some of our world-leading research in virology, parasitology and microbiology.
Tue, 26 Jan 2021 08:00:00 GMT
The MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research (CVR) is at the heart of COVID-19 research response in Scotland and the UK
Glasgow is collaborating with other universities to tackle this devastating parasitic disease.
Our researchers have adopted an interdisciplinary approach to tackle this neglected tropical disease in Uganda

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/informationstudies:
Information Studies at Glasgow offers an exciting programme of research and teaching on the creation, management, and use of information in the digital age.
Our areas of speciality are:
Our rich environment for practice-based teaching and research is immersed in heritage.
And provides first hand experience in ways that knowledge has been created, preserved and communicated from the past to the digital age.
Our facilities include:
Our staff are active in a significant programme of interconnected research with international partners, clustered around three key areas:
Our graduates have a high rate of employability.
and our courses are accredited by the major UK professional associations for archives and library professionals.
Graduates of our MSc in Information Management & Preservation are eligible to be accredited by both the Archives & Records Association and CILIP (Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals).
This provides valuable professional recognition in both the archive and library fields.
We are the only Museum Studies programme in the UK accredited by CILIP.
For 2025 our brand new MSc in Library & Information Studies is being launched, and this is also being submitted for accreditation to CILIP.
We are part of the international network of iSchools, which provides opportunities for our students and alumni.
We are home to the Digital Preservation Coalition (DPC) and work closely with this organisation for both teaching and research.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/law:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Law]
Guardian University Guide [Law]
Complete University Guide [Law]
Times Higher Education World University Rankings [Law]
QS World University Rankings [Law & Legal Studies]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/management:
Management at Glasgow is part of our triple accredited Adam Smith Business School.
Our aim is to help creative thinkers, managers and executives to realise their potential by stimulating interest and reflection, heightening awareness, and expanding horizons.
Our working environment is collaborative, collegiate and cross-disciplinary.
The result is research that is world-leading, innovative, significant, rigorous and featured in respected academic journals.
Our research contributes to theoretical advancement as well as being relevant to management practice and teaching.
Guardian University Guide [Business & Management]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Business, Management & Marketing]
Complete University Guide [Business & Management Studies]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/mathematics:
100% of our research has been evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ in the latest Research Excellence Framework [2021]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Mathematics]
Guardian University Guide [Mathematics]
Complete University Guide [Mathematics]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/mechanicalengineering:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Mechanical Engineering]
Complete University Guide [Mechanical Engineering]
Shanghai Ranking's Global [Mechanical Engineering]
Mechanical Engineering is a core engineering discipline that has a long history in the University of Glasgow dating back to the 1760s with academic contributors such as James Watt.
The School of Engineering has extensive contacts with industrial partners who contribute to several of their taught courses through active teaching, curriculum development, and panel discussion.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/media:
QS World University Rankings [Communication & Media Studies]
Times Higher Education World University Rankings [Social Sciences]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/medicine:
Through our major research areas we are tackling Scotland’s biggest killers: cardiovascular disease and cancer.
Our range of activity begins with research into genes and progresses to clinical trials.
This provides a ‘cell to cure’ approach focused on fundamental understanding, health improvement, disease prevention and cure.
Our outstanding research was recognised in the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF) from 2021 when 97% of our research was evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent.
At the forefront of clinical interventions and discovery, we are one of the largest and most prestigious medical schools in Europe.
This means that if you study with us, you can benefit from our outstanding facilities and pioneering teaching methods, including the best in clinical experience.
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Medicine]
Complete University Guide [Medicine]
Guardian University Guide [Medicine]
QS World University Rankings [Medicine]
ShanghaiRanking's Global [Clinical Medicine]
Discover Glasgow's world-changing medical research.
Researchers at Glasgow are at the forefront of global efforts to improve the treatment of psoriatic arthritis and have pioneered a breakthrough for 1.25 million patients.
University of Glasgow research has been instrumental in the treatment of heart failure, reducing mortality and improving quality of life for patients worldwide.
Wed, 05 Feb 2020 18:00:00 GMT
A collaborative global scientific effort, which includes a group of researchers from UofG, has completed the most comprehensive study of whole cancer genomes to date
The Imaging Centre of Excellence is a pioneering hub developing ground-breaking scientific research into real benefits for patients with chronic disease.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/modernlanguages:
We offer expertise, teaching and supervision in a diverse range of fields within French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.
Our degree programmes are designed to help you develop full proficiency in speaking, understanding, reading, writing and appreciating languages and culture.
Our leading research and teaching ranges from the Middle Ages to the contemporary period, and includes expertise in:
Our expertise embraces a wide variety of specialisms across the modern period including:
Our expertise ranges across topics including:
Our teaching and research covers material from across the Portuguese-speaking world, including:
We are a centre of excellence in the field, with diverse and multi-disciplinary expertise in:
We teach and research the languages, literatures and cultures of Spain, Latin America and the wider Spanish-speaking world, including areas like:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/molecularbiosciences:
Times Higher Education World University Rankings [Life Sciences]
The University of Glasgow is home to expertise in a wide range of contemporary integrative biology, from molecule to organism.
Our strengths include:
We are supported by a world-class technology base.
This includes next-generation sequencing, microarrays, proteomics and metabolomics through the Sir Henry Wellcome Functional Genomics Facility and the Scottish National Centre for Metabolomics.
Our broad scope of work involves collaborations both within the University’s College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences, and with mathematicians, computer scientists and engineers across and beyond the University.
This means that we can adapt our approach to strategic priorities as opportunities arise.
We continue to be successful in attracting funding from:
We believe in multidisciplinary working.
Our research varies from protein trafficking to plant circadian rhythms and from the structure of membrane proteins to cell engineering.
This research informs our excellent postgraduate training programme.
So if you're a researcher in the early stage of your career and you’d like to join us as a Fellow, you’ll find a range of opportunities available.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/museum:
The oldest public museum in Scotland
A venue to gain real experience in managing collections, object handling, and public engagement

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/music:
Music at Glasgow is a lively and collaborative community of staff and students from around the world.
We embrace both traditional and innovative forms of music scholarship, viewing music as playing a vital role in a wider social, cultural and political context.
Our research spans five main, interconnected areas - historical musicology, performance practices, composition and sonic arts, the music industries and ethnomusicology - each of which informs our degree courses at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Music]
Complete University Guide [Music]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/nursing:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Nursing]
Guardian University Guide [General Nursing]
Complete University Guide [Nursing]
QS World University Rankings [Nursing]
Nursing at Glasgow is committed to evidence based practice and translational research that optimises patient care and service delivery.
Our research activity is multi-professional and patient-centred, placing strong emphasis on patient and public involvement.
Our collaborative and transdisciplinary programmes of research and scholarship focus on the themes of:
We have an active postgraduate research community and offer MSc (Research) and PhD programmes on a full or part time basis.
At undergraduate level we offer an Honours Degree (4 years) leading to Registration in Nursing.
Our students have rated the School as the Best in the UK and our highly valued graduates have excellent employment prospects.
We have access to excellent facilities and a wide range of world renowned experts in their subjects.
A strong science component, integrated with caring and leadership skills and strongly underpinned by research is a unique feature of our programme.
We have excellent relationships with clinical staff across NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde where students have clinical placements.
The School offers a flexible programme of multi-professional postgraduate courses that may be taken individually or towards a postgraduate certificate, diploma or masters degree.
The MSc in Health Care programme is designed to develop the knowledge and skills required to lead advances in patient care and service delivery.
Awards in various specialist fields are available, including the unique Postgraduate Certificate in Healthcare Chaplaincy.
Multi-professional Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses are offered in Lymphoedema and Burns and Plastic Surgery Care and attract participants from across the UK.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/onehealth:
We seek to improve human and animal health by understanding the complex biological and social, economic, political and environmental contexts in which these interlocking health issues exist.
We address international and national One Health questions through our interdisciplinary collaborations.
Researchers from human and veterinary clinical medicine are closely integrated with life scientists and social and physical scientists to deliver world-changing research.
We work both across the Global South with a focus on sub-Saharan Africa, particularly Tanzania and Malawi, as well as in Scotland and the rest of the UK.
One Health is also represented at undergraduate and postgraduate level with several progammes containing a One Health component, in addition to our specialist One Health MSc.
Discover some of Glasgow's world-changing One Health research.
Our scientists are conducting pioneering research on the malaria mosquito.
The Outer Hebridean islands of Uist are a hotspot for Lyme disease.
Glasgow scientists are undertaking research to find out why.
See more One Health research

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/parasitology:
Discover some of Glasgow's world-changing parasitology research.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/pharmacology:
We have links with pharmaceutical companies such as AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline and Pfizer.
Students may have the opportunity to undertake work placements at these companies as well as benefit from guest lectures from their staff.
Our postgraduate programme in Clinical Pharmacology is one of the few UK postgraduate programmes to cover clinical pharmacology in sufficient detail to allow you to make an informed choice about pursuing it as a career.
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Pharmacology & Pharmacy]
Guardian University Guide [Pharmacy & pharmacology]
Complete University Guide [Pharmacology & Pharmacy]
QS World University Rankings [Pharmacy & Pharmacology]
Shanghai Ranking's Global [Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/philosophy:
Complete University Guide [Philosophy]
QS World University Rankings [Philosophy]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/physics:
We are proud of our record in both research and teaching.
For several years the School has ranked in the top quartile of Russell Group UK Physics Departments in terms of our research income per academic FTE, and for many years the School has consistently scored highly for overall student satisfaction in the National Student Survey and other student barometers.
Our undergraduate and taught postgraduate courses and degree programmes are accredited by the Institute of Physics.
Studying with us offers you a fundamental understanding of the way the universe works, brings you to the forefront of technology, and provides the opportunity to work in world-leading research groups.
Our outstanding research was recognised in the latest REF (2021) when 99% of our research was evaluated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’.
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Physics & Astronomy]
Complete University Guide [Physics & Astronomy]
ShanghaiRanking's Global [Physics]
Discover some of Glasgow's world-changing Physics & Astronomy research.
We were at the heart of one of the most exciting discoveries of the century, changing how we observe the universe.
A profile of Glasgow's advanced facility for nano- and micro-fabrication.
Find out more: Glasgow Research Beacons: The Nano & Quantum World

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/politics:
Glasgow's distinguished history of teaching politics began in the 1760s, when Adam Smith gave a series of lectures on justice, police, revenue and arms at the University.
Today we are a leading centre for teaching and researching Politics and International Relations in the UK.
We comprise more than 40 teaching and research staff and are distinctive for our concentrations of expertise in:
If you study with us, you will learn from a diverse, international community of researchers who are leaders in their fields.
Our teaching is research-led but student-centred.
You will learn not only how to understand and analyse politics, but also how to develop your analytical and communication skills, defend rigorous arguments and engage in constructive debate.
Guardian University Guide [International Relations]
Guardian University Guide [Politics]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Politics]
Complete University Guide [Politics]
QS World University Rankings [Politics]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/psychologyneuroscience:
Guardian University Guide [Psychology]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Psychology]
Complete University Guide [Psychology]
Times Higher Education World University Rankings [Psychology]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/quantumnanotechnology:
Find out about Quantum & Nanotechnology research at Glasgow

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/scottishliterature:
The University of Glasgow hosts the only academic unit in the world exclusively dedicated to the teaching and research of Scottish Literature.
Established in 1971, Scottish Literature is regarded as a world-leading research unit.
Our teaching provision which covers the range of Scottish literature from the 14th century to the present day.
Our Centre for Robert Burns Studies is dedicated to Scotland's national bard, and we are involved in all aspects of Scotland’s literary heritage.
Staff members are active within the wider world of Scottish literature at home and abroad.
Many of us are involved in key editions of major Scottish writers (notably Robert Burns, James Hogg, Walter Scott and Hugh MacDiarmid) and many have published major critical texts on a wide range of Scottish literary subjects.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/sociology:
We are internationally recognised for research that is informed by theory and explored through observation, experience and experiment.
At the highest level, we contribute to academic and policy debates in:
Study with us, and you can learn from our innovative and rigorous research approach.
We have a unique combination of degrees to choose from, and we work to build employability into your learning, ensuring that you get the best possible head-start for your career after graduation.
Complete University Guide [Sociology]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Sociology]
Guardian University Guide [Sociology & Social Policy]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/sportsscience:
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Sports Science]
Guardian University Guide [Sports Science]
Complete University Guide [Sports Science]
The University of Glasgow is the leading university in the UK to study Sports Science.
We have state-of-the-art facilities to study the performance and health aspects of sport and exercise science, from the whole body to the molecular level.
These include advanced exercise laboratories, metabolic investigation suites and a molecular biochemistry lab.
The University also has close links with a number of regional/national sporting bodies and professional sporting clubs.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/theatre:
Our outward-looking, dynamic subject area has close connections with the theatre industry, providing opportunities to learn from and work with practitioners and organisations of national and international standing.
Our courses are grounded in a deep critical engagement with a range of forms and practices of theatre.
We combine historical, theoretical and practice-based approaches to learning in a degree programme which counts among its visionary alumni multi-award-winning director, John Tiffany; award-winning comedian, Richard Gadd and Artistic Director and Chief Executive of the National Theatre of Scotland, Jackie Wylie.
Guardian University Guide [Drama & dance]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/theology:
We are proud to be the oldest subject area at the University of Glasgow; taught since the foundation of the University in 1451.
This heritage is reflected in the valuable University Collections of historical texts and manuscripts which constitute a major resource for researchers and students.
But Theology and Religious Studies today is not only rooted in the past.
Some of the most crucial issues of our times concern ultimate meaning, ethics, spiritual values, and how human beings can live together peaceably and care for our planet.
The study of religious traditions offers deep insights into these concerns.
At Glasgow you can explore Christianity, Judaism, Islam, and Asian beliefs and traditions.
You can specialise in a specific tradition or take courses that explore a variety of faith perspectives.
You will be able to study biblical languages, investigate historical issues, and focus upon contemporary religious questions.
Vocational training is also provided in partnership with the Church of Scotland through Trinity College.
Whatever you study you will be supported by staff who are renowned in their fields and be part of a student community that is warm, open, and welcoming.
We are located at the heart of the University and have our own student common room and study facilities.
Most importantly, we pride ourselves on our hospitable and inclusive approach, which is reflected in high levels of student satisfaction.
Guardian University Guide [Theology & Religious Studies]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Theology & Religious Studies]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/tourism:
Our Tourism programmes are based at our beautiful campus in Dumfries, approximately 2 hours away from Glasgow.
The School of Social & Environmental Sustainability at the Dumfries Campus has undertaken innovative, cross-disciplinary research and teaching for 20 years.
As well as offering stunning scenery and recreation, the local landscape, attractions and heritage in Dumfries are an important real-life laboratory for teaching and research.
Conservation, tourism and community projects are all important to the region, culture and economy.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/translationstudies:
Translation Studies is an academic discipline that explores the practice, process and product of translation from both linguistic and cultural viewpoints.
At the University of Glasgow, students carry out hands-on translation work as well as exploring the discipline from a theoretical perspective.
Translation practice allows students to explore the features of different genres of text that generally fall into the following categories:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/urbanstudies:
Urban Studies and Social Policy research division
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Social Policy]
Complete University Guide [Social Policy]
RTPI & RICS Accredited Programmes

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/veterinary:
Glasgow is a global centre for veterinary medicine excellence, attracting students, researchers and clinicians from around the world.
Our School of Biodiversity, One Health & Veterinary Medicine has full accreditation from:
We provide an expert referral centre for animal owners and referring practitioners throughout the UK, via the:
Complete University Guide [Veterinary Medicine]
Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide [Veterinary Medicine]
QS World University Rankings [Veterinary Science]
ShanghaiRanking's Global [Veterinary Sciences]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught:
Refine by ALL SUBJECTS Accounting & Finance Aerospace Engineering Archaeology Biodiversity Biological & Biomedical Sciences Biomedical Engineering Business Cancer Sciences Cardiovascular & Metabolic Health Celtic & Gaelic Central & East European Studies Chemistry Civil Engineering Classics Comparative Literature Computing Science Creative Writing Data Science & Artificial Intelligence Dentistry Economic & Social History Economics Education Electronics & Electrical Engineering Engineering English Language & Linguistics English Literature Environment & Sustainability Film & Television Studies Geographical & Earth Sciences Health & Wellbeing Healthcare Technologies History History of Art Infection & Immunity Information Studies Law Management Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Media & Cultural Policy Medicine Modern Languages & Cultures Molecular Biosciences Museum Studies Music Nursing & Health Care One Health Parasitology Pharmacology Philosophy Physics & Astronomy Political & International Studies Psychology & Neuroscience Quantum & Nanotechnology Sociological & Cultural Studies Sports Science Statistics Teaching Theatre Studies Theology & Religious Studies Tourism Translation Studies Urban Studies & Social Policy Veterinary Medicine

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/degrees:
Refine by ALL SUBJECTS Accounting & Finance Aerospace Engineering Archaeology Biodiversity Biological & Biomedical Sciences Biomedical Engineering Business Cancer Sciences Cardiovascular & Metabolic Health Celtic & Gaelic Central & East European Studies Chemistry Civil Engineering Classics Comparative Literature Computing Science Data Science & Artificial Intelligence Dentistry Economic & Social History Economics Education Electronics & Electrical Engineering Engineering English Language & Linguistics English Literature Environment & Sustainability Film & Television Studies Geographical & Earth Sciences Health & Wellbeing Healthcare Technologies History History of Art Infection & Immunity Information Studies Law Life Sciences Management Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Media & Cultural Policy Medicine Modern Languages & Cultures Molecular Biosciences Music Nursing & Health Care One Health Pharmacology Philosophy Physics & Astronomy Political & International Studies Psychology & Neuroscience Quantum & Nanotechnology Scottish Literature Sociological & Cultural Studies Sports Science Statistics Teaching Theatre Studies Theology & Religious Studies Urban Studies & Social Policy Veterinary Medicine

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/entryrequirements:
Please see the individual programme pages in the degree programme A-Z for entry requirements for each degree.
Pre-entry programmes and adjusted offers to support your application to Glasgow.
Access to Higher Education courses at the University of Glasgow provide a route into certain undergraduate degree programmes for those who don’t meet the standard entry criteria.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/choosingyourdegree:
Glasgow is one of the world’s top universities, which means we can offer you a world-class degree.
With a fantastic range of subjects, you should be able to find a degree programme that matches your interests.
The subject(s) you choose will determine the type of degree programme you will take and how long you will study for.
The main undergraduate degrees awarded at Glasgow are as follows:
Undergraduate degrees A-Z
At Glasgow (and the other three ancient universities in Scotland), an Honours level degree in the Arts is called a Master of Arts (MA) and an Honours level degree in the Social Sciences a Master of Arts (Social Sciences).
These should not be confused with the Master of Arts offered by some universities in England, which refers to a postgraduate qualification.
Our flexible  degrees are designed to allow part-time students access to a wide range of Arts or Science subjects and ultimately graduate with a MA Arts or BSc Science degree from the University of Glasgow.
If you have exceptional A-level or Advanced Higher grades it’s possible to enter directly into Year 2 or follow a faster route advanced entry for some programmes.
Access Glasgow: Pre-entry programmes and adjusted offers to support your application

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/howtoapply:
Full-time students must apply through the Universities & Colleges Admissions Service ( UCAS ).
The University will accept Centre or Teacher Assessed Grades in lieu of exam results.
SQA applicants who are eligible for our Widening Participation programmes are encouraged to participate in one or more of these programmes, including Summer School, to support your application and the transition to higher education.
International students to Arts, Engineering, Law, Nursing, Science, and Social Sciences can also apply using The Common Application : however, if applying to more than one UK university, we recommend using UCAS.
Applications to Dentistry, Education, Medicine, and Veterinary Medicine must be made through UCAS.
We do not usually accept any applications after these deadlines.
It's your responsibility to ensure the accuracy of your application before submission.
Requests to correct application content, change degree programme or change college of entry, will not be accepted after these deadlines.
This policy is in place to ensure fairness and consistency to all applicants, and no exceptions will be made.
Tuition fee status is determined by nationality and country of ordinary residence.
If you are a UK citizen living outside the UK for over three years, it is likely that you will have to pay the international fee.
If you are unsure of your fee status, it is strongly advised that you apply by the January deadline.
For information about your fee status, please see: Fee status policy .
We will usually respond before the end of March , but a decision may arrive up to early May  Specific detail on when to expect our decision, based on your programme, will be advised in our first communication to you, our Acknowledgement email.
If your qualifications meet our requirements and we believe you could benefit from study at Glasgow, you will receive an unconditional offer.
If you haven’t yet gained the necessary passes for entry to your chosen subject(s), we may look at the qualifications you are taking when you apply and make you a conditional offer.
An interview will be part of the selection process for: Community Development, Dentistry, History of Art & Art-world Practice, Medicine, Music, Nursing, Teaching, and Veterinary Medicine & Surgery.
You may also be interviewed if you’re applying for entry into Year 2 in any subject.
For Dentistry, Nursing and Veterinary Medicine programmes we are unable to consider applications for deferred entry.
In other cases deferring may be possible but it’s not granted automatically.
Transfers from another University to the University of Glasgow will only be considered under the following circumstances:
International students to Arts, Engineering, Law, Nursing, Science, and Social Sciences can also apply using The Common Application: however, if applying to more than one UK university, we recommend using UCAS.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees:
Fee and funding information for Scottish students
Fee and funding information for students from England, Wales and Northern Ireland
Scholarships & funding

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/accommodation:
Our Student Listeners are just one of the many support systems that we have for our residents
UofGLiving is our one-stop channel where you can stay in the loop about the residences, life in halls, events and the latest offers to save you money across campus!
Find out more at www.uofgliving.co.uk
Find out why we believe that staying in University accommodation is the best option for you.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/offerholders:
These pages will help guide you through the undergraduate admissions process and what to do next in order to accept your offer, as well as how to prepare for your first few weeks at Glasgow.
If your offer is unconditional, you've already satisfied all of our entry requirements.
If we have made you a conditional offer, we need you to meet conditions, usually certain grades in your tests or exams.
Once you have met these conditions your offer will become unconditional.
Find out more: UCAS, replying to offers
Make an enquiry
Join our official community and meet other future UofG students before you arrive.
Make friends, join groups and swap tips!
Check your inbox for your official invite.
If you haven't received one, email us at unibuddy@glasgow.ac.uk
Understanding your offer from us
Your next steps
Life in Scotland's largest city
Support for the transition to University
Thursday 1 May, Online Event
Thank you to all who joined the online event!
You can continue to access selected session recordings and on-demand content on our event webpage.
View recordings & on-demand content
These sessions will cover the first steps for anyone from the UK or Ireland thinking about undergraduate study.
These sessions will introduce undergraduate study at the University of Glasgow to international students.
Join us to hear about student life in Glasgow from a current UofG student, covering everything from accommodation to clubs and societies.
Get to know our main campus with this tour from UofG student Vaish, showing you around some of our most popular buildings.
Explore the facilities on offer in UofG Sport’s Stevenson Building, the home of indoor sport and active lifestyle on our main campus, with this guided tour.
Find out what life at UofG is really like, from those who know best!
Check out the latest vlogs from our student content creators on YouTube
Check out the latest blogs from our student Unibuddies
Join our students as they show you around the facilities in some of our most popular halls of residence, including their own flats plus the social and study spaces on offer.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/undergraduate/opendays:
Wednesday 3 September, 9am - 3pm Gilmorehill Campus
Saturday 4 October, 11am - 3pm Dumfries Campus
Saturday 18 October, 9am - 3pm Gilmorehill Campus
See What's On At Our Open Day On Wednesday 3 September
Saturday 4 October 2025, Dumfries Campus
Join us at our stunning campus in Dumfries to find out more about the range of subjects offered at the School of Social & Environmental Sustainability.
Book now
From campus tours to insightful conversations, take a quick look at the experiences awaiting you at our Open Days!
A glimpse into the vibrant atmosphere at our Open Days!
Discover what makes the University of Glasgow special.
Join our students Harriet, Ewan and Natasha as they take you on your own private tour of the University of Glasgow main campus, located in the West End of Glasgow.
Take a 360 tour of the University of Glasgow's Dumfries Campus.
See our amazing facilities including a 25m swimming pool with sauna & steam room, REVOLVE indoor cycling studio, Pulse cardiovascular suite & 2 squash courts.
Discover what life at UofG accommodation is like through guided tours led by current students.
They'll take you around the facilities, including their own flats, as well as shared social, laundry, and study spaces.
Get to Know Glasgow with our seven-step guide podcast, giving you an insider's look at student life in the city today.
Tune in now!
Get firsthand insights into what studying and life at UofG is all about!
Chat to our staff and students on Unibuddy

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/campustours/prospectivestudents:
We are delighted to be offering campus tours for potential UofG students.
The tour will take our visitors on a guided route around our beautiful Main Campus (Gilmorehill), showing you all the UofG campus has to offer you as a potential new student.
To allow us to maintain tour group sizes we limit booking to additonal 3 guests per booking.
If more than 3 people are planning to visit please complete a separate additional registration.
Book your 2025 Campus Tour
Please Note:
If you or a member of your party will require any assistance during your visit, please give details on the booking form, and someone will be in touch to discuss your individual needs.
You may also contact us by email at campustours@glasgow.ac.uk .
The UCAS Embargo period for 2025 has now commenced so we are unable to arrange any ad-hoc tours or respond to emails from applicants during this time.
Further information on UCAS Embargo dates can be found below.
There are 2 embargoes relating to the largest UK school examination results periods:
If you are planning a visit to the University and no tours are available on your preferred date you can make use of our Self-guided tour .
Useful Information
Visit our Dumfries Campus
Other Opportunities to Visit Us
Prospective student campus tours are led by one of our current UofG Students.
The tour will take you around our main Gilmorehill campus and take between 45-60 minutes.
As most of the tour takes place outdoors please dress for the weather and for walking around campus, which includes some steps and uphill areas.
Being of reasonable fitness for the tour is recommended (portions of the tour are uphill) but we will always do our utmost to make a tour as accessible as possible to those who may have reduced mobility.
Please get in touch with us at campustours@glasgow.ac.uk to discuss any assistance you may need.
Assistance dogs are also permitted in all areas of the University.
On the tour, our guides will be happy to take a break to let you get your breath back, take photos or ask questions.
The tour is intended for prospective students interested in studying at the University of Glasgow.
Your guide will talk to you about some of the University’s history, but they will mainly focus on what our campus can offer students.
They’ll give you an insight on what it’s like to be a UofG student, focusing on themes including student support services, the student unions, the library and other study spaces, clubs and societies, sport, and student life in Glasgow.
All of our Student Ambassadors are very friendly and will be happy to answer questions throughout the duration of the tour.
Please note this tour is for the Gilmorehill campus only.
Our School of Veterinary Medicine and outdoor sports facilities are situated at our Garscube campus:
Postgraduate students are advised to undertake a campus tour as it will cover areas all students here at UofG use.
However, there is some areas of our campus that are specifically for PG students which isn’t included.
If you’ve got time, we recommend checking these areas whilst you are here:
Advanced Research Centre (ARC)
Adam Smith Building & PGT Hub
The Gilchrist Postgraduate Club
Unfortunately, we are unable to include tours of student residences.
However, we have included below, 360 videos on some of our residences.
We recommend watching these before or after your tour.
They are very comprehensive and include information on facilities available and accommodation support.
For more information on student accommodation at UofG including profiles on all of our residences, application process and contact details, please see either Undergraduate accommodation or Postgraduate Accommodation
Join our students Harriet, Amy and Ewan as they take you on your very own private tour of the University of Glasgow.
Set in 85 acres of beautiful parkland, the School of Social & Environmental Sustainability is situated in an ideal location on the Crichton University Campus in Dumfries.
Watch our Campus Tour video guided by our Student Ambassador, Adam.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/undergraduate/onlineinfosessions/regionalfairs:
Meet us in your local area by attending one of the following Higher Education Fairs -
Thursday 28 August 2025
UCAS - Forth Valley
Tuesday 2 September 2025
UCAS - Edinburgh
Tuesday 9 September 2025
Wednesday 10 September 2025
UCAS - Lanarkshire
Thursday 11 September 2025
UCAS - Ayrshire
Wednesday 17 September 2025
UCAS - Moray
Thursday 18 September 2025
UCAS - Inverness
Tuesday 23 September
UCAS - Fife
Tuesday 30 September
UCAS - Dundee
Friday 10 October
UK University Search - Brighton
Tuesday 14 October
UCAS - Twickenham
Wednesday 15 October
UK University Search - London

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/choosingyourdegree/advancedentry:
Applicants who achieve exceptional grades in their Advanced Highers, A-levels or International Baccalaureate may be considered for advanced entry, meaning that an Honours degree can be completed in three years instead of the normal four years, or four years for five-year integrated Masters programmes.
Not all joint honours subjects are available for advanced entry and applications to joint honours programmes will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Choose point of entry 2nd year on your UCAS application to indicate you wish to be considered for advanced entry.
This list shows the degree programmes where this option exists.
Indicative grades that must be attained in order to be considered are shown on programme pages.
Applicants who require further information should contact the Admissions team .
Refine by ALL SUBJECTS Aerospace Engineering Archaeology Biodiversity Biological & Biomedical Sciences Biomedical Engineering Cardiovascular & Metabolic Health Celtic & Gaelic Central & East European Studies Chemistry Civil Engineering Classics Comparative Literature Computing Science Electronics & Electrical Engineering Engineering English Language & Linguistics English Literature Environment & Sustainability Film & Television Studies Geographical & Earth Sciences Healthcare Technologies History History of Art Infection & Immunity Information Studies Law Life Sciences Mechanical Engineering Media & Cultural Policy Medicine Modern Languages & Cultures Molecular Biosciences Music One Health Pharmacology Philosophy Physics & Astronomy Psychology & Neuroscience Quantum & Nanotechnology Scottish Literature Sports Science Theatre Studies Theology & Religious Studies Veterinary Medicine
While the MA Arts single honours programmes listed allow advanced entry, each application for advanced entry to a joint honours MA Arts programme is considered on a case-by-case basis.
Each application for advanced entry is considered on a case by case basis.
For further information on requirements, please email: socsci-ma@glasgow.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/choosingyourdegree/fasterroute:
The Science Faster Route offers focussed, high achieving candidates joining us straight from school the option to complete the Honours Degree in 3 years or MSci degree in 4 years.
The minimum grades required below using A Level criteria, and note that we do accept other qualifications including Advanced Highers and IB with equivalent grades.
Interested in the Faster Route but first want to check you are eligible?
Email our STEM Applicant Adviser for advice at scieng-comms@glasgow.ac.uk
The following STEM programmes include the option to enter in second year.
To apply, please apply via UCAS and state ‘2’ at the ‘entry point’ field of your selection.
Starting university was honestly an interesting experience, it was really scary but also exciting at the same time.
I initially thought that I'd have trouble making new friends but a lot of my coursemates are friendly, so I got along with them easily.
The university is huge and at first I couldn't really find my way around but after a few months I came to know almost every single shortcut like the palm of my hand.
The first term was quite challenging but manageable.
Studying definitely became easier once I got used to the teaching style.
There's also a lot of support available and the lab tutors are very helpful.
Deadlines can be stressful so I try to start my assignments as early as possible and I must say it's been going quite well for me.
Overall, I'm really enjoying university.
It's been a great experience and I've learnt a lot.
Manassanan, BSc (Hons) Computing Science – Faster Route
As a faster route student you will still embrace all university welcome activities for new students and Student Representative Council Welcome Week activities.
You are including within our accommodation guarantee for undergraduates and our STEM community deliver special transition activities for students entering Year 2.
As a Science Faster Route student and depending on your own circumstances you are eligible to be considered for the UK Excellence , Undergraduate Excellence , EU Welcome Award and Study STEM in Scotland Award , along with several others.
Please browse our Scholarship directory to see a full list of eligible awards open to your circumstances.
Meet our students on social, and find out more about science and engineering at Glasgow.
TikTok

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/blogs:
View our undergraduate blogs
View our postgraduate blogs
More blogs from our Unibuddies

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/gettoknowglasgow/findoutmore/gettoknowglasgowpodcast:
Listen and learn from the people who know it best: real UofG students.
In each episode, they’ll share their Glasgow journeys and top tips.
So you’ll know what it’s really like to be part of #TeamUofG.
Listen now on Spotify
Watch now on YouTube
Watch students Nyah, Kaitlin and Harriet share their experiences of studying at the University of Glasgow, hosted by Emily from UofG’s Student Recruitment team, who is also a former student.
Watch a clip from our latest episode, with UofG student Kaitlin sharing her tips about how to save money on campus by visiting the University’s Eco-Hub, where coffee is only 50p!
Watch undergraduate student Navya and postgraduate students Riddhi and Rohit share their experiences of studying at the University of Glasgow, hosted by Maneeta from UofG’s in-country team in India.
Watch undergraduate student Samantha and postgraduate student Anoosha share their experiences of studying at the University of Glasgow, hosted by Ashley from UofG’s in-country team in the USA.
Watch postgraduate students Nakita and Intan share their experiences of studying at the University of Glasgow, hosted by Alfin from UofG’s in-country team in Indonesia.
Watch undergraduate student Siyi and postgraduate students Estrella and Rong share their experiences of studying at the University of Glasgow (in Mandarin) hosted by Xinjing from UofG’s in-country team in China.
Listen now on WeChat
What’s student life at the University of Glasgow really like?
What do current University of Glasgow students think about accommodation in Glasgow?
Ash, Jachine, Danielle and Victor share their experiences of living in university student accommodation, private student accommodation and private flats in different areas around Glasgow, and share their top tips!
How easy is it find work in Glasgow, and is it possible to balance work with your studies?
Ash, Jachine, Danielle and Victor share their experiences of part-time work, internships, support from the UofG Careers Service, job opportunities within the University and lots more!
How do University of Glasgow students fund their studies, and what do they think about the cost of living in Glasgow?
Ash, Jachine, Danielle and Victor share their experiences of scholarships, funding, budgets, student discounts and share their top tips for saving money!
What support is provided for students at the University of Glasgow?
Ash, Jachine, Danielle and Victor share their experiences of accessing academic and careers support, using the Disability Service and the Students’ Representative Council, support for international students, and lots more!
What do current University of Glasgow students really think about the campus?
Ash, Jachine, Danielle and Victor discuss their favourite places on and around campus, from study spaces to cafes to gardens, the easiest ways to travel around, and the best places to take selfies!
Did you know that Glasgow was voted the friendliest and 2nd most affordable city in the world?
(Time Out, 2022)
Ash, Jachine, Danielle and Victor share their experiences of what Glasgow is really like as a city, from diversity and food options to transport, entertainment and the world-famous music scene…
Be guided through what you need to know about student life in Glasgow by UofG students.
At each step, you’ll find podcast episodes, videos and blogs.
Start exploring

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/qandas:
Watch one of our recent Q&A sessions with UofG staff and students to learn more about what life at Team UofG is really like.
Join staff from Admissions and Accommodation alongside current UofG students as they chat through applying to study at UofG through Clearing!
(Streamed live on 23rd July 2025).
Discover everything you need to know about Welcome Week, clubs and societies, sports teams, student support services, and more.
Plus, hear top tips on how to make the most of your time at the University of Glasgow!
(Streamed live on 20th August 2025).
Watch our undergraduate students Julia from Peru, Isabella from Germany and Anna from Scotland chat through everything from settling in at UofG to the best clubs and societies.
Our students were joined by Niall from External Relations.
(Streamed live on 1 May 2025).
Watch our undergraduate student ambassadors Anoosha from the USA and Maria from Spain chat through their top tips and favourite parts of student life at UofG (Streamed live on 5 June 2024).
Join staff from International Student Support, Student Representative Council and Student Support Officer team as they talk through the wide range of support available on arrival at UofG and throughout your studies.
(Streamed live on 20 June 2025).
Join Mark from Global Opportunities and current students Sam and Caitlin as they as they chat through their own experiences studying overseas and provide the inside track.
(Streamed live on 30th May 2025).
Join Maeve from Postgraduate Admissions and Mark from External Relations as they chat through your questions on obtaining a CAS, accepting your offer and lots more.
Join Ellen from Accommodation and Erik from Residence Life to find out everything you need to know about living in UofG accommodation.
(Streamed live on 26 February 2025).
Are you hoping to join the University of Glasgow and want to know more about next steps?
Watch Alice from UofG's External Relations chat through everything you need to know from important deadlines to accommodation (Streamed live on 21 January 2025).
Learn everything you need to know about your child or dependent joining UofG.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/learning:
From the moment you start your studies you’ll be taught by dedicated and passionate academics in a flexible and innovative learning environment.
To help you develop the ability to direct your own learning, you will experience a range of teaching methods:
Open daily from 7.15am to 2.00am with online access 24/7, our 12-storey library has one of the largest collections in Europe.
The James McCune Smith Learning Hub is an inspirational and diverse learning space, allowing undergraduate and postgraduate students access to advanced and useful learning spaces.
The £90m flagship building was the first to be completed as part of our campus development.
State-of-the-art teaching facilities, with flexible study spaces and interactive teaching for students, help to create a more immersive learning experience.
We have advisers who can help you develop your academic skills by offering classes and one-to-one consultations on essay writing, exam preparation, and Maths and Statistics support.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/goabroad:
Choosing to study or work abroad as part of your degree is a life changing opportunity.
You'll experience new learning and working environments, meet people in different cultures and escape your comfort zone.
It's also proven to increase your chances of finding a job once you graduate.
Discover opportunities to spend 2 weeks or up to a year studying abroad in 300 partners across the world
Explore opportunities to enhance your career prospects with international work experience
Get inspired and connect with Go Abroad students
Study at University of Glasgow for a semester or full year.
Engage with diverse international opportunities across the globe such as summer schools, internships and Work Based Learning
The 2025 International Staff week dedicated to alternate forms of exchange
Students with disabilities and additional support needs are encouraged to apply to Go Abroad opportunities.
Some study exchange destinations are more suitable than others.
There may be additional funding available.
To know your options visit additional support.
Remember that different countries do not necessarily have the same laws and customs that you are familiar with in the UK.
This includes protections under the Equality Act 2010.
If you identify with a protected characteristic group we advise you research the local laws, customs and support provision for minority groups.
This includes if you have a disability, are LGBT or from a minority faith or ethnicity in your destination country.
Further information on Equality & Diversity.
Opening Hours : Monday – Friday 0900-1700 Email : goabroad@glasgow.ac.uk
Emails are monitored during office hours.
You will receive an automated response to your email enquiry.
If you are in a crisis situation the University has a Crisis Team .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sport/gusa:
Glasgow University Sports Association (GUSA) is the oldest student body on campus and provides student-led representation for all UofG Sport members and creates opportunities to take part in over 50 different sports.
Sport provides a great chance to help you lead a balanced, healthy lifestyle.
Here at GUSA we know how to live the best of all worlds.
New to the gym?
Get started with the support of our trained GUSA Active Buddies .
Recreational and social sport sessions in the Stevenson Building, with sports including volleyball, basketball, badminton and squash.
Find out more about the Chancellor's Fund, Representative Fund & Hardship Fund.
Quick Links
Join UofG SPORT
Join a Club

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/contact:
For all enquiries regarding applications, admissions and studying at Glasgow please email the relevant address from the list below:
Community Development (BA)
For other enquiries about studying at Glasgow: enquire online
We have a diverse University community with students and staff from over 120 different countries.
Short Courses runs a range of day time and evening part-time courses including Access to university programmes :

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/how-to-apply-for-a-postgraduate-taught-degree:
Contact the Postgraduate Admissions team using our enquiry form:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/howtoapplyforapostgraduateresearchdegree:
All Postgraduate Research Students are allocated a supervisor who will act as the main source of academic support and research mentoring.
You may want to identify a potential supervisor and contact them to discuss your research proposal before you apply.
Please note, even if you have spoken to an academic staff member about your proposal you still need to submit an online application form.
You can find relevant academic staff members with our staff research interests search .
Before applying please make sure you gather the following supporting documentation:
To complete your application we will need two references (one must be academic the other can be academic or professional).
There are two options for you to submit references as part of your application.
You can upload a document as part of your application or you can enter in your referee’s contact details and we will contact them to request a reference.
Option 1 – Uploading as part of the application form
Your references should be on official headed paper.
These should also be signed by the referee.
You can then upload these via theOnline Application form with the rest your documents to complete the application process.
Please be aware that documents must not exceed 5MB in size and therefore you may have to upload your documents separately.
The online system allow you to upload supporting documents only in PDF format.
For a free PDF writer go to www.pdfforge.org.
Option 2 - Entering contact details as part of the application form
If you enter your referees contact details including email on the application form we will email them requesting they submit a reference once you have submitted the application form.
When the referee responds and sends a reference you will be sent an email to confirm the university has received this.
After submitting your application form
Use our Applicant Self Service uploading documents function to submit a new reference.
We can also accept confidential references direct to rio-researchadmissions@glasgow.ac.uk , from the referee’s university or business email account.
Once you have all your supporting documentation you can apply online through our Online Application System
If you have any questions about your application before you have applied please contact the relevant Graduate School:
If you have any questions once you have submitted your application form please contact our Admissions department:
Any references may also be submitted by email to:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/feesandfunding:
Fees are available on individual programme pages, see:
If you require funding for your taught postgraduate programme, you should begin your research as soon as early as possible.
The type of financial support you are entitled to will depend on your programme of study and your residency status.
The Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) offer a universal student loan entitlement of £11,500 for all eligible taught postgraduate students*.
This comprises of a tuition fee loan up to £7,000 and a non-income assessed living cost loan of £4,500.
For part-time students undertaking an eligible course, a tuition fee loan of up to £7,000 is available to to help pay for all or some of your tuition fees.
Applications for the loan will be open from April and repayment is added to existing undergraduate loans.
For more information visit the SAAS website .
* For Erasmus Mundus Scottish students funded via SAAS PG Loans, the minimum requirement is 25% of the degree based in the UK.
The University of Glasgow has a total of 20 PGT Excellence Awards available to UK students.
Scholarships are available to students entering any of the University’s colleges and are awarded as a tuition fee discount.
To be eligible, applicants must:
The University, government agencies, research councils, charitable trusts and external bodies offer a number of scholarships, studentships and loans to help you undertake a taught postgraduate qualification.
You can find up-to-date information on what's available through our Scholarship Database.
Our Graduate School web pages also have a wealth of useful scholarship and financial information.
If you are an English student looking to study taught postgraduate programme in Glasgow then you can apply for a student loan in exactly the same way as you would for an English University.
Finance is provided by Student Finance England.
If you’re starting a masters degree*, you could get a GOV.UK: Postgraduate Masters Loan of up to £10,609 to help with course fees and living costs.
* Erasmus Mundus students from England and Wales can receive loans as long as 50% of the degree is studied in the UK.
If you’re starting a doctoral degree on or after 1 August 2018, you could get a GOV.UK: Postgraduate Doctoral Loan of up to £25,000 to help with course fees and living costs.
The postgraduate loan is available for both full-time and part-time study postgraduate study if you meet the eligibility criteria outlined.
For more information visit: GOV.UK: Funding for postgraduate study
If you are a Northern Irish student looking to study a taught Masters programme* in Glasgow then you can apply for a student loan in exactly the same way as you would for a University in Northern Ireland.
Northern Irish students are able to apply for non-means-tested tuition fee loans of up to £5,500, to help with the costs of funding
For more information visit: Student Finance NI: Postgraduate students
* does not apply to Erasmus Mundus programmes
If you are a Welsh student looking to study a postgraduate programme in Glasgow then you can apply for a student loan in exactly the same way as you would for a Welsh University.
If you’re starting a masters degree*, you could get a Postgraduate Masters Loan of up to £10,280 to help with course fees and living costs.
If you’re starting a doctoral degree on or after 1 August 2018, you could get a Postgraduate of up to £25,000 to help with course fees and living costs.
For more information visit:
International/EU students should visit our pages for the latest financial information and scholarship opportunities.
Some departments offer Graduate Teaching Assistantships to postgraduate research students, which involve conducting tutorials and undertaking other teaching-related duties for first and second-year undergraduate students.
Many students find that being a Graduate Teaching Assistant is an excellent way of gaining valuable work experience, as well as a means of supplementing their income.
You should enquire at the relevant graduate school office for information on opportunities available in your destination department.
Information on sources of funding may be obtained from the following websites:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/offerholders:
We’re thrilled to offer you a postgraduate place at the University of Glasgow!
Manage your offer with Applicant Self Service
Information for postgraduate research offer holders
Admissions enquiry form
If you haven't received one, email us and we'll send you the details: unibuddy@glasgow.ac.uk
Watch UofG's Maeve and Mark talk through everything admissions related from important timelines to obtaining your CAS.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/supervisors:
All our postgraduate research students are allocated a supervisor who acts as the main source of academic support and research mentoring.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/postgraduate/postgrad-online-event:
This virtual event will provide you with an overview of life at the University of Glasgow, for on-campus postgraduate study.
The event will include sessions and information from our university service teams including information on accommodation, funding, and student life.
With academic information sessions provided by:
The full programme will be made available closer to the event
We look forward to meeting you virtually in November 2025!
In the meantime, you may be interested in attending one of our Online Information Sessions or meeting University of Glasgow staff at an event in your area.
Visit our Event Pages for more details of ways to engage with us.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/postgraduate/finance-funding-event:
Come along to our World Changing Gilmorehill Campus and chat to staff and students to find out all about life as a postgraduate student at UofG!
Thinking about PhD / PGR study?
While this event is focused on taught postgraduate study, you’re welcome to join our talks and explore the ARC.
Please note, PhD funding opportunities will not be covered.
We look forward to welcoming you on-campus soon!

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/postgraduate/pginfosessions:
Come along to one of our online Information Sessions to learn about our degrees, how to apply and how to search for funding.
This session will cover the first steps for anyone thinking about postgraduate study.
Join staff and current postgraduate students for a short presentation followed by a Q&A.
We do not currently have any applicant information sessions scheduled.
We will advertise new sessions on this page once dates have been confirmed.
These information sessions are intended for applicants based in the UK and Ireland (ROI) .
If you are an international student and wish to register for an information session you can click here to register.
Explore our dedicated offer holders hub to find out everything you need to know about becoming part of Team UofG.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/international-info-sessions-pg:
Are you thinking of studying a Postgraduate degree at Glasgow?
Come along to one of our Information Sessions to learn about our degrees, how to apply and how to search for funding.
Join our virtual Information Sessions led by a member of staff to discover what makes Glasgow, the university and the city, a great place to study.
During the session we can answer questions on our degree programmes, study abroad opportunities, accommodation and life in Glasgow.
If you are interested in joining us to study from September 2026 you can register your interest using the form below to be notified when future sessions become available - this will be from October 2025.
In the meantime, if you have any specific quesitons please get in touch with us via our Enquiry Form.
Admissions Enquiry Form

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/postgraduate/pgstudentlifeinfosessions:
Join us to hear about Postgraduate student life in Glasgow from current UofG students.
Our students will talk through their life in Glasgow, Societies, Sports, Accommodation and more, with time for questions.
We will also be joined by a member of staff for any further questions.
Our Postgraduate student led sessions will take place on:
Book your place now using the form below.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/scholarships/glasgowexcellenceawarduk:
The University of Glasgow has a total of 40 Glasgow Excellence Scholarships available to UK students entering any of the University’s Colleges.
To be eligible, applicants must
University of Glasgow is committed to support as many self-funded students as possible which is why UofG discounts and scholarships cannot be combined with one another or any external sponsorship discounts (with the exception of Alumni Discount).
If you are offered more than 1 scholarship, the lower value award will be deleted from your account.
If you are unsure of whether you are eligible to apply, please contact scholarships@glasgow.ac.uk
Number of Scholarships 40
£5,000 Tuition Fee Discount
Closing date for this scholarship is 15th August 2025.
The final round of offers will be issued shortly after the closing date.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/scholarships/alumnidiscount:
In response to the current unprecedented economic climate, the University is offering a 20% discount to self-funding students on all Postgraduate Research and full Postgraduate Taught Masters programmes to its alumni, commencing study in Academic session 2025/26.
This includes University of Glasgow graduates and those who have completed a Study Abroad programme, International Summer School programme or the Erasmus Programme at the University of Glasgow.
The discount applies to most full-time or part-time postgraudate taught programmes).
This discount can be awarded alongside University scholarships, with the exception of full-fee scholarship.
To be eligible, students must:
20% tuition fee discount for Academic Session 2025/26
For PGT programmes
The discount is applied at registration.
No additional application is required.
Alumni discount appeals can only be assessed until January of that academic year.
For academic session 2025/26 any alumni discount appeals will be assessed up to 31 January 2026.
Any requests made after this date cannot be considered.
For PGR programmes please contact your Graduate School for further information.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/accommodation:
Why we believe staying in University accommodation is the best option for you.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/colleges/arts/students/postgraduatestudents/prospective-student-events:
Attend our Arts & Humanities webinars to find out more about the Masters programme that interests you.
At these events you will have the opportunity to:
Browse the programme webinars below and click to register any postgraduate webinar information sessions that interest you.
Click the link below to watch the recordings.
Explore our Postgraduate Information Webinar Recordings

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/colleges/scienceengineering/futurestudents/postgraduatetaughtstudy/postgraduateprogrammeqasessions:
The College of Science & Engineering recently held information sessions for postgraduate students looking to join us in September 2025.
If you missed the event or want to watch the presentations again, you can view the recordings on this page.
You can still sign up for a non-academic information session about studying at Glasgow, and watch our series of postgraduate taught taster lectures from our Future students page .
The session covers:
This session covers:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/careers:
This digital platform is a treasure trove for all types of career opportunities (plus events and advice appointments).
Log in with your GUID or register for a graduate account to start browsing.
Information, self-guided learning and live masterclasses to empower all students, no matter what year you're in, in your career development, planning and preparation.
Part-time, full-time, internships, graduate roles, study & work abroad, work experience, and more.
Meet and network with a range of employers, alumni and other special guests at careers fairs & events.
Glasgow Careers is your one-stop shop to find jobs, book appointments, register for events and much more.
Learn about the ways we provide direct, one-on-one support, including the Peer Career Support Team and Career Coaching.
Discover careers and employability support available to international students.
These resources will help enhance your employability, offer some extremely valuable careers advice and enable you to learn the techniques of career planning.
Find out more about engaging with our students, raising your profile on-campus, booking on to events and advertising jobs/internships.
@UofGCareers
Business hours:
Monday–Friday, 09:00–17:00 +44 (0)141 330 5647
General queries: careers@glasgow.ac.uk Vacancy advertising queries: employers@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/careers/finding-jobs/studentopportunitieshub:
Brought to you by the Careers, Employability & Opportunity team, the Student Opportunities Hub is the one-stop shop for UofG students to find work that can be done alongside studies.
The Student Opportunities Hub promotes internships and part-time jobs both at the University and with local businesses.
The opportunities we promote can be in-person, hybrid or fully remote.
Use the relevant links to find out how you can get involved.
Find part-time jobs and internships, on and off-campus.
Are you a UofG staff member looking to hire a student for a part-time job or internship?
Find out more about hiring highly skilled students through the Student Opportunities Hub.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/visasandimmigration/graduatevisainformation:
The Graduate Visa allows you to live in the UK to look for work / undertake work.
It is granted for 2 years where your "relevant course" is an undergraduate or postgraduate degree, and 3 years if you successfully completed PhD.
You can only apply for (and be issued) a Graduate Visa once and applications can only be made from inside the UK.
You must have successfully completed your course and submit the Graduate Visa application form on or before your Student Visa expires - please read the eligiblity requirements and information on when to apply discussed below.
UKVI say that to be eligible to apply for a Graduate Visa you need to have:
See the links to the UKVI webpages for further information on these requirements:
"Relevant course" - UKVI say you usually must have "successfully completed" one of the following courses on your current Student / Tier 4 (General) Visa:
* Regarding the "relevant course" requirement, UKVI have confirmed that students undertaking a Masters at UoG, where some modules for the course are undertaken outside the UK at partner institutions (for example the 2 year UoG Erasmus Mundas Masters) are eligible to apply where they have held a Student Visa for the full duration of the course.
"Successful completion" - you will have successfully completed your course if you are awarded the qualification stated on the CAS used to apply for your current Tier 4 / Student Visa.
You will also meet this requirement where you were allowed to change to a "relevant course" without first applying for a new Student Visa, and you are awarded the qualification for the course you changed to.
Your School Office / Graduate School can confirm when they expect your course results to be available and they will share your results with the Immigration Compliance Team.
See here to understand when Immigration Compliance Team will report the successful completion of your course to UKVI .
"Required period" requirement - you must have studied your course in the UK while holding your current, valid Student / Tier 4 (General) Visa for either:
- at least 12 months (if the length of your course is more than 12 months) or
- the total length of your course (if the total length of your course is less than 12 months)
Please note: It is very unlikely that a Graduate Visa application would be successful where the successful completion of your course has not reported to UKVI before the UKVI caseworker makes a decision on your visa application.
You can submit the online Graduate Visa application form:
The date you submit your Graduate Visa application is the date you pay the visa processing fees and submit the online Graduate Visa application form.
When you apply for a visa in the UK and submit the visa application form on or before your current visa expiry date, this is called making an "in-time" visa application.
When you make an “in-time” visa application, you will continue to have valid immigration leave for the UK and can stay in the UK legally under the conditions of your Student Visa while you wait for a decision (even if your current visa expires while you wait).
It is very important therefore that you make sure you submit the Graduate Visa application form either on or before your Student Visa expiry date.
If you will leave the UK after completing your course, please see the information on the ISS webpages about travelling back to the UK on your Student Visa, and documents you may wish to carry with you in your hand luggage.
Time spent outside the UK after you have successfully completed your course (e.g.
where you leave the UK after completing the course then return before your Student Visa expires to apply for the Graduate Visa) will not affect whether you meet the "relevant period" requirement.
Please see this on the UKVI's webpages here .
Use the information from the documents you have prepared for your Graduate Visa application to answer the questions on the application form.
For example, your passport, the CAS you used to apply for your current Student or Tier 4 visa, your current visa details and so on.
You will pay the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) and visa fees as part of completing the Graduate Visa online application form - see how much these will cost on the UKVI's Graduate Visa webpages .
The visa application fees are £822 per applicant (this fee is due to rise to £880 on 9 April 2025) when using the "Standard" application service (it can take up to 8 weeks to receive a visa decision).
See the UKVI webpages for information on using "priority" application services (to get a faster visa decision).
From 6 February 2024 IHS will be £1035 for each year of the Graduate Visa applied for (2 years for undergraduate and postgraduate taught students, 3 years for PhD and doctorate level students).
You must submit the online Graduate Visa application form on or before your Student Visa expiry date to make an "in-time" visa application.
This allows you to stay in the UK lawfully while you wait for your Graduate Visa application decision (even where your visa expires while you wait).
UKVI say that if you leave the Common Travel Area (CTA) after making a Graduate Visa application and before receiving the application decision that they will withdraw your visa application.
The CTA comprises UK (including Jersey, Guernsey & Isle of Man) and Ireland.
You should stay in the UK until you receive a visa decision (and your Graduate Visa where your decsion e-mail confirms your application was successful).
You may be asked to download and use the IDV app when you have completed some of the questions on the UKVI visa application form webpages.
When you use the IDV app your Biometrics given for your last UK visa application will be re-used.
If you cannot use the IDV app as your phone is not compatible or you do not have a Biometric passport, select the link option in blue on the screen saying "I do not have a phone that can use the app".
Where you are not asked to use the IDV app, or where you indicate that you cannot use the IDV app, you will need to attend a UKVCAS centre to give your Biometrics instead.
You can book a Biometrics appointment at a UKVCAS centre after your Graduate Visa online application form has been submitted.
Once a decision has been made on your visa application you will receive a decision e-mail from UKVI.
The decision e-mail will confirm the outcome of your visa application.
It will also state if you have been granted a digital visa status (and how to access your share code if so).
Keep this safe.
If you are not granted a digital visa status you will be issued with a BRP.
You can expect to receive your BRP usually within 7-10 working days after receiving the decision e-mail.
The BRP is posted via Royal Mail to your address in the UK that you entered onto your visa application form.
You must notify the UK as soon as possible by completing and submitting a Change of Circumstances form where your current visa is on a BRP.
You would update your address details via your online UK immigration account where your current visa was issued as a digital visa status.
See the Graduate Route -  Caseworker Guidance for further information on when you need to provide written consent from an official financial sponsor / scholarship provider and sponsor letter requirements in “Financial Evidence for Student Route Applicants”.
Appendix Finance (8.3b) defines official financial sponsorship as: “funds provided by an official financial sponsor, which must be His Majesty’s Government, the applicant’s national government, the British Council or any international organisation, international company, university or Independent School”.
You will need to provide written consent from the official financial sponsorship / scholarship provider (i.e.
to you applying for a Graduate Visa and staying in the UK longer) where:
- you completed a course in the UK within the 12 months before the date of your Graduate Visa application, and
- received a scholarship or official financial sponsorship for that course (from either a Government or international scholarship agency), and
- the money was for both course fees and living costs ("fully funded" or "wholly sponsored").
Please note: You will not need to provide written consent where:
• Money was not received from a government or international scholarship agency
• Details of official financial sponsorship / scholarship was received via UoG (including where money received was stated on the CAS you used to apply for your current Student Visa)
• Money you received was not for both tuition fees and living costs
The UKVI Graduate Visa webpages and Appendix Graduate state who is eligible to apply as your dependant under the Graduate Visa route.
Where you hold a Student Visa and will apply for a Graduate Visa, your spouse and children can apply with you for a (Graduate) Dependant Visa if:
See the eligiblity requirements in Appendix Graduate :
GR 9.4.
The applicant must be in the UK on the date of application and must:
(a) have, or have last been granted, permission as a dependant partner of a Student and that Student is applying for, or has now been granted, permission to stay in the Graduate route; or
(b) have, or have last been granted, permission as a dependant child of either a Student or dependant partner of the Student and that Student is applying for, or has now been granted, permission to stay in the Graduate route; or
(c) be a child born in the UK during the last grant of Student permission of a Student and that Student is applying for, or has now been granted, permission to stay in the Graduate route.
The Graduate route UKVI caseworker guidance confirms that a dependant does not need to apply at the same time as the main applicant.
A Student dependant's deadline for switching to Graduate dependant is therefore the expiry date of their Student dependant permission.
You can read more about this on UKVI Graduate Route caseworker guidance: www.gov.uk/government/publications/graduate-caseworker-guidance on page 21.
You can also read more about this guidance on the UKCISA webpages too under the heading Can my family apply for the Graduate route?
They also explain the eligibility requirements as well for the visa : https://www.ukcisa.org.uk/Information--Advice/Working/Graduate-route
Each of your dependants must complete and submit the online visa application form on the UKVI's Graduate Visa webpages:
Each dependant will pay the visa application fee and IHS - see how much these will cost on the UKVI's Graduate Visa webpages .
The visa application fees are £822 under the "Standard" visa application service (it can take up to 8 weeks to receive a visa decision).
See the UKVI webpages for information on using "priority" visa application services (to get a faster visa decision).
From 6 February 2024 IHS will be £1035 for each year of the (Dependant) Graduate Visa applied for (2 years for undergraduate and postgraduate taught students, 3 years for PhD and doctorate level students).
Your dependant may be asked to download and use the IDV app when they have completed some of the questions on the UKVI visa application form webpages.
When they use the IDV app the biometric details given for their last UK visa application will be re-used.
If they cannot use the IDV app (e.g.
as their phone is not compatible or they do not have a Biometric passport) they should select the link option in blue on the screen saying "I do not have a phone that can use the app".
Where they are not asked to use the IDV app, or where they indicate that they cannot use the IDV app, they will need to attend a UKVCAS centre to give their Biometrics instead.
See the UKVI Graduate Visa Caseworker Guidance and Appendix Graduate regarding the documents your dependants need to prepare for their visa application.
Common documents may include:
Passport / visa: Where the IDV app has not been used to make the Graduate Dependant application, your dependants would expect to be asked to upload copies of their passport and current visa.
Evidence of relationship and living together: Your partner / spouse may be asked to provide evidence that they are still in a relationship with you.
For example, evidence to show:
You may also be asked to provide evidence that you and your partner live together in the UK at the same address, for example, a Council Tax statement or tenancy agreement stating both your names and showing your current address in the UK.
Consent letter from an official financial sponsor: This is applicable for (Graduate) Dependant Visa applicants who:
- completed a course in the UK within the 12 months before the date of their(Graduate) Dependant Visa application, and
- received a scholarship or official financial sponsorship for that course (from a Government or international scholarship agency), and
Where this applies you would need to provide a letter confirming the official financial sponsor's consent to you applying for a (Graduate) Dependant Visa and staying in the UK for longer.
Applying for your child: if they were a baby born in the UK during the period of your current visa, they may be asked to provide evidence of their relationship to you.
For example, a UK birth certificate or a special guardianship order from a court.
If your child is over 18 on the date of application, UKVI say they must:
If your child lives with you, you’ll also need to provide evidence of their address (e.g.
the same address as you in the UK) such as:
Students affected by the marking boycott can see the discretionary arrangements UKVI put into place for them in the UKVI's Marking Boycott and Graduate Visa Q&A Document .
The main two points can be seen below:
Example of point 1: Where successful completion of your course can be reported to UKVI within 8 weeks of the date you submit the Graduate Visa application, you can still apply for a Graduate Visa under point 1.
You must always submit the online Graduate Visa application form on or before the date your Student / Tier 4 visa expires.
Example of point 2: Where successful completion of your course cannot be reported to UKVI within the 8 weeks after you apply for a Graduate Visa, you cannot rely on point 1.
However, you can submit a Student Visa application for extra leave to stay in the UK while you wait for your results under point 2.
When requesting a CAS you would need to confirm the visa extension is due to the marking boycott, so the correct statement about this can be added to the CAS.
You can apply for the Graduate Visa later (on or before the extended Student Visa expiry date).
This is posted by Royal Mail to your address in the UK that you entered onto your visa application form.
See the UKVI webpages explaining the two options to notify UKVI of the address change - you should tell them about this as soon as possible:
Appendix Student (ST26.6) confirms that after you have submitted an "in-time" Graduate Visa application you will be permitted to undertake employment in a permanent, full-time vacancy.
You will retain the other work conditions of your Student / Tier 4 visa where you have made an in-time Graduate Visa (while you are waiting to receive your Graduate Visa application decision).
You would only be able to work under the Graduate Visa work conditions once you have received a decision from UKVI confirming your Graduate Visa application has been successful.
You can see the work conditions for a Graduate Visa holder in the UKVI's Immigration Rules, Appendix Graduate .
You will receive a visa decision e-mail that confirms the outcome of your visa application.
See your decision e-mail for details of the visa you have been granted, such as when this expires and your visa conditions.
Keep the decision e-mail safe.
It will also tell you whether you will receive a BRP (with inofrmation on when you can expect to receive this) or if you will be granted an online digital visa status ( with inofrmation on how to access this / generate a share code).
If you will receive a BRP this will be sent to you via Royal Mail to the address you entered on the visa application form.
Royal Mail attempt a delivery but were unable for any reason to deliver your BRP, they will leave a "Something for you" card explaining this and what you need to do next.
It is not possible to change the address your BRP will be delivered to via Royal Mail.
This card may be posted through your letterbox or left at the main front door of your building, or at the reception for your building, for example.
Where you receive a card, you will need to arrange a redelivery, or collect your BRP from the local Royal Mail Office - the card will explain how to do this.
See the UKVI's Graduate Visa webpages for information what you can and cannot do on a Graduate Visa, and Appendix Graduate of the Immigration Rules for the conditions of your Graduate Visa (including your work and study conditions).
You can only study in the UK with a Graduate Visa if your chosen course is not eligible for a Student visa .
If you currently hold a Student Visa and wish to stay in the UK in order to study on a course that you can be issued a CAS for (i.e.
the course is eligible for a Student Visa), you should instead apply for another Student Visa for your new course.
Where you already hold a Graduate Visa, and you wish to study a course at UoG that is eligible for a Student Visa (i.e.
where you can receive a CAS from Admissions at UoG for the course), you need to:
UKCISA information on the Graduate Route
UKVI Graduate Visa webpages
UKVI Graduate Visa Caseworker Guidance
Immigration Rules: Appendix Graduate
Immigration Rules: Appendix Student
UKVI's Identity Verification (IDV) app - Information Sheet
UKVI's Identity Verification (IDV) app - Video Guide
Home Office ‘Covid-19: Guidance for Student sponsors, migrants and Short-term students: Temporary concessions in response to Covid19’ Guidance document
Home Office Graduate Route Fact Sheet

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/alumni/benefitsandservices/careerssupport:
As a UofG Alumnus, you can access support wherever you are in the world and whatever stage you're at in your career.
We're committed to providing a range of services that help our Alumni on their career journey, whether taking the first step on to it, changing it's direction or building a network along the way.
On this page you'll find ways to take advantage of and explore some of those services.
Please don't hesitate to get in touch with us at alumni@glasgow.ac.uk if you'd like any more information.
Get industry insights, honest advice and top tips from the new Sound Tracks podcast .
#UofGSoundTracks brings you sound advice from fellow Glasgow grads, to help keep your career on track!
You can still access the Careers Service for two years after you graduate.
Browse opportunities on Glasgow Careers and attend online and in-person careers events.
Watch bite-size videos from notable alumni as they share their industry top tips, current projects, and sprinklings of nostalgia.
From National Clinical Director to Guiness World Record holder, find inspiration in #TeamUofG.
University of Glasgow alumni can access a number of discounts on further study, including:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/alumni/ouralumni/soundtracks:
Sound Tracks is the UofG alumni podcast that’s packed with sound advice from UofG grads to help keep your career on track.
Get industry insights, honest advice and top tips.
#UofGSoundTracks Seasons 1 - 5 live now!
On public engagement pairing science with creativity and comedy
Listen here!
The Co-Founder of Ooni Pizza Ovens on turning your idea into a world class business
Listen here!
On comedy, acting and award-winning writing
Industry
Careers topic
UofG College

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/contact:
For all enquiries regarding applications, admissions and studying at Glasgow.
To request a prospectus, and for details of our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
To ask a current student a question.
We have a diverse University community with students and staff from over 120 different countrues.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/attractions:
Discover our wide selection of Cafes & Restaurants on Campus

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/wheretostay:
Accommodation Services can offer short-term accommodation in University guest flats within certain halls of residence.
This accommodation is ideally suited to visitors and tourists and new members of staff seeking a temporary base whilst investigating the local property market.
For further information on availability and rates, please contact us:
Short term residential bookings can also be made online, email: book.accom.gla.ac.uk
To find private accommodation in and around Glasgow:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/contact:
For enquries relating to our Open Days and Events, please contact the Event's Team at: opendays@glasgow.ac.uk
For Campus Tour enquiries, please email: campustours@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/attractions/guidedtour:
Guided tours of the University are available, offering you the chance to discover more about the University’s architecture and 550 years of history.
‌Campus tours for visitors are organised on behalf of the University by the Students' Representative Council (SRC).
Tours are led by trained student guides and last approximately one hour.
The following historical tours are offered:
Book a scheduled tour online or enquire about a private tour by contacting the SRC Box Office
Other campus attractions include:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/hunterian:
The oldest public museum in Scotland, with collections spanning arts, sciences and humanities, The Hunterian is at the forefront of university museums around the world.
The Hunterian has a range of venues to explore on the University of Glasgow campus and beyond.
Explore, learn and research with our collections.
Experience exhibitions and events across The Hunterian.
We look to play our part in furthering equity, justice and diversity in our society.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/planning-tools:
Teaching Planning Principles 2025-26
The Academic Year shall run from 16 September 2024 until 12 September 2025
Registry post the timetables ahead of each exam period through the following webpage:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/af-aiguidance:
GenAI Guidance on a page [UofG Staff Only]
GenAI Assessment Scenarios
The purpose of this guidance is to help you understand the University’s policy on the use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) tools in relation to assessment practice.
It outlines three scenarios that detail how GenAI can be used in assessment.
You can utilise this guidance to inform and review your assessment design, in the context of the Learning Through Assessment Framework .
The guidance in these pages is not all new, rather it builds on the previously stated position with respect to GenAI use, but has been updated and augmented in response to colleague feedback.
In the meantime, if you have any questions, please contact the Assessment & Feedback Practice and Policy workstream .
The following examples have been gathered from colleagues across the University of Glasgow, outlining ways that you might consider changing assessment.
Find out more...
Guidance for students on how to use and reference GenAI can be found here .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/news:
Tue, 17 Jun 2025 10:56:00 BST
For the month of June, we have recruited 10 interns to support the co-creation of Curriculum for Life (C4L) student facing communications and the development of course content for Collaborations in Practice (CiP), a new course as part of C4L.
The Assessment & Feedback Practice Enhancement Tool Dashboard is now available for all staff in the University of Glasgow.
Tue, 17 Jun 2025 16:45:00 BST
As we come to an end of Academic Year 2024/2025, Moira Fischbacher-Smith reflects on the work of the Learning & Teaching Strategy and looks at our next steps in 2025.
Wed, 30 Apr 2025 10:56:00 BST
For some time now, colleagues have provided feedback through a range of fora, on the course and programme approval process.
We are therefore pleased to announce that colleagues from across the Colleges, Professional Services and the SRC have come together to form a working group to redesign the University’s course and programme approval process.
Wed, 30 Apr 2025 14:32:48 BST
UofG has developed guidance for colleagues who are considering implementing a flexible approach to assessment submission, which has been shown to be successful in those Schools that have tried it.
Wed, 30 Apr 2025 14:36:31 BST
This September, the University of Glasgow is improving the student academic experience by providing seamless access to all consolidated course assessment information and grades in one place.
Using MyGrades, colleagues can support this new approach to standardised grade aggregation across all Colleges.
Wed, 30 Apr 2025 14:38:00 BST
The University has committed to a campus-based, active learning experience for students who are not on our fully online degree programmes.
As such, the expectation is that we are designing teaching to be engaging, interactive, and a valued experience for students that enables them to connect with one another and with staff teaching the course.
Wed, 30 Apr 2025 14:41:57 BST
As we approach exam season, we would like to remind colleagues of the effective steps to provide feedback on assessment to students.
Wed, 30 Apr 2025 14:44:01 BST
The Student Teaching Awards (STAs), run by the Student Representative Council, help recognise the great work of some amazing members of staff and can also help highlight best practice.
Wed, 12 Mar 2025 14:00:00 GMT
The Assessment & Feedback Practice Enhancement Tool (PET) will open for responses on Wednesday, 26th March 2025.
This tool provides an opportunity for you to reflect on your assessment practices and consider how they align with the University’s Learning Through Assessment (LTA) framework.
Wed, 12 Mar 2025 14:11:02 GMT
The newly launched Active Learning Resources Hub is a go-to resource for all teaching staff who want to know more about different active learning methods and strategies.
Wed, 12 Mar 2025 14:19:12 GMT
How we used doughnuts to super-charge our feedback sessions with students, helping fuel a new brand for the Student Skills & Future workstream
Wed, 12 Mar 2025 14:20:00 GMT
Saeko Yazaki shares an update on a new resource, following an LTDF funded project in 2024.
Wed, 12 Mar 2025 14:24:00 GMT
Launch of new UofG Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL) Ethics Committee (SEC) for staff SoTL projects is now operational
Wed, 12 Mar 2025 14:28:00 GMT
A reflection of Abigail Watson and Kristina Kurincova's internship with the Learning & Teaching Strategy and how they assisted in the development of the Active Learning Resources Hub.
Wed, 29 Jan 2025 11:56:00 GMT
Student experience is being captured throughout the ongoing evaluation of two new digital assessment platforms, as the University pilots this technology over academic year 2024/2025.
Wed, 29 Jan 2025 12:02:00 GMT
At last week’s Re-Welcome Fair, held in the Glasgow University Union, workstream members of the Learning & Teaching Strategy held a stall to speak with students, sharing information about the strategy and gaining insight into their views on new projects.
Wed, 29 Jan 2025 15:46:00 GMT
The Assessment & Feedback Practice & Policy Workstream will be hosting a workshop on February 21st at 1pm-3.30pm, welcoming colleagues involved in learning and teaching at the University of Glasgow to discuss adjusting or changing assessment and creating more inclusive assessment considering the growing use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI).
Wed, 29 Jan 2025 15:54:00 GMT
The Student Voice Working Group, jointly led by the SRC and the University, is hosting two workshops involving students and staff on February 5th and 11th.
Wed, 29 Jan 2025 15:55:00 GMT
Join Dr Ourania Varsou and Dr Alison Cairns on Tuesday, 4th of Feb, at 1-3pm in the Anatomy Museum, Thomson Building to hear about their latest project, Basic Science in Focus: Engaging Dental Students in the Study of Anatomy via a Novel Innovation in E-Learning.
Wed, 11 Dec 2024 23:29:00 GMT
The Learning & Teaching Strategy 2020- 2025 Progress Report which details some of the pivotal moments of this year to date, putting a spotlight on the breakthrough work being achieved by the workstreams.
Wed, 11 Dec 2024 16:35:14 GMT
Student Skills and Professional Development Interns Kaitlin and Alessandro discuss how they've added a student perspective to the work of the Student Skills Workstream.
Wed, 11 Dec 2024 16:38:00 GMT
In September, four colleagues involved in the Curriculum for Life workstream visited Hong Kong University to gain a better insight into their Common Core Programme.
Wed, 11 Dec 2024 16:45:20 GMT
The Assessment & Feedback Practice & Policy workstream would like to remind colleagues of the effective steps to provide feedback on assessment to students.
Breaking this down into four key areas, we hope this content acts as a reminder to support student learning.
Wed, 11 Dec 2024 16:46:00 GMT
An introduction to the new dedicated team has been established to help provide further focus on the development of the Learning & Teaching Strategy’s workstreams, a dedicated resource to enable the strategy implementation.
Wed, 06 Nov 2024 15:00:00 GMT
In the latest episode of The Teaching and Scholarship Podcast, Dr Ashley Lewis-Cole discusses her involvement in driving the Collaborative Online International Learning (COIL) initiative at the University of Glasgow.
At Welcome Week, we surveyed over 448 students at our Student Learning & Experiences stall to find out more about their expectations and concerns when it comes to University.
The University of Glasgow is piloting two digital assessment platforms during the academic year 2024/2025 with several teaching staff colleagues in all four colleges.
Students can now see all their assessment information from various courses in one convenient location, offering a clearer picture of their academic progress.
What good approaches do you have for engaging with student feedback?
Wed, 18 Sep 2024 15:00:00 BST
Last week, the Student Skills and Professional Development Workstream held two workshops to start developing a new taxonomy of skills that will support the embedding of employability within learning and teaching.
We are pleased to announce the recent launch of Student MyGrades and the Staff MyGrades Moodle plugin with the grade capture tab on 3rd September.
Save the date & call for abstracts for the 18th Annual University of Glasgow Learning and Teaching Conference
The University of Glasgow is committed to making teaching materials inclusive and accessible to all.
This isn’t just good practice, it's also a legal obligation.
The Learning & Teaching Enhancement and Change (LTEC) Forum is pleased to announce that the Learning & Teaching Enhancement Request Form is now open.
In the final week of August, our ASBS L&T focussed colleagues completed the Learning and Teaching Summer School.
Wed, 14 Aug 2024 15:00:00 BST
As we approach a new academic year, it is important to have the latest information and resources to hand when preparing for teaching
A series of exciting new internship roles are available through the Student Internship Hub, giving students the chance to shape the future of learning and teaching at the University of Glasgow
Implementation is underway of a phased approach to introducing colleagues to the new MyGrades Moodle plugin
The University of Glasgow is pleased to support the development of Collaborative Online International Learning (COIL) with partners across the higher education sector, to encourage engagement in virtual mobility for students and opportunities to collaborate for staff
Tue, 23 Apr 2024 15:00:00 BST
Following the Learning & Teaching Day 2, the conference has now made its rich reservoir of knowledge accessible to all through the University of Glasgow's ADD YouTube channel
As the work under the Learning & Teaching Strategy evolves, we are responding to this progress with an updated Learning and Teaching webpage
The Transforming the Curricula Workstream hosted a workshop with staff and students to experience and reflect upon gaming as a key component of a new course
The Student Learning Development (SLD) team is excited to announce a Doors-Open-Day for all staff who contribute to teaching across the institution
The L1CCN is an established community of practice that aims to support course convenors and other staff involved in Level 01 teaching across the university
Wed, 31 Jan 2024 15:50:00 GMT
Teaching Excellence Awards (TEA) recognise and celebrate members of staff whose teaching and contribution to learning is of a particularly high standard.
Wed, 31 Jan 2024 15:55:00 GMT
Read More
Wed, 05 Jun 2024 15:00:00 BST
The Assessment & Feedback Practice Enhancement Tool Dashboards are now available for all staff in the University of Glasgow.
Through this anonymous survey, the Assessment & Feedback, Practice & Policy Workstream has compiled dashboards that represent the results through a College view and a School view.
Since the launch of our new Learning & Teaching webpages, we’ve seen a significant increase in visitors.
We’re excited to continue developing this space by sharing useful content, highlighting the latest updates, promoting community events, and directing you to valuable resources such as policies, guidance, and tools.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/events:
Assessment Changes Workshop which took place on June 7th, 2024.
The workshop was aimed at colleagues involved in learning and teaching at the University of Glasgow to discuss adjusting or changing assessment and creating more inclusive assessment considering the growing use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI).
For more information:
The L&T Conference takes place annually.
More information can be found here:
The Learning & Teaching Conference takes place annually.
More information:
L&T Conference website

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/teachingexcellenceawards:
Career Excellence Award
Individual Excellence Award
Early Career Award
Team Award
Career Excellence
Individual Excellence
Early Career
Previous winners:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/student-information:
This feedback can be due to a positive or less positive experience, an area where you need more support, to provide suggestions for your program, school or to the University.
The feedback options provide multiple routes to sharing your thoughts, whether that’s with your course convenor, class rep, or other relevant people.
This page gives you a break down on the ways that you can give feedback and what you can expect in return.
The University of Glasgow believes artificial intelligence (AI) tools are potentially transformative as well as disruptive.
They increasingly feature in academic and professional workplaces.
You will graduate into an AI-augmented world.
The university therefore has a responsibility to prepare you for this world, providing space to experiment with, and understand the potential of, AI in an ethical way.
Consequently, rather than seek to prohibit your use of these tools, we want to support you in learning how to use them effectively, ethically, critically, and transparently.
Futher Exam Support
The University's academic policy, governance structures and processes.
The Learning & Teaching Strategy is continually looking for students to engage in workshops to provide feedback and insights on new projects, courses and other activities.
Students receive payment for their time engaging in these workshops.
To hear about these opportunities, please sign up to our Student Panel group here:
Sign up for student panel
Find out more about our current initiatives, comment, get involved, and suggest new projects:
You Experience, Have Your Say

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/blendedteaching:
The University has agreed upon these to inform your choices, guide your processes, and ensure a consistent and high-quality experience for students across their curriculum.
Start by familiarising yourself with the 7 Principles.
The University has put these in place to make sure that your students receive a comparable experience across their curriculum, and to support strong student outcomes as well as high student satisfaction on your courses by the end of the year.
The explanation of each Principle below includes suggestions of how it could be applied, along with links to relevant technologies that may help you achieve it.
You may also wish to familiarise yourself with the University of Glasgow's definitions for on-campus learning, blended learning, hybrid learning, and online learning.
*These are illustrative examples, and further technologies may become supported by the University
Very dependent on the type of content you ask your students create, but could ask them to post content to:
Note: To make working with peers more inclusive, it is important to introduce the concept of working with peers / groupwork, and why it is considered beneficial.
It can be useful to provide an introduction to what behaviour is expected, and to either assign certain roles to each member of the group or to encourage them to do so.
e.g.
students in a writing class reinforced their learning by creating their own practice mid-semester quiz, and the students who created the best had some of their questions featured on the actual mid-semester exam
(Disclaimer: these are third-party services unassociated with the University of Glasgow)
Rather than delivering or recording full, 50-minute lectures, we recommend that you break each session down into chunks more suited to an audience sitting at their computer, e.g.
10-15 minute segments.
These could either be pre-recorded for students to watch in their own time, or delivered live at scheduled class times, incorporating periods for students to interact (either with you, with other, or with materials) in order to comfortably break up the session.
For scheduled class times, beyond breaking up your whole lecture into shorter chunks, you are free to apply your own judgement in determining the right balance between live presentation, pre-recorded video, and activities to suit your own course.
From 24 Sep 2020, the new UK digital accessibility regulations mean we have a legal obligation to make any material presented online fully accessible.
Bear in mind that slideshows you present via screen share over Zoom etc.
are not accessible to assistive technologies such as screen readers.
Your presentations will therefore also need to be available as separately downloadable files.
For full details on making your materials accessible, see the Digital Accessibility webpages .
See the section headed 'Content creation: recording in Zoom'
This includes:
- How to record PowerPoint using Zoom - How to record the Zoom Whiteboard for worked examples - Checking your recording and transcript on Zoom - Adding your Zoom recording to Moodle - How to reduce the size of your video files
These can be played back at 1x, 1.5x, or 2x speed.
- Lecture Capture: Chunking and active learning opportunities (Wed 10 June) (54 mins) - Importance of Signposting in Remote Teaching (Fri 12 June) (42 mins) - 15 Recording Tips in 10 Mins (Wed 15 Jul) (21 mins) - Asynchronous vs Synchronous (Mon 13 Jul) (25 mins) - Design Tips for PowerPoint (Wed 22 Jul) (53 mins) - Digital Accessibility Regulations 2018 (Fri 10 Jul) (49 mins)
All recordings have an interactive transcript, allowing you to click and jump to a specific point.
(If you can't see the transcript, widen your browser window and the page will reformat to show it on the right.)
If prompted to log in:
You should then be redirected back to the recording
These will be particularly important in making your students feel part of a class rather than separate, isolated recipients of your teaching.
Evidence from existing online courses demonstrates that encouraging a sense of community will likely help maintain student satisfaction on your course, engagement, and retention.
See the section headed 'Seminar, tutorial and meeting alternatives'
This section of How to Moodle includes guides on:
Zoom
- Teaching with Zoom - Adding a Zoom meeting to your Moodle course - Linking your Zoom recording to your Moodle course - Zoom add-on for Outlook - Online meetings using Zoom
Teams
- Using Teams - Using Teams for group work - a UofG pilot study
For our full range of advice, see www.gla.ac.uk/HowToMoodle
These can be played back at 1x, 1.5x, or 2x speed:
- Using Moodle for Group Work (40 mins) - How to Set Up Presentation Recording and Submissions for Your Learners (30 mins) - Using Moodle Forums for Successful Online Engagement (38 mins) - Design Tips for PowerPoint (53 mins) - Copyright 101 for Remote Teaching (44 mins) - Digital Accessibility Regulations 2018 (49 mins)
You should then be redirected back to the recording.
For others, see the full list of upskilling sessions .
Your students will access your teaching and course information via Moodle.
Any activities you create for your students to access before / during / after / between timetabled sessions should therefore also be placed on Moodle where possible, to help students navigate their remote course in one central place and this will also help you build a coherent infrastructure.
How to Moodle includes guides on: - The University of Glasgow Moodle Minimum guidelines for all Moodle courses - Example activities (Book, Lesson, Quiz) - Reasons why you might pick one activity over another - Moodle accessibility - The use of Turnitin for similarity checking
- Using Moodle for Group Work (40 mins) - How to Set Up Presentation Recording and Submissions for Your Learners (30 mins) - Using Moodle Forums for Successful Online Engagement (38 mins) - Digital Accessibility Regulations 2018 (49 mins)
Students will also need to adapt to studying, learning, and researching in a remote or blended fashion.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/staff-support:
A resource to support staff in engaging with students through feedback
Uncover whats happening in the learning & teaching community
As you prepare for the coming semester, take note of the University of Glasgow support resources, tips for setting up your Moodle course, and some steps for success in your courses.
The Dashboards are now available for all staff at the University of Glasgow:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/about:
Learning & Teaching Strategy 2021 - 2025 [Full Version]
Learning & Teaching Strategy 2021 - 2025 [Summary]
Strategy on a page
What if every student at the University of Glasgow had the opportunity to engage in a curriculum that contains opportunity for work-related and experiential learning, that explores and addresses societal challenges such as climate action, sustainability and social justice?
The purpose of the Evolving Teaching Practice Workstream is to create a shared understanding and approach to developing and supporting active learning across the University.
This entails the articulation of long-term ambitions for active learning, consistent and coherent messaging around active learning and clear articulation of the requirements of the associated physical and digital infrastructure.
The Student Skills & Futures workstream is focused on implementing a key part of the Learning & Teaching Strategy by identifying opportunities to integrate skills development within the curriculum and out with.
This workstream aims to ensure that students are clear about the skills they are developing throughout their University journey.
Assessment & Feedback, Practice and Policy promotes the Vision and Principles as outlined in 'Learning Through Assessment' to enable enhancement to the University's approach to assessment and feedback.
View the progress reports relating to the workstreams under the Learning & Teaching Strategy [UofG staff only]

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/learningandteachingplanningdraft:
The Transformation Team are supporting a multiyear Timetabling project with the overall of aim of achieving the efficient and flexible utilisation of the University teaching estate.
Professor Moira Fischbacher-Smith, Vice Principal Learning & Teaching.
If you are a member of staff , please contact the team if you have any questions or concerns.
If you are a current or prospective student , we realise you may have questions too.
Please contact your School or course to get answers to any specific questions.
If you have any queries or questions about teaching planning or the project work, please contact the team .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/lisu:
Please visit our LISU SharePoint site (UofG login required) for upskilling opportunities, guidance on technologies used at UofG, and resources to help you create and develop online materials.
Or select a specific topic below.
We offer expert guidance and support to help staff identify, design and develop online courses across various platforms.
Expand and develop your knowledge with our tailored advice:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/learningandteachingplanning:
Our remit includes learning and teaching for all undergraduate students, postgraduate students, and taught programmes.
Submit a question to the team

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/coil-guidance:
This guidance is designed to help staff understand what is involved in integrating a Collaborative Online International Learning (COIL) component into a course, or creating a new COIL course, and how to go about doing this.
It is advised that all staff proposing a course that incorporates COIL activity, and the Boards of Study that are considering these proposals, read this guidance.
COIL stands for “Collaborative Online International Learning”.
These words refer to the defining characteristics of a COIL course:
Collaborative: Members of staff in the two (or more) collaborating institutions are co-teaching the course on an equal footing: students are put in a position of having to cooperate effectively and efficiently to produce the required outputs of the activity.
Online: The interaction between the students and staff in the two (or more) institutions for the COIL component of the course takes place mostly or exclusively online.
International: There is meaningful interaction between students and staff in two (or more) different countries, leading to the development of international and intercultural competences.
Learning: COIL is a learning activity and should be an integral part of the curriculum of a credit-bearing course, not an optional or inconsequential ‘extra’.
As such, the COIL component should be identifiable from the course ILOs.
COIL is a form of ‘virtual mobility’, and as such is a form of Internationalisation at Home which can be particularly valuable in enabling students who are unable, or choose not, to prioritise travel abroad as part of their studies to gain international and intercultural experiences during their degree.
Virtual mobility, including COIL, counts as mobility in terms of the University’s reporting of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in cases where it takes place over a period of five or more teaching days.
COIL exchanges most typically run over five weeks for a semester-long course, to eight weeks within a longer course.
The threshold for a course to be formally recognised as COIL is that the total student engagement with the partner(s) should last at least five teaching sessions from the start to the end date.
While there may be more than five activities or interactions planned (as illustrated in Models 2 and 5 above), there should be no fewer than five if the course is to qualify as COIL for the purposes of recording KPIs.
As illustrated in the table above, the COIL window opens with the first activity or interaction and should remain open until the related assessment has taken place.
In Model 2 above, for example, COIL activities are spread across ten weeks of the UofG semester, with two activities in Week 1 and two activities in Week 5, and then a final activity in Week 10, before a related assessment in Week 12.
In Model 5, on the other hand, COIL activities take place weekly across the final 6 weeks of the course, with the assessment in Week 12.
Note that while assessments are set locally, and are therefore not shared across institutions (see assessment in a COIL context Section), students may wish to continue their correspondence and access shared materials in preparation for assessment.
Therefore, the COIL window should remain open until after the assessment period is over.
At the University of Glasgow, we have not defined a set number of contact/group working hours or similar for COIL, beyond the 5 teaching session threshold set out above.
It is at the discretion of course convenors to determine the appropriate contact hours for a COIL activity to be meaningful in the context of their course and its ILOs.
This is also a key discussion to have with possible partners from the outset (see working with partner institutions section).
If you have any questions on the COIL guidance and want to discuss it with the Learning & Teaching Strategy Unit, please contact: strategy-learningandteaching@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/lecturerecording:
The lecture recording system we use at the University of Glasgow is called Echo360.
It can be used to record lectures in learning spaces on campus or for personal recording on your PC or device.
If you know in advance that you want to record your lectures, contact your lead school timetabler so your classes can be booked into a suitable room.
Note: by default this will be recorded, it is not possible to have a webcast without recording.
Live streaming or webcasting is in addition to your lecture recording and allows a broadcast of your lecture in real-time or near real-time.
In addition to the sources you are recording sound, presentation and video.
There is a Q&A feature to allow students to ask questions of the presenter and receive answers.
Students can ask questions anonymously or allow themselves to be identified

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/afresourceshub:
Learning Through Assessment Framework
Student Information
What is LTA?

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/activelearning:
About Active Learning
About the LT& Strategy

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/learningandteaching/staff-support/funding:
This page contains links to UofG funding that is likely to be of relevance to staff involved in learning and teaching.
Although we have tried to include all relevant links, this list is by no means definitive.
If you know of a relevant UofG initiative that should be included, please let us know strategy-learningandteaching@gla.ac.uk.
Funding for travel could possibly be met by the International Partnership Development Fund (IPDF) which is open for all types of international collaboration.
Collaborative Online International Learning (COIL) related applications are looked favourably upon.
Attention is also drawn to the Chancellor’s Fund which supports innovative projects that have potential impact across the University and wider community.
This fund supports the scholarship of  teaching and learning , that is, the evaluation of learning, teaching and assessment in higher education, and has been created to support work that will provide insight into the enhancement of learning and teaching and create an evidence base for change.
[UofG Sign-In Required]
The Learning and Teaching Development Fund (LTDF) supports developments in the practice of learning and teaching that will contribute to the enhancement of learning and teaching across the University and to the delivery of the objectives of the Learning and Teaching Strategy .
All University of Glasgow staff are eligible to bid for funds, and LTDF funding may be used to match other funding.
The learning and teaching student-staff partnership schemes have been established to specifically target co-creation partnership work between students and members of academic staff to work together in ways that reflect the commitments in the Learning and Teaching Strategy.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/learning:
Supporting your learning
Talk to a effective learning advisor :

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/StudentPortal:
Loading login session information from the browser...

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/sset:
Submit an Enquiry Online: Submit your enquiry on the UofG Helpdesk.
Location: Level 2, The Fraser Building 65 Hillhead Street Glasgow, G12 8QF
Open Hours: 9am to 4:45pm Monday to Friday Open at 10am on Tuesdays
Feedback: How did we handle your enquiry or request?
We welcome your feedback and suggestions.
Students can log into MyCampus self-service to independently produce certifying letters and transcripts.
The UofG Helpdesk is where students can search for answers using the knowledge base, or submit requests for help or services.
Learn how to get more out of the UofG Helpdesk with our guides.
If you need a form filled out by the Student Services Enquiry Team please upload a copy of it to the UofG Helpdesk.
Many banks now accept self service certifying letters.
Students who have completed their academic registration can produce their own bank letters on MyCampus.
Learn how to navigate MyCampus with our guides.
MyCampus can be used to manage your student record and university finances, or to produce your own certifying letters and transcripts.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/getinvolved:
Short and full year international study opportunities, paid industry placements, and internships

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/student-body-elections:
As University of Glasgow students you have a unique opportunity to have a say in shaping your student experience.
UofG students can vote in four different elections for our four student bodies!
Explore each of the student bodies to find out how they represent your student experience and how you can get involved whether you're running for election, volunteering or voting!
Glasgow University Students' Representative Council exists to promote the interests of students to the University and beyond, alongside providing a range of support services as well as social and personal development opportunities.
Find out more about SRC Elections
GUSA provides effective opportunities for students to participate in sport by coordinating club sport, recreational leagues, health and fitness classes, specialist courses and drop-in sessions.
Find out more about GUSA 2025 elections
The GUU provides a unique array of spaces, events and services for both students and guests - with a packed array of events across term time and a calendar of major events throughout the year.
Find out more about GUU Elections
The Queen Margaret Union is proud to be known as progressive, inclusive and welcoming and this is much more than a slogan.
These values are at the heart of what we do and have been from our foundation over 130 years ago.
Find out more about QMU Elections

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/enterprise:
From inspired ideas to the next business start-up, we support students throughout their journey
Learn more about Student Enterprise at University of Glasgow
Book an appointment with an adviser
Attend our events and mingle with like-minded entrepreneurs.
Learn from speakers reflecting on their own business journey.
Find out about our latest competitions.
Join our workshops on business startup, business planning, market research, financial planning, IP & legal structures and pitching.
Learn more about the support we can give you to successfully launch your own business
Already running a business?
Find all our resources to support your journey here
Find out about successfully launched and operating student businesses at University of Glasgow.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/studentsafeguarding:
Please access our Crisis Support webpages for staff and students if you require immediate support in an emergency.
The University of Glasgow believes that all individuals have a right to learn and develop within a safe environment and is committed to protecting children and adults who may be at risk of abuse, harm or neglect.
The University is committed to promoting the welfare of children and adults at risk of abuse, harm or neglect; who chose to study at the University either as a student or an apprenticeship learner.
The University of Glasgow takes seriously its responsibility to safeguard and promote the welfare of any member of the University community and to work together with other agencies to ensure that adequate arrangements are in place to identify, assess, and support any member of the University community who may be suffering from abuse, harm or neglect; or is at risk of being drawn into terrorism and being radicalised.
The University of Glasgow safeguarding responsibilities relate to:
The safeguarding of children and adults at risk in addition to all of the wider University community consisting of staff, students, apprenticeship learners, visitors and contractors engaged by the University and anyone who may come into contact with a child or an adult at risk; as part of their work; or associated activities.
The policy is applicable in respect of all activities, including leisure centre activities and research activities.
All members of staff who come into contact with children and/or adults at risk are in a position of trust and are responsible for being aware of this and should act accordingly in ensuring their role in the University’s duty of care is fully carried out.
Safeguardingteam@glasgow.ac.uk
You can submit a report and request support via our reporting tool here .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/new/checklist:
Preparing for your arrival at UofG may feel daunting so we've compiled a checklist to guide you through what you need to do and when.
We can't wait to welcome you to Team UofG!
- Register (Academic and Financial) - Enrol (Courses and Classes)

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/internationalstudentwelcome:
View the September Welcome programme here.
Find out all you need to know about arriving in Glasgow to start your student journey
Facebook
Email

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/upcomingevents/welcomeeventscheduleseptember:
Please note all times are in UK time.
Campus map and directions
Date: Tuesday, 9 September
Time: 10.00-12.00
Location: JMSLH
Our International Student Induction is designed to help you settle into life in the UK and at the University.
Meet student support staff and find out about all the services offered on campus!
Date: Wednesday, 10 September Time: 10:00 - 12:00 Location: Fraser Building, Level 3
Drop into the Fraser Building for some tea or coffee!
Chat to some of our student support colleagues and meet other international students.
Join the waitlist
Date: Wednesday, 10 September Time: 18:00-20:00 Location: Bute Hall
What is a ceilidh?
Ceilidh is Scots Gaelic for party and that is exactly what it is: a ceilidh (kay-lee) is a traditional Scottish dance.
A ceilidh is a great way to meet new people & it is always great fun.
You don't need to worry if you don't know how to do the dances- our awesome band will be there to give you instructions.
Come along & give it a go!
Date: Thursday, 11 September Time: 14:30-16:30 Location: Fraser Building level 4
All are welcome to join us for a fun workshop session exploring Chinese culture through craft activities, tea and conversation.
Date: Thursday, 11 September Time: 14:30-16:00 Location: Glasgow University Union Billiards Hall
Pool (also known as billiards) and snooker are popular games in the UK.
Come learn how to play and meet other new students.
No experience necessary!
Date: Friday, 12 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Join fellow UofG students on a tour of campus and the surrounding areas.
Find out everything you need to know about being a student and settling into life in Glasgow - including the best places to study or grab a coffee!
Date: Friday, 12 September Time: 13:00-14:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Friday, 12 September Time: 11:30-13:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Drop by with your lunch to meet support staff from Student Services, Blankets provided – Weather dependent!
Date: Friday, 12 September Time: 13:00-14:00 Location: Cloisters
Join us for a peaceful yoga session in the beautiful historic Cloisters.
This gentle, inclusive class is perfect for new students looking to unwind, connect with others, and find a moment of calm amidst university life.
No experience necessary - all levels welcome!
Date: Friday, 12 September Time: TBC Location: The Wyre Stadium at Firhill
Join us to support our local team Partick Thistle Football club at their home stadium The Wyre Stadium at Firhill!
£10 instead of £18 using Promo Code GU8OFF, select 'Jackie Husband - Home' then 'Concession' ticket option
Date: Saturday, 13 September Time: 11:00-12:30
Get your bearings and explore Glasgow’s city centre on foot with a local, expert guide!
Date: Saturday, 13 September Time: 14:00-15:30
Immerse yourself in a different side to Glasgow on this unique street art and modern culture tour.
Date: Sunday, 14 September Time: 11:00-12:30
Date: Sunday, 14 September Time: 14:00-15:30
Date: Monday, 15 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Monday, 15 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: University Chapel
Sisters Together is a group at UofG where you can meet other women students to make inter-cultural connections and friendships.
At this session, you can explore making bracelets.
Prefer not to make bracelets?
There will also be big games (think big jenga)!
Date: Monday, 15 September Time: 13:00-14:00 Location: Fraser building level 4
In this informal and informative session, participants will learn more about Gaelic language and culture through a variety of interactive activities delivered by Gaelic speaker.
Date: Monday, 15 September Time: 13:00-14:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Tuesday, 16 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Tuesday, 16 September Time: 12:00pm Location: The Mackintosh House
Join us for a guided tour and explore the fascinating story of the artists, their house and the Mackintosh collection!
Date: Tuesday, 16 September Time: 13:00-14:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Tuesday, 16 September Time: 14:30-16:00 Location: Glasgow University Union Billiards Hall
Date: Tuesday, 16 September Time: 15:30-16:30 Location: Fraser building level 4
Find out about the benefits of walking in the beautiful Scottish countryside!
Date: Wednesday.
17 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Wednesday, 17 September Time: 11:30-13:30
The Ubiquitous Chip, located on Ashton Lane was established in January 1971.
Discover the history, artwork and a taste of Scottish cuisine with the dedicated chefs and staff.
Date: Wednesday, 17 September Time: 14:00-16:00
Join us for a tour of Wyre Stadium at Firhill, home of local football team Partick Thistle since 1909!
Date: Wednesday, 17 September Time: 13:00-14:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Wednesday, 17 September Time: 16:00-18:00 Location: To be confirmed
Drop in, make some friends and play some fun games!
Discover more about Scottish culture while having a chance to share some of your culture with us!
Date: Thursday, 18 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Thursday, 18 September
Time: 10.30-12.30
Location: Meeting at main gate
Interested in seeing the diversity of Glasgow firsthand?
Join us for a tour of the nearby Sikh Gurdwara (Temple) to learn more about the Sikh religion and experience 'langar', a FREE vegetarian lunch!
Date: Thursday, 18 September Time: 12:00 - 13:00 Location: Hunterian Art Gallery
At Look Club, we'll explore artworks together, starting from scratch with no prior knowledge or historical context.
There are no right or wrong answers, only opinions and perspectives.
Enjoy this unique session to think deeply and share a space for listening.
Come along and meet new people, increase your own sense of confidence and take time to be culturally curious!
Date: Thursday, 18 September Time: 13:00-14:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Friday, 19 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Friday, 19 September Time: 11:00-13:00 Location: Meeting outside Fraser Building
Explore one of Europe's most visited museums at your own pace!
Kelvingrove's diverse collection spans art, natural history, and cultural artifacts - from Salvador Dalí's Christ of Saint John of the Cross to a real Spitfire hanging from the ceiling.
Date: Friday, 19 September Time: 18:00 - 20:00 Location: Hunterian museum
Join us for an exclusive after-hours evening at the museum — a rare chance to explore our collections when the doors are closed to the public.
Enjoy a relaxing night of activities, including tours, crafts and music !
Complimentary refreshments will be served.
Date: Friday, 19 September Time: 13:00-14:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Saturday, 20 September Time: 11:00-12:30
Date: Saturday, 20 September Time: 14:00-15:30
Date: Sunday, 21 September Time: 11:00-12:30
Date: Sunday, 21 September Time: 14:00-15:30
Date: Monday, 22 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Monday, 22 September Time: 12:00-14:00 Location: Meeting outside the Fraser Building
Date: Monday, 22 September Time: 13:00-14:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Tuesday, 23 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Tuesday, 23 September Time: 10:00-11:00 Location: Fraser building, level 4
Take a break from the demands of university life and join us for a gentle mindfulness session.
Learn simple breathing techniques, guided meditation, and stress-reduction practices that you can use anywhere.
No prior experience needed!
Date: Tuesday, 23 September Time: 13:00-14:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Wednesday, 24 September Time: 10:00-11:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building
Date: Wednesday, 24 September Time: 12:00-14:00 Location: Meeting outside Main Gate
Open to students of all faiths (or none).
The University Chaplain and student leaders of campus faith societies will give you a tour of places of worship, reflection and prayer on campus before meeting back at the Chaplaincy to eat FREE PIZZA!
Date: Wednesday, 24 September Time: 12:00pm Location: The Mackintosh House
Date: Wednesday, 24 September Time: 13:00-14:30 Location: Meet outside the Fraser Building

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/registration:
Registration
We're so glad you're here.
Before you become an official University of Glasgow student, you must now complete Registration .
You must re-register through MyCampus every academic year, before the start of your programme of study.
You will receive details of how to log into MyCampus to your email inbox.
If you are a part-time student, we strongly advise you to complete your enrolment before you complete your financial registration.
If you add courses to your academic schedule after completing the financial registration, your fees will be recalculated.
It is your responsibility to make sure your fee payment plan is adjusted to cover the fees due.
International students must also attend Visa Registration after arriving in the United Kingdom.
Undergraduate: New Students: From 18th August Continuing Students: From 6th August
Postgraduate Taught: From 11th August
Postgraduate Research: From 4th August
Further Information
→ I am a new home student (UK-based)
→ I am a new international student
→ I am a returning home student (UK-based)
→ I am a returning international student
→ I am an exchange / Study Abroad student
Registration is available for eligible students on a phased basis.
Once access is granted, and around one month prior to your course start date, you will receive an email containing instructions on how to register through MyCampus.
Eligible students will have:
→ Met all conditions of the offer
→ Formally accepted the offer
→ Met the requirements for progression into the next year of study
To check if you are eligible to register, view your Academic Standing in MyCampus Student Center .
If you have debt remaining on your account, you will not be able to register until it is cleared.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/enrolment:
Picking Your Courses
Enrolment is the process of choosing your courses and classes to build your timetable for the year.
This includes your main lectures and any seminars, tutorials, labs etc, the structure of which will depend on your degree programme.
Enrolment can be started once you have completed Academic Registration.
If you have yet to do this please complete academic registration .
Once academic registration is complete you will recieve a notification which will prompt you to enrol via MyCampus following the guidance on compulsory, recommended and optional courses for your degree programme.
As a student, it is your responsibility to select courses for both Semester 1 and Semester 2, although support can be provided if you are having difficulties.
The following applies to majority of students.
However, in some instances this may be different depending on your degree programme, if so please contact your School.
Academic Year Explained
Students are expected to enrol into three courses per semester, with the full academic year consisting of two semesters.
Degree credits Explained
You will be required to enrol in 120 credits per academic year, 60 per semester.
You can enrol in these credits via different combination of classes and through compulsory and optional courses.
Compulsory Courses Explained
Courses that must be enrolled into as a compulsory element of your degree programme.
A minimum of two must be selected per semester.
Optional Courses Explained
You will have the ability to select optional courses from a range of options, it is worth considering how these choices align to your chosen degree programme.
MyCampus Explained
MyCampus is the system used for students picking the courses needed to complete a degree programme.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/sset/rest:
Our Student Helpers can help you with any registration and enrolment questions you may have, or escalate issues.
Log on to the UofG Helpdesk and click on the chat bubble icon on the bottom right hand corner of the screen.
Available 09:00 - 17:00, Monday to Friday.
Alternatively, submit an online help request.
Visit the Student Finance, Records and Documents webpage for comprehensive information and guides on student finances and available support.
Colleges and Schools have provided further guidance where there is additional or specific information relating to your programme of study.
Visit the Registry Enrolment webpage for more information.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/sset/campuscards:
It gives you access to:
Before you can receive your card, make sure you've completed:
You can request a replacement if your card is:
How to Request a Replacement Campus Card
PGDE Students (Education Primary or Secondary, including Dumfries campus)
Access & Short Courses
Online Courses
Home & rUK students in Murano Street Student Village
International Students in Murano Street Student Village
All other students
Please note the following University regulation on identification for examinations.
Every candidate shall display for the invigilator's inspection a valid Student ID card or other form of photographic identification.
While a campus card is preferable in this instance, it is not essential if you have another form of photographic identification - for example, a drivers licence or passport.
Please do not cause yourself unnecessary stress by rushing to procure a replacement campus card prior to your examinations.
Use the UofG Helpdesk Knowledge Base to find answers to your questions, or submit a request through the Service Catalogue if you need more help.
Can't find what you need from our Knowledge Base or Service Catalogue?
Submit a help request.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/costoflivingsupport:
We can offer you a wide range of support, to assist you with the cost of living.
If you think you’re in financial difficulty now and require support, please go to the Financial Aid webpages linked below to find out more about which funds you’re eligible to access.
There’s lots that you can do to prevent getting into financial difficulty.
Check with your student finance body ( SAAS , SFE , SFNI , SFW ) to make sure you’ve applied for all the loans and grants that you’re eligible to receive.
Some UK students may also be eligible for welfare benefits during their studies, contact the SRC advice centre who can carry out a full benefit check for you.
Student Support Officers are available in each college, to talk through challenges and to signpost you to the right support services.
If your financial situation is getting difficult, check if you’re eligible for financial aid.
There are a variety of funds available that support students in different circumstances.
It’s important you check you’re eligible before applying, so read the information carefully.
If you’re in financial difficulty currently...
...apply for financial aid
Financial aid is available for any student (UK, EU and International, PGR, PGT and UG) facing financial hardship.
There is a short application form to fill in, and then the financial aid team will assess your eligibility and make an award recommendation if you’re successful.
Not sure who to speak to?
Looking for support with submitting an application for Financial Aid?
Contact :
If you are feeling overwhelmed and in need of some emotional support, the University offers a variety of resources to help you.
Published 8 October 2024
Published 11 November 2024
Published 11 October 2024
Published 19 April 2024
Published 13 December 2024

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sld/t2g:
Two weeks from 18–29 August , just before Freshers’ Week, designed to help you settle into life and study at UofG.
Open to all new undergraduates, it’s a great way to meet students and staff.
You can take part online or in person —no need to be in Glasgow to join.
You’ll complete a core module plus two electives of your choice, with large lectures and small group tutorials.
Topics range from ' Biotechnology Through the Decades' and 'Discarding the Dark Ages' to '21st Century Neurorehabilitation' and 'Drop, Distract, or Play Dead: How to Avoid Being Eaten' - all taught by UofG staff and researchers here in the department known as Student Learning Development.
Complete the course and submit your assignment to earn credit for the Academic Writing Skills Programme (AWSP) , getting ahead before the semester even begins.
Fill out the form below to note your interest:
The two weeks of the course will be split up into different modules.
Your core module – the one that everyone takes – will run on Mondays and Fridays.
You’ll be in some large lectures, and we’ll look at core topics relevant to your broad subject area.
On Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, you’ll be in your two elective modules.
These will be modules that you pick.
In the electives, you’ll be in small groups working on particular topics and looking at areas of discussion.
You’ll also have access to a wealth of what’s called asynchronous materials.
These materials will be there for you to study in advance of an elective class or to help you prepare, for example, for your elective assignment.
You can work through these yourself.
And, you’ll get to be involved (if you want!) with some clubs, societies and student activities.
These’ll be put on specifically for new students, so it’ll be your opportunity to get to meet other students joining us in September.
Think of it as a mini Freshers’ Week in advance of Freshers’ Week!
If you’re a new undergraduate student joining us in September, then yes!
T2G is designed specifically for you as a new UofG undergraduate, so you’ll study alongside other students joining us for the first time.
You’ll need to be available and willing to take part in a full course of study from 18 August to 29 August.
You can attend online or face-to-face, so you won’t need to be physically in Glasgow, but you will need to give the time to attend the classes.
Don’t worry if you can’t attend T2G at the time.
We’ll put some of what’s available on your core courses after you start with us at Glasgow, and you’ll be automatically enrolled in your courses.
T2G isn’t compulsory, but we hope that you’ll join us!
If you have any questions about T2G that we haven't answered here, get in touch directly: T2G@glasgow.ac.uk
Alternatively, find us on our Twitter account for news about what else we're doing: @UofGSLD

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/tier4/responsibilities:
Student Visa Responsibilities
As a Student or Tier 4 Visa holder, there are numerous conditions to which you must adhere.
If you hold a Student Visa or Tier 4 Visa, it is a requirement for you to engage with and participate in all areas of your programme of study.
As a condition of the University's Student Sponsor Licence, we are required by law to monitor your attendance and engagement.
We are also required to notify the Home Office if you withdraw from your programme of study or fail to attend and engage to a satisfactory level.
Engaging with your studies means:
You must evidence your attendance at, and engagement with, your studies throughout your time with us.
For undergraduate and postgraduate taught students, this will be done via attendance recording using an app called the SafeZone app .
For postgraduate research students and for postgraduate taught students during the dissertation/project, this will be done using a UofG HelpDesk Engagement form.
If you are an Undergraduate student who is unable to attend a timetabled activity for any reason (eg illness), please see the Student Absence Policy .
If you have an issue that may prevent you from engaging with your studies for a longer period, it is very important that you discuss this with your School.
Undergraduate students are not usually required to attend or engage with their studies over the summer holiday period.
Please see the these webpages for more information on session dates .
If you are a Postgraduate Taught student who is unable to attend a timetabled activity for any reason (eg illness), please see the Student Absence Policy .
Dissertation and Project Period
If you are studying a one-year Master's programme on a Student Visa, your Visa will usually be sponsored for study in the UK for the full 12 months of the programme, including the semester where you will work on your dissertation/project.
During this period, you are still classed as a full-time student , and your Visa requires you to remain in Glasgow, study on campus, and log a meeting at least once each month.
> Log your meetings via the Helpdesk
If you wish to have a short holiday of up to 3 weeks away from Glasgow, you are not required to seek permission from your School, provided that you are not required to attend any meetings or preparatory sessions during this time.
Absences of more than 3 weeks during this period will result in withdrawal of sponsorship, and loss of eligibility for the Graduate Visa.
If you wish to write and submit your dissertation/project from outside the UK, you must consult with your School first.
If you are granted permission, the University will inform UKVI that they are no longer sponsoring your Student Visa, and your Visa will be curtailed .
You can still complete your programme remotely and graduate, but you will not be able to use your student visa to re-enter the UK and you will not be eligible for the Graduate Visa.
Important note about the Graduate Visa: Remember that where you are studying a 12-month programme, this programme must be studied entirely in the UK for you to be eligible for the Graduate Visa.
For more information on this, see the UKVI webpage .
If you are Postgraduate Research student, you are required to engage with your studies full time throughout the academic year, with the exception of any brief periods of annual leave.
Annual leave arranged with the agreement of your supervisors and graduate school will not impact your visa sponsorship.
However, if you require a long period of absence, please see below section for how this may impact your visa If you need to leave the UK for personal reasons or for research, please see PGR policy, strategy & support or contact your Graduate School.
For you, engagement also entails:
You may need to suspend your studies due to personal , medical , financial , or other reasons.
Suspensions of 60 days or less: If your School or College gives you approval to be absent for a period of 60 days or less , your Visa sponsorship will continue, and your Student or Tier 4 Visa will allow you to stay in or re-enter the UK to resume your studies later.
Suspensions of more than 60 days: If your School or College gives you approval to be absent for more than 60 days , the University is required to withdraw sponsorship of your Visa.
If you are in the UK, you will need to leave the UK and apply for a new Visa when you are ready to return to resume your studies.
This also applies to suspensions of study requested for maternity leave.
If you are considering suspending or deferring your studies, please contact International Student Support .
The app will work on iPhones (iOS v13+) and Android phones (Android v7+).
Every time you attend a class.
Individual gaps aren’t a problem, just make sure that you check in for your next class.
You will automatically be checked out when you leave the area you checked in to.
There’s no requirement to do this manually, but you can if you wish.
You may find that you are still checked in from your previous class.
Simply tap ‘Check Out’ and then ‘Check In’ at the start of your next class to create a new, separate entry for your next class.
No, the app is designed to be non-intensive with regards to battery usage.
If you are unwell for seven consecutive days, you should record this on MyCampus as per the current student absence policy .
At the moment, yes.
You may be asked to registered attendance at your class by your lecturers.
At the moment, you will need to register attendance on the SafeZone app for UKVI purposes and separately for your class lecturer/tutor.
Your data is processed securely by University staff in the United Kingdom.
SafeZone app information is handled and stored by CriticalArc (the SafeZone app provider).
Your data will be shared with relevant University staff, CriticalArc (the SafeZone app provider), and UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI).
Aligned to the University About the SafeZone app , all UG and PGT students are expected to attend all timetabled classes and examinations contributing to summative assessment.
Student visa holders are expected to document their attendance at all timetabled teaching events to ensure we have all the information needed for engagement monitoring.
The minimum requirement is to document attendance for at least 1 contact point per week during teaching time.
Engagement is measured through recording any of the following contact points:
What if my phone doesn’t support SafeZone or I don’t have a mobile phone?
We can, in some cases, help you to purchase a new mobile phone.
This will be done using the Financial Support Fund: https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/finance/funds/finsupfund/
This fund is available to help cover the costs of purchasing a mobile phone, but is limited and will require an application process.
All students will continue to have their engagement monitored through the usual local process, which can include displaying QR codes in class meetings.
Additionally, UG and PGT student visa holders must download the SafeZone App and login using their student/@glasgow.ac.uk email address and ‘check in’ during their timetabled teaching events.
A student is not able to ‘check in’ from social spaces on campus.
Therefore, all student visa holders must check in during the time of their class (10 minutes before and up to 10 minutes after the end of their class) from the building where they are scheduled to attend.
PGT students during the dissertation/project period, and PGR students year-round will be required to fill in the engagement form in UofG Helpdesk on a monthly basis, which will be approved by the supervisor.
The form should be used by all PGR students and PGT students during the dissertation/project period.
This must be used instead of any other forms of documenting engagement and interaction with supervisors.
The engagement form can be used for the following types of engagement, which can be selected from the type of meeting drop-down:
Students can access the form by searching ‘engagement form’ in UofG Helpdesk.
Monthly engagements need to be documented via the engagement form.
This includes at least a monthly meeting with the supervisor during the research, dissertation/project phases.
Yes, students should submit the engagement form on UofG HelpDesk within 5 working days of the engagement taking place.
Supervisors then have 15 working days to approve the form.
For this please use the Coursework submission option.
Yes, both students and supervisors can initiate the engagement form.
If the supervisor doesn’t confirm the meeting, they will receive reminders to do so.
If the supervisor denies the record, this will be escalated to the School/College to investigate.
If the student chooses to write up and submit their final thesis/dissertation/project away from Glasgow, from their home country or elsewhere, they need to request permission from their school.
Student visa holders whose request has been granted will no longer require their Student Visa and the University must inform UKVI that we are withdrawing visa sponsorship.
The student would need to leave the UK (if they have not already), and the engagement monitoring requirements that apply to visa holders would no longer apply.
PGR/PGT students should record absences in MyCampus ().
If students are not able to submit a monthly engagement form due to being absent,Immigration Compliance will check if there is any record of approved absence.
Students should submit an engagement form as soon as possible after their absence.
Schools/RIs remain responsible for ensuring that students on placement continue to engage remotely.
To satisfy this requirement, students must continue to meet monthly with their supervisor and submit engagement forms as usual.
These meetings can be virtual for Research Furth of Glasgow placements (those allowed to conduct research at institutions outside the University of Glasgow).
The secondary supervisor can also validate the form in case the first supervisor is not available.
No, the engagement form needs to be initiated by the student or the supervisor.
It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that they document a monthly contact point.
Previously submitted engagement forms can be accessed in MyItems in UofG helpdesk.
The supervisor can add comments when responding to the student-initiated form.
Your Visa is issued for study on a specific course or programme, and there are only limited circumstances under which you can change to a different one midway through your studies.
UK immigration rules only allow Student Visa holders at the University to change to a different programme if all of the following circumstances are met:
Read more about ATAS Clearance
If these circumstances are not met, you may need to obtain a new Visa to embark on your new course.
You may or may not be able to apply for a new Visa inside the UK.
When you register on MyCampus, you must provide us with your term-time contact details .
This should include:
If any of these contact details change, you must update them by logging onto your MyGlasgow account.
Please see Personal Information Updates if you are not sure how to do that.
If you get a new passport or a new BRP (or other type of physical immigration document) during your studies, please upload a copy here .
If you get a new eVisa (including Settled Status), please get a share code and submit it here .
We recommend linking your eVisa to your most current passport to avoid issues at the border, or when travelling.
For further information on this, please see this video .
If you receive a UK Passport or Certificate of Naturalisation from the UK Government during your studies, pleas upload a copy here .
You are also required to inform the Home Office of any changes.
You must update your UKVI account to reflect any changes in your passport & travel documents, name, address and nationality.
For information on this, please see the International Student Support webpage .
If you notice that your eVisa has an error on it, you must report this straight away using the online form on the GOV.UK website.
Errors may include, but are not limited to, things such as:
Students studying on a Student Visa or Tier 4 Visa at the University of Glasgow are generally allowed to work under the following conditions:
For most Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students, 'term-time' is defined as the University's official semester dates .
Some programmes, however, may follow a different calendar.
Please consult with your School for more information.
Postgraduate Taught students working on their dissertation/project during the summer semester are still in 'term-time', and are therefore still subject to the weekly working limit.
The weekly limit does not apply for students who have completed their programme (this means completed all required classes, submissions and assessments) and where the course end date on their CAS has passed but their visa is still valid.
This is known as the Visa 'Wrap-Up' period.
Postgraduate Research students do not have designated vacation periods.
Their weekly working limit applies year-round, except for periods of approved annual leave, and the University's period of closure over Christmas and New Year.
If you work for more than one employer and/or more than one University department concurrently, the cumulative number of hours you work must not exceed your total limit .
A week is defined as a period of 7 days starting on a Monday and ending on a Sunday.
The following types of work are completely prohibited for Student Visa holders:
Working permissions should always be shown on your Entry Clearance Vignette and/or the letter that you received when your visa application was approved.
A breach of working conditions is a very serious offence which can result in detention , removal from the UK and automatic refusals of future UK Visa applications .
Read more about working permissions
Students here as Standard Visitors (regardless of whether they needed to apply for a visa or not) are not permitted to work in the UK, including on work placements.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/apps:
Contact a dedicated wellbeing counsellor using live messaging and video calls, with further support available via 24/7 helpline.
Access personalised resources and learning materials, and track your mood, setup health plans and health checks.
Open Online Portal Organisation Code - MHA240962
Check your timetable, book rooms, and navigate campus in your browser or on mobile.
View Web Version
Help the UofG Security Team find you in case of emergency and request first-aid for yourself or others.
Also, for student visa holders to record their attendance.
Watch Safezone Video
Bookmark and book classes and activities with real-time alerts and personalised updates.
Access the Stevenson Building with the App and membership.
Your personalised hub for everything SRC.
Navigate clubs & societies, events & tickets, support & advice, and volunteering opportunities effortlessly.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/visiting/studyabroadexchange/registrationenrolment:
In order to become a fully registered student you need to
Carefully follow the information below for details on what to do.
There are two parts to the registration process: the Academic Registration and the Financial Registration.
Consult the registration pages for guidance on when you should complete registration and how to proceed.
The Visiting Students team will also provide step-by-step details on the University of Glasgow registration process.
Check the registration pages to find out when you can register.
Academic registration must be completed as soon as possible so that the Visiting Students team can enrol you on classes before you arrive.
If you are paying your own fees yourself, view the information on Registration – specifically step 4 Financial Registration.
Please make sure that the fees shown match the fee information provided in your offer letter before completing any payment.
If they do not match, and you think the fees you are being asked to pay are incorrect, please contact the Visiting Students team .
If you are a visiting exchange student and your fees are waived as part of the exchange you should be taken straight to the acceptance page without having to enter any financial information.
If your home institution will pay your tuition fees, they will send us a sponsor letter which we will then upload to your student record.
You should not need to upload this letter yourself unless we specifically ask you to.
You may see tuition fees on your student record, but this will be moved from your account by our Finance team and you do not need to make any payment to the University of Glasgow for your tuition fees.
Completion of your financial registration will not delay your class enrolment.
As an international student you also need to attend Visa Registration as the last step in the registration process.
This is essential to make sure you are a fully registered student at the University of Glasgow.
Please remember:
Process for class enrolment:
Your course enrolment will be fully finalised once you arrive in Glasgow.
Year of Entry: You are recorded as a first-year student .
This is because it is your first year of study at the University of Glasgow.
This is for administrative purposes and will not affect the level of class you can take.
This status will not be changed.
‌If you require a visa to study at the University of Glasgow, you will need to register your visa to complete the registration process.
Check the Visa Registration page for information on how to register your visa on arrival and for Student route visa rules during your studies.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/accommodation:
Undergraduate admissions policy
Postgraduate admissions policy
Study Abroad/Exchange admissions policy
Find out more at https://uofgliving.gla.ac.uk/

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/counselling:
Support from Counselling & Wellbeing Services is just one part of the support open to you.
The university provides support for a range of issues, and you can find out more about these below.
Please have a look at these initially to help you identify what might be of most help.
Do you need to speak to someone now?
Call our 24/7 Counselling and Advice Line on 0800 028 3766.
Download the Wisdom App to contact a dedicated wellbeing counsellor using live messaging and video calls.
Email: studentcounselling@glasgow.ac.uk Call: +44 (0)141 330 4528 Address: Level 1, Fraser Building, Glasgow G12 8QF (Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm)
Leave us feedback
View our policies
For threat to life emergencies: Immediately call 999 Notify Campus Security (Gilmorehill 0141 330 4444/ Garscube 0141 330 2222)

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/localstudentorientation:
The Local Student Orientation was developed through a research project to understand experiences of local ‘commuter’ or ‘home’ students at the University of Glasgow, and this informed the development of the activities to support and encourage early and ongoing engagement with University life from induction week onwards.
This event is now established as part of our transition activities for local and widening participation students and runs each September in the week before Freshers’ Week.
From 2014-2019 we welcomed over 500 new local students annually at the campus for the day event.
In 2021/22, the provision pivoted to hybrid format and was delivered over a week both on campus and online - via Microsoft Teams, Zoom and Moodle; the platforms used as a student at UofG.
Local Student Orientation 2025 is hybrid again and dates are Wednesday 10th - Friday 12th September 2024
Registrations are now open: https://forms.office.com/e/d5GqR94NPD
Widening Participation
This is a great opportunity particularly for new local students who are not moving into University Halls, or new students who don’t know many others starting at UofG, to meet people and get an early introduction to the University and student life, to get yourself up for a great start to the year, already familiar with some aspects of the online learning environment.
Both online and on campus, there is the opportunity to meet other students in the UofG College who are going to be studying the same or similar subjects.
Meet with our current students and hear what student life is really like and get more information about starting university.
There are live sessions where student’s questions are answered by staff and students.
Research and evaluation continues to show this event has a positive impact on the students’ experiences of starting University and that attendees are more likely to continue in their studies beyond year 1.
The Local Student Orientation is for new students from west of Scotland schools and colleges, and for anyone from across the country who has taken part in one of our pre-entry programmes or is receiving pre-entry support from the Widening Participation team.
Pre-entry programmes include Top-Up, Reach and Summer Schools, as well as SWAP or Open Studies Access courses.
Eligible new undergraduate students will receive an email in August with the link to register for the Local Student Orientation.
For more information, please contact:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/new/study:
Some classes have a minimum attendance requirement so if you’re going to miss several days or more, you must notify your:
You also must complete a MyCampus absence report for any significant absence.
Different courses put up booklists at various times.
This might be during your programme induction and orientation during Freshers’ Week, or during Week 1 of teaching.
Courses also publish booklists on Moodle, the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) that forms part of the suite of online services that you will use as a Glasgow student.
Once you have your Glasgow University ID (GUID), you will be able to log in and gain access.
Once you have your book/reading lists, you don t necessarily need to rush out and buy them.
The Library has most essential course books.
Visit the Library site
Lectures usually finish 5 minutes before the hour and start at 5 past giving you 10 minutes to get from one to the other.
This should be enough time for most situations although it might be a problem for anyone with mobility issues.
If this may affect you, please contact the Disability Service as soon as possible.
Visit the Disability Service website
You also won’t be the only person going from one lecture to another so you will soon get into the swing of things.
If it’s an occasional one off and you’re just a few minutes late, generally nothing will happen - you can usually still get in to a lecture, seminar, tutorial or lab.
You should always try to be on time so that:
If you do miss something, it is your responsibility to catch up.
You can email your relevant tutor or lecturer, check Moodle for presentations, notes etc., and/or speak to friends in the class.
Remember, you can use our Roomfinder app to help navigate to your classroom.
Access the Roomfinder app now
In between lectures, labs, seminars, tutorials, and of course the all-important self-study discover the range of Learning Enhancement & Academic Development Service workshops to help you get the most out of your studies.
The Learning Enhancement & Academic Development Service also offer dedicated Effective Learning Advisers for each College, Maths & Stats Advisers and an Academic Writing Centre.
Visit the Learning Enhancement & Academic Development Service site.
Don't forget, you can contact your Adviser of Studies (your first port of call) any time of the year, if you need support.
You will find details of your Adviser of Studies in your MyCampus Student Center.
You start to build your timetable as you enrol for your courses and classes.
You enrol in MyCampus, and you can see your timetable there too.
Find out more about enrolment .
Browse helpful resources and get support you need to make the most of your time at the University of Glasgow

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/digitalaccessibility/students:
In addition to existing accessibility provisions, new regulations for digital accessibility began to come into force in September 2019.
For students this means two things:
It is important that you familiarise yourself with the guidance below:
To provide a more accessible, flexible and inclusive learning experience the University is providing transcripts and/or captions for video and audio recordings.
Having written text may help you understand what is said in the recordings and may make it easier to navigate through recorded material.
Do not expect transcripts or captions to be completely accurate.
The University is keen to hear your feedback on the usefulness of the transcripts and captions provided and will use that feedback to make improvements.
Please contact your lecturer with any feedback.
Students can ask for content in alternative formats.
It is a legal requirement to provide documents, leaflets, electronic resources etc in an alternative format.
In Moodle, Anthology Ally provides various alternative formats.
You can tell if alternative formats are available as there will be an A and a down arrow icon (and an Alternative formats tag for screen readers) to the right of the file.
Click on the icon to choose and download an alternative format.
Anthology Ally accessibility tool will be added to Moodle on 8 September 2020.
Anthology Ally creates the following alternative formats:
Anthology Ally provides alternative formats for these file types:
Anthology Ally guidance for students

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/it/printing:
Information for staff on student printing
View your pending print jobs
Mono (black and white)
Colour
Note: Print credits are non-refundable

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/sessiondates:
Academic Policy & Governance (APG) is a unit formed from the former Senate and Academic Collaboration Offices.
(See APG Welcome page for further information.)
For some postgraduate taught programmes the academic year will start in January 2025 .
Note: Students should be aware that some Colleges operate to a slightly different timetable and should confirm the dates shown here with their School or Adviser of Studies before making travel arrangements at the beginning or end of the session.
Visiting Students: Please be aware that your start dates may differ from those shown here.
Please refer to the Study Abroad website for the dates relating to your specific study programme at the University of Glasgow.
Please note that all graduation and examination enquiries should be directed to Registry , and not to Academic Policy & Governance, who do not hold graduation and examination details.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sld:
The University wants to hear what you have to say about your time with us.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/add:
Recognising Excellence in Teaching (RET) is the University's professional recognition framework:
The correct email address for each taught course and RET will be found on those web pages.
Details of how to contact the Media Team will be found on their web pages.
Enquiries not related to taught courses, RET or the Media Team
Good Practice in L&T (Teams link for UofG staff)
College Contacts
AdvanceHE
Association of Learning Technology (ALT)
QAA
SEDA

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/disability:
UCAS APPLICANTS: The UCAS Results Embargo is in place
We are unable to respond to offer holders during these times: if you email during one of the embargo periods, we will respond to your query once the embargo period has ended.
Current and continuing students: we will respond to your emails as normal.
We are aware that there is currently a supply issue affecting the availability of some ADHD medications.
Remember we are here to help and are happy to discuss any support you may need.
Contact us using the details below if you have already registered, or complete a study support request , and we will arrange for you to speak with a member of the team.
If you require information or advice about coursework extensions or Good Cause, your Student Support Officer will also be able to assist.
The Disability Service is currently offering a hybrid service.
Please indicate at point of contact if you would prefer an in-person appointment.
Tel: + 44 (0) 141 330 5497 Email: support@disability.gla.ac.uk
Disability Service Opening Hours Monday to Friday 0900 - 1700
Disabled Students' Network Facebook Page
SRC Vice President Student Support
65 Southpark Avenue Glasgow G12 8LE Map: E12, See Campus Maps
There is a fully accessible entrance around the Gibson Street side to the left when facing the main entrance of the building.
Please confirm your access requirements when making an appointment.
Leave us your feedback

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/maps/transport:
Routes 4, 4A and 15 run through the main campus from the city centre and other routes serve nearby Dumbarton Road, Great Western Road and Byres Road.
Hillhead subway station connects the city centre to the University
The nearest rail station is Partick, about one mile west of the University.
It has an interchange with the subway and with bus services on Dumbarton Road.
A decent cycle corridor connects the University and the city centre, via parkland and dedicated two lane cycle path.
Black taxi cabs can be picked up at most times in the University area and the city centre.
You can also phone for a black taxi cab on 0141 429 7070.
Glasgow's Spaces for People initiative has provided new cycle lanes and pavement widening.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/ses/studyindumfries/visitus:
We offer small-group, scheduled guided tours of our Dumfries Campus.
This will include inside our Rutherford McCowan Building, Maxwell House, Library, and Gym Facilities.
This will also include an outdoor tour throughout our historic campus; please ensure you dress appropriately for the weather.
If you or a member of your party will require any assistance during your visit, please give details and someone will be in touch to discuss your individual needs.
The tour will begin in the main entrance foyer of the Rutherford McCowan Building on the University of Glasgow Dumfries Campus, Bankend Road, Dumfries DG1 4ZL.
Further details on how to get here, including accessibility and parking information, can be found here .
See dates and times and book your place here:
Book a Tour
Directions to our Campus
Our Cafe in the Rutherford McCowan Building
Dumfries Guide 2025
Getting to Dumfries, South-West Scotland
Experience our beautiful Dumfries Campus from the comfort of your own home with our 360 virtual reality tour.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/maturestudentsassociation:
Whether you are an undergraduate, a postgraduate, or on an access course, as long as you were 21+ at the start of your course you are welcome to join the Mature Students Association (MSA).
We are exclusively run by UofG mature students, for UofG mature students.
We have a wide range of facilities to offer: quiet study space, a computer room with PCs on the University network, Wi-Fi throughout the building, cheap printing, a group study room, lockers, a lounge and kitchen facilities for heating and preparing meals, and very cheap hot drinks!
Since 2022 we have also created a community pantry so none of our members ever have to struggle.
The building can also be accessed 24/7, which can be a great asset if you find studying at home difficult, or simply don’t have personal internet, especially around deadline/exam time.
The MSA is a very supportive environment – you will always find other mature students studying similar courses and who probably have similar life circumstances and experiences.
We also have a dedicated Welfare Officer as part of our Team who will be on hand for a chat or to point you in the right direction if you need support, deadlines are piling up, or you just need to vent.
So, whether you’re looking for new friends, study partners, or simply the reassurance of knowing you’re not the only mature student at the University, all can be found here!
Membership is only £15 per year.
We have an enthusiastic and very active committee, who are approachable and helpful.
Committee members are elected annually, so if you have the drive to be involved put your name forward for a position.
Check out our SRC webpages for details on how to join the MSA.
SRC webpages We look forward to welcoming you!
email: maturestudents@src.gla.ac.uk
Facebook: GU Mature Students Association Instagram: Mature Students’ Association

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/supportofficers:
Student Support Officers (SSOs) are based in your academic school and are your go-to guides, offering signposting and support with a wide range of issues or challenges you may be experiencing, such as:
Find your SSO below :
Please contact the Arts Advising Team if you have any questions relating to student support: coah-advising-wellbeing@glasgow.ac.uk .
Find out more about the College of MVLS SSO team and how to contact them .
Find out more about the CoSE SSO team and how to contact them .
Find out more about the CoSS SSO team and how to contact them .
View the privacy notice for the Student Support Office Service.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/wellbeing:
Find information, support, and contact details for UofG Wellbeing Services.
In an emergency, dial 999 and then notify Campus Security using the SafeZone app or on 0141 330 4444 .
If you would like to speak to someone right away, you can contact the 24-Hour Counselling & Advice Line on 0800 028 3766 .
More information on who to contact and when.
Access practical tips to stay safe at university and what to do if you experience or observe bullying, harassment, or sexual violence.
Find out how the university can support your wellbeing during your studies, from peer support to specialist help.
Discover how the university can support your academic journey if you are disabled, neurodivergent, have a mental health difficulty, or live with an ongoing medical condition.
Find information, advice and support on life in and around UofG Campuses including accommodation, the local National Health Service (NHS) and International Student Support.
Find information on fees and finance, as well as how to access financial aid and money advice.
Find out how to contact your local Student Support team, reach your academic adviser, make an extension request or develop your academic skills.
Access information and self-help resources to support a healthy lifestyle throughout your studies.
Discover the range of support available to help keep you safe and well at UofG
Your go-to guides, offering signposting and support for a wide range of queries or concerns.
Your Academic Adviser can assist you with any query related to your course of study.
You can find your allocated adviser's contact information on MyCampus.
A confidential, student-led service where students can talk and share their problems either online or in person.
This team of advisers can help with visa and immigration advice or any enquiries about navigating your student journey as an international student.
Our Chaplains are available to provide pastoral and spiritual care, and to discuss any issues important to our students, whatever their identity or beliefs.
The Counselling and Wellbeing team provides a range of services to help you manage your mental health while studying.
This team helps to ensure a safe environment for all, responding to students in crisis and those at risk of harm.
The SRC is an independent, student-led organisation at UofG that represents students and provides advice and guidance on a range of issues through their dedicated Advice Centre.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sport:
UofG SPORT The home of sport, fitness and wellbeing at the University of Glasgow
Join now
PEOPLE Be part of our community
Membership Options
Classes & Activities
PLAY Join a team, learn a sport and improve your game
Club Sport
GUSA
PARTICIPATE Get fitter, stronger and more confident in a way that suits you
Facilities
Services
WE ARE GLASGOW #TeamUofG
GU Sport Shop
Scholarships & Bursaries
Download the UofG SPORT app now!
The quickest, easiest way to book classes , join online , access our on-demand classes and get all the latest updates about your gym facilities, fitness classes, Club Sport and more.
77 Oakfield Avenue Glasgow G12 8LT
☎  +44 (0) 141 330 4540
West of Scotland Science Park Maryhill Road, Glasgow G20 0SP
☎  +44 (0) 141 330 5363
UofG SPORT
Join
Book online
Sign up for UofG Sport email updates

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sustainability:
Glasgow Green: The University of Glasgow's response to the climate emergency
Make some little changes, that can help us change the world
Help us reduce carbon emissions by planning your travel.
Think about the environmental impact of your food choices.
Help us to reduce the environmental impact of our waste by recycling correctly.
Research spotlights

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/it/webmail:
Treat ALL unsolicited email with suspicion, whether or not the sender appears to be someone you trust.
The University will NEVER ask you for your details via email.
If you're not sure whether it's safe to open an email or attachment, contact the UofG Helpdesk .
Your student email is one of the main ways the University will communicate with you.
It is your responsibility to:
As UofG staff, you are required to:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/it/helpdesk:
> Call us : +44 (0)141 330 4800 Monday - Friday 09:00 - 17:00 BST
Last updated: Thu Jan 16 10:58
From 14 October 2025, Microsoft will no longer support Windows 10.
This means that all Windows PCs and laptops must be upgraded to Windows 11 before October 2025.
You will see a notification from Microsoft on your device when it is time to upgrade to Windows 11.
Just follow the steps to complete your upgrade.
If your device is managed by the University, for example, SSD or MyDevice, the upgrade will be scheduled to take place in the coming months.
Please be aware that this is a major update and could take up to 24 hours to complete, so please ensure that you are prepared to complete the upgrade, with the device connected to a power source throughout.
You may wish to complete the upgrade outside of your normal working hours, or work on another device if possible.
Find out more about upgrading to Windows 11.
Last updated: Mon Dec 2 10:52
We have received reports of scam emails which appear to come from University colleagues, asking staff and students to purchase items including gift cards.
If you have received an email that may be a scam, please report it through the IT: Security Help form in UofG Helpdesk.
Do not open attachments, click links or share personal details.
How to spot a scam email
If you receive any unexpected emails, even if they appear to come from someone you trust, think:
What if I have interacted with a scam email?
If you think you may have interacted with a scam email, for example clicking links, opening attachments, making payments or sharing details, the Information Security team can help.
Get in touch using the IT: Security Help form in UofG Helpdesk.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/it/forstudents:
Access thousands of free courses provided by:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/communications:
Here’s a list of main communications channels the University will use to interact with you.
Your student email is one of the main official channels the University will use to communicate with you.
You can access your Email, OneDrive, Microsoft Teams and download Office to your PC, Mac, tablet and smart phone via Office 365.
Get further information including setup details and advice from:
You will use Moodle to submit essays, reports and other assignments, interact with your tutors and colleagues, and take part in e-learning.
The University will post announcements in MyGlasgow to alert you about urgent matters.
Don’t forget to check that space regularly to be up-to-date!
If you registered your mobile phone number with MyCampus, University staff may send you text messages with alerts and important updates.
You can follow and interact with the University through various social media channels.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/it/eduroam:
You will need: 1.
Your UofG email address (@glasgow, @student or @research) and your password 2.
A temporary internet connection (try flexaccess Wi-Fi if on campus, which lets you view UofG webpages only)
Download eduroam auto setup
1.
Turn on Wi-Fi 2.
Tap Settings then Wi-Fi 3.
Select eduroam 4.
Enter these settings:
5.
Tap Accept when the Certificate information is shown.
Tap Settings > Network & Internet > Wi-Fi 3.
Tap eduroam 4.
Tap Connect and wait for the message 'Connected to eduroam'
Click on your Wi-Fi icon and click on eduroam to connect 2.
3.
Click Connect
If your UofG email address ends with something other than @glasgow.ac.uk, @student.gla.ac.uk or @research.gla.ac.uk (eg @beatson.gla.ac.uk), use this format instead:
Once set up, you can use eduroam Wi-Fi at institutions around the world.
If you intend to use it elsewhere, test it here at UofG first.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/new/contact:
If you're a current student, please contact us on the University Helpdesk .
Those without a login can use the Helpdesk as a guest .
Alternatively, please visit our Contact Directory

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/studentlife/costofliving:
In order to budget for your time in Glasgow, it's best to plan for costs including accommodation, food, books, clothes, entertainment, travel and bills like electricity and gas.
It's also a good idea to include money in your calculations for unexpected expenses.
We estimate that it will cost you £1,100 to £1,700 per month to live and study in Glasgow, but it could be more or less, depending on factors such as your choice of accommodation and your lifestyle (figures published August 2025, based on a small sample survey of current University of Glasgow students).
Ash, Jachine, Danielle and Victor share their experiences of scholarships, funding, budgets, student discounts and share their top tips for saving money.
If you find you are struggling with the rising cost of living, our cost of living support guide provides information on the the advice and support available to our student community
You can access student discounts from many online retailers through student apps:
Students Melody and Isobella share their experiences of what it roughly costs each month for them to live in Glasgow, from rent to utilities to transport to food (published 13 December 2024 ).
Undergraduate student Navya shares some top tips on stretching your money as a student, from food to fashion (published 19 April 2024 ).

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sustainability/travel/cycling/info/nextbike:
‌‌The University continues to offer free memberships for staff and students in 2025.
Save the annual subscription fees for the use of standard OVO bikes from more than 100 hire stations in Glasgow!
As part of the University's Travel Planning process, OVO bikes are being made available for staff and students who want to cycle to and from the University, during the day between University locations and for leisure purposes.
This compliments the University's efforts to support and encourage cycling as a sustainable and active means to travel.
Please note, this offer does NOT include the use of e-hire-bikes and that there is a separate pricing structure for their use.
Staff members may use the hire bikes when travelling on University business, for example between campuses.
When doing so, the University expects you
As these bicycles are hired and not property of the users, no mileage expenses claim for cycling can be made.
A monthly overview of use and cost will be issued to the subscriber by nextbike, which can be used to claim any usage cost above the first free 60 minutes back from the University.
Click here to find out how to sign up for a free OVO bikes membership.
Recommended routes and cycling training
Cycling Scotland's 'Essential Cycling Skills' courses and app
OVO bikes - How it works

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/undergraduate/onlineinfosessions/parentscarersguardians:
Find out more about how you can support your young person pre and post UCAS application.
The session will cover everything from choosing the right course, understanding entry requirements, making decisions on offers and accommodation and finance applications.
An informative presentation about pre and post application support, followed by a Q&A with the Recruitment, Widening Participation and Admissions teams at the University of Glasgow.
Our sessions will take place on the following dates:
Please register by completing the form below.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/disability/parents:
Parents, guardians and other third parties (for example, teachers, social workers and other professionals working with disabled people) often contact our service, particularly at the admissions stage and during the transition period.
Our service is always happy to provide general information about our service and disability support to third party enquirers.
Contact us if you have any questions
Parents and other 3rd parties sometimes make contact with our service to progress matters on behalf of a student who is studying at the University and who is registered with our service.
However, due to the confidential nature of our service and our legal obligations under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)  we are only permitted to communicate directly with the student, unless we have received explicit written consent from the student to communicate with a parent or named carer.
For this reason, we ask you to appreciate that we cannot disclose any information about a student to a third party, including a parent, unless there are genuine Health and Safety concerns for the student.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/securityandoperationalsupport:
The University of Glasgow's Campus Security team is responsible for creating and maintaining an environment where students and staff can study, work and live safely.
Email: security-main-campus@glasgow.ac.uk Communal Tel: 0141 330 4282 Emergency Tel: 0141 330 4444 OR ext.
4444
Email: supgar@admin.gla.ac.uk Communal Tel: 0141 330 5799 Emergency Tel: 0141 330 2222 OR ext.
2222
A must have for every member of staff and student at the UofG, the SafeZone App is an app that is monitored 24 hours a day by the Campus Security team ensuring the safety and security of our staff and students - whether it be on campus, at halls or anywhere in between.
Download UofG SafeZone App
SafeZone Download and Registration Instructions
The SafeZone App is a way of helping ensure staff and students feel safe and secure throughout their time at UofG.
Although it is primarily designed for on campus working, much of its functionality is still useful for the Covid-19 and lockdown world we are finding ourselves in.
The main functions of the SafeZone App:
The Campus Security team has developed a new Lost Property system to help our UofG community get reunited with their items.
Colleagues, students, and members of the public can now log their lost property on a new online system.
Log your lost property
The process is very simple:
Scan the QR code or follow the link to log your lost property (above)
Fill out the lost property form
Be reunited with your things!
Mr Gary Stephen
Tel: 0141 330 2766
Mr Jethro Barclay
Email: security-management-team@glasgow.ac.uk
Tel: 0141 330 5252
Mr Conall Rodgers
Mr Gerry Moore

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/careers/finding-jobs/studentopportunitieshub/studentopportunitieshub-students:
The Student Opportunities Hub is here, helping UofG students find part-time jobs and internships, both on and off-campus, that you can do alongside your studies.
We have designed the Student Opportunities Hub with a 'think student first' mindset.
It makes applying for jobs easier, more accessible and is the one-stop-shop for UofG students looking for work.
Whether it is a part-time job or internship, we will have a wide variety of roles available throughout the academic year and summer.
There will be opportunities in various industries and sectors, to provide students with invaluable experience to help support your time at university while helping set you up for your future career.
All roles will be advertised and accessed via the Student Opportunities Hub on our Glasgow Careers platform.
Log in today and start finding opportunities you're interested in and can apply for.
Log in to browse roles
Internships provided through the Student Opportunities Hub are exclusive to UofG students.
Find out more about the different opportunities and the application process.
A part-time job is a great way to earn some extra money and build experience while you study.
Find out more about the different types of part-time jobs you can apply for.
Follow instructions on how to configure your email alerts within the Glasgow Careers platform, so you can be notified when new roles are added to the Student Opportunities Hub.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/ses/studentlife:
Join 4th year students Aidan, Emily, Edwina and Tehya as they show you their favourite places in Dumfries.
Find out more about student life in Dumfries:
School of Social & Environmental Sustainability University of Glasgow Rutherford McCowan Building Dumfries DG1 4ZL Scotland
tel: +44 (0)1387 702001
email: dumfries-admin@glasgow.ac.uk
Visit us: How to get to Dumfries, South West Scotland

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/undergraduate/regional:
We recognise that the decision about which university to attend can be a challenging journey and that it is really important not only to students but also to their parents, guardians, teachers and advisers.
We also know that it isn't always easy to plan visits to all of your universities of choice so instead...
Glasgow is coming to you!
We would like to welcome you to meet us and begin the next step in your journey to joining #TeamUofG .
Our Information Evenings will include the opportunity to meet with University of Glasgow staff and students during which we will deliver a 45-minute presentation followed by a question and answer session.
Tuesday 8 April 2025, 18:30 - 20:00
Location: W5 at Odyssey 2 Queens Quay, Belfast, BT3 9QQ, UK
18:00 - 18:30 > Arrival and registration
18:30 - 19:30 > Presentation and Q&A session
Followed by an informal chat with staff and students
Please register using the form below
Tuesday 15 April 2025, 18:30 - 20:00
Location: The Place Hotel , 34-36 York Pl, Edinburgh EH1 3HU, UK

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/externalrelations/privacy/subscribers:
The University of Glasgow will be what’s known as the ‘Data Controller’ of your personal data processed in relation to you subscribing via a mailing list to receive communications from the University.
This privacy notice will explain how the University of Glasgow will process your personal data.
Why we need it
The University will process your personal data to provide you with the communications you have subscribed to.
If you consent to receive these communications, we will retain and use only the information which is necessary to communicate with you.
This may include:
The communications we send you will be tailored to any preferences you have expressed.
We will only collect data that we need in order to provide and oversee these services to you.
Legal basis for processing your data
We must have a legal basis for processing all personal data.
In this instance the legal basis is;
Consent - We process your personal information for the purposes above based on your consent.
You will be able to withdraw consent and unsubscribe to the communication you receive at any point by following the instruction provided on each communication we send you.
Alternatively, you can contact us at mrio-recruitmentmarketing@glasgow.ac.uk
What we do with it and who we share it with
We may provide access to such information (including copies of the documents provided by you) to our external auditors when relevant.
We currently use third party services to provide our managed email communications, postal mailings and prospectus distribution.
How long do we keep it for?
We will continue to keep your data until you withdraw your consent or unsubscribe from receiving a specific communication.
We will delete your details if we become aware that your contact details are out of date or incorrect.
What are your rights?*
You can request access to the information we process about you at any time.
If at any point you believe that the information we process relating to you is incorrect you can request to see this information and may in some instances have it restricted, corrected or, erased.
You may also have the right to object to the processing of data and the right to data portability.
Where we have relied upon your consent to process your data, you also have the right to withdraw your consent at any time.
If you wish to exercise any of these rights, please contact dp@gla.ac.uk
*please note that the ability to exercise these rights will depend on the legal basis on which the processing is being carried out.
Complaints
If you wish to raise a complaint on how we have handled your personal data, you can contact the University Data Protection Officer who will investigate the matter.
Our Data Protection Officer can be contacted at dataprotectionofficer@glasgow.ac.uk
If you are not satisfied with our response or believe we are not processing your personal data in accordance with the law, you can complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO ).
Amendments to this privacy policy
This privacy statement will be reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
It was last updated on 13 March 2019.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/clearing/vacancies/scotland:
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Design & Technology Education at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Environmental Science & Sustainability (Dumfries campus) at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Global Sustainable Development (Dumfries campus) at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Nursing at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Primary Education with Teaching Qualification (Dumfries campus) at Glasgow

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/clearing/vacancies/ruk:
Refine by show all subjects Archaeology Celtic & Gaelic Central & East European Studies Classics Comparative Literature Computing Science Education English Language & Linguistics English Literature Environment & Sustainability Film & Television Studies Geographical & Earth Sciences Health & Wellbeing History History of Art Information Studies Media & Cultural Policy Modern Languages & Cultures Music Nursing & Health Care Philosophy Scottish Literature Teaching Theatre Studies Theology & Religious Studies
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Ancient History at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Archaeology at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Celtic Civilisation at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Celtic Studies at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Central & East European Studies at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Classics (Classical Civilisation) at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Comparative Literature at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Creative Arts & Industries at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Digital Media & Information Studies at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about English Language & Linguistics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about English Literature at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Film & Television Studies at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about French at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Gaelic at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Geography at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about German at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Greek at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about History at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about History of Art at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Italian at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Latin at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Philosophy at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Portuguese at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Russian at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Scottish History at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Scottish Literature at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Spanish at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Theatre Studies at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Theology & Religious Studies at Glasgow
Applicants from England, Wales and Northern Ireland 
                            may be eligible for the following scholarships

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/clearing/vacancies/international:
Refine by show all subjects Accounting & Finance Archaeology Biological & Biomedical Sciences Business Cardiovascular & Metabolic Health Celtic & Gaelic Central & East European Studies Chemistry Classics Comparative Literature Computing Science Data Science & Artificial Intelligence Dentistry Economic & Social History Economics Electronics & Electrical Engineering Engineering English Language & Linguistics English Literature Environment & Sustainability Film & Television Studies Geographical & Earth Sciences History History of Art Infection & Immunity Information Studies Law Life Sciences Management Mathematics Media & Cultural Policy Medicine Modern Languages & Cultures Molecular Biosciences Music One Health Philosophy Physics & Astronomy Political & International Studies Psychology & Neuroscience Quantum & Nanotechnology Scottish Literature Sociological & Cultural Studies Sports Science Statistics Theatre Studies Theology & Religious Studies Urban Studies & Social Policy
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Accountancy & Finance at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Accounting & Mathematics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Accounting & Statistics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Anatomy at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Astronomy at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Business & Management at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Business Economics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Chemical Physics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Chemistry at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry with Work Placement at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Chemistry with Work Placement at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Common Law at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Computing Science at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Computing Science (faster route) at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Dentistry at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Economic & Social History at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Economics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Electronic & Software Engineering at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Environmental Geoscience at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Finance at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Finance & Mathematics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Finance & Statistics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Geology at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about International Relations at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Material Chemistry with Work Placement at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Materials Chemistry at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Mathematics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Mathematics (faster route) at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Mathematics/Statistics (faster route) at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Microbiology at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Physics / Theoretical Physics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Physics / Theoretical Physics (faster route) at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Physics with Astrophysics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Physics with Astrophysics (faster route) at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Politics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Psychology at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Quantitative Methods at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Scots Law at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Social & Public Policy at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Sociology at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Software Engineering at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Software Engineering (faster route) at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Sport & Exercise Science at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Statistics at Glasgow
Apply online to secure your place Find out more about Statistics (faster route) at Glasgow

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/clearing/apply:
If you have received your results you can now apply for a clearing place using the form below.
You will be required to upload your official qualification documents to support your application and verify the grades you have listed on your application.
If you do not provide all relevant documents as noted above your application may be declined.
Legible photographs of your documentation are permitted.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/clearing/offers:
To accept your offer from us for UCAS Clearing:
Discover more
Saturday 16 & Monday 18 August 10am-2pm
We're offering bespoke visits to campus specifically for students who have joined UofG through Clearing.
At each event you'll will have the opportunity to:
Register for your visit
You can apply now using the Accommodation application portal using ' Clearing ' when choosing 'What type of applicant are you?'
Listen now

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/clearing/your-guide:
Clearing is simply another way to apply to a UK university.
Thousands of students secure their university place through Clearing every year and the process of applying is actually pretty simple!
You can either apply directly to us through our online application form if you:
Once we have received your application we will let you know as soon as possible by email if we can make you an offer.
If you would like to accept our offer simply add us as your clearing choice by the deadline specified.
Clearing could just be the perfect way to find your ideal degree at a great university.
You can apply through UCAS Clearing if:
A post shared by UofG College of Arts & Humanities (@uofgartshums)
Clearing starts on 5 July.
Students who haven’t met the entry requirements for their chosen course, or haven’t received an offer, are automatically entered into Clearing on UCAS.
Late applicants can also use Clearing to apply.
You can apply for a course as soon as you receive your exam results.
For most this will be Scottish Higher (6 August) and A-Level results (15 August) results day.
Some qualifications such as the IB are earlier.
Don't worry!
It's never been easier to change the university you have been placed with come results day.
You can simply use the self-release tool which is available from July on UCAS Track.
You will then be able to add your Clearing choice to UCAS track.
Remember thousands of students secure their place through Clearing every year.
Even if your results are not as you hoped for there are still lots of opportunities available to you.
If you are calling universities on results day then clearing phone lines are likely to be very busy.
Many universities will have alternative ways of making an application such as online application forms and live chats.
Before you start contacting universities make sure you have all your details.
This includes your exam results, your UCAS ID (if you have one) and any questions you may want to ask.
You can only select one course to add as your Clearing Choice so take your time and be sure before committing.
If you have any questions at all about the process or the university you are applying to then don't be afraid to ask.
It's a big decision and Clearing teams will be more than happy to try to answer any questions you may have.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/accommodation/fees:
Residential contract dates for academic session 2025-2026 are Friday, 12 September 2025 until Friday, 12 June 2026 .
Additional nights outwith this period are available on request.
For further details on costs, please contact accom@glasgow.ac.uk
The residence fees are inclusive of the following:
For family accommodation fees, please visit our Family Accommodation page .
(a) Brooke House, Dumfries Hall and Laurieknowe
(b) Evening Meal and Full Breakfast x 5 days per week.
Brunch and evening meal on Saturday and Sunday.
NB: There is no meal provision over Christmas and New Year public holidays.
No catering is provided for residents of 1, 2 & 3 bed family accommodation.
The University has a number of sources of funding available for all levels of study.
Visit Scholarships for more information.
Rates and range of residence options available are correct at time of publishing, subject to revision without notice.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/accommodation/whychooseus:
We realise that these days students have lots of options when it comes to choosing somewhere to stay during their time at Glasgow.
However, we believe that for most, staying in University accommodation is the best option.
Why?
*Subject to terms and conditions
Find out more about living in residences by visiting UofGLiving

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/ses/students:
Here you will find all you need to know as a current student at the University of Glasgow Dumfries Campus:
Our on-campus fitness suite is free to all students and staff of the University of Glasgow
There are many members of staff at the School of Social & Environmental Sustainability that support the overall Student Experience on Campus.
The innovative work of our research staff and students has an impact locally, regionally and internationally.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/clearing/contact:
If you have any questions regarding our clearing opportunities or your clearing application please use our online enquiry form:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/critical/research/researchcentresandnetworks/robertburnsstudies/courses/robertburnsonline:
Duration: 10 weeks
Start Date: September
Credits: 20 (via optional assessment)
Contact: Dr Ronnie Young arts-burnsonline@glasgow.ac.uk
Revered the world over, the prolific Scottish poet Robert Burns has been a source of interest to generations of readers and has achieved a literary celebrity and 'afterlife' that few authors have rivalled.
This online course offers a multi-disciplinary look at the life, work, and legacy of the 'Ayshire Bard'.
It aims to instruct students in key themes and areas for understanding the poet, including religion, politics, biography, and material culture.
It also introduces students to key poems, songs, letters and prose writings by Burns, including:
Bursary places are available on this course.
See ‘Fees and Funding' below for further details.
Closing date for applications for this session is August 29th
Trailer
Completion of the course carries with it 20 Undergraduate credit points for those who wish to undertake the formal assessments.
There is also the option to undertake the course without certification.
10 Weeks, starting September
Developed and taught by the Centre for Robert Burns Studies , the world's foremost research grouping on Scotland's national poet, this course will be taught over 10 weeks via 8 weeks of online instruction, plus a mid-term break, followed by a week for guided preparation of your final project.
Course Information
The directed online instruction will cover the following topics:
This course is suitable for learners from a wide variety of backgrounds, and is aimed to appeal to anyone with an interest in Burns or in Scottish poetry or culture in general.
It is pitched towards Glasgow's 'level 1' - in other words, those new to University study or entering Glasgow University for the first time.
It is suitable for learners from all disciplinary backgrounds, who may either choose to undertake assessments, and thus qualify for 20 undergraduate credit points, or who may just wish to engage with the learning programme for their own enjoyment.
Graduates are equally welcome.
You will be supported in your learning by staff from the Centre for Robert Burns Studies, who will be on hand to answer enquiries and to advise students on learning and assessment.
Each learning block will be taught through a range of online reading, discussions, exercises, and activities.
Each week students will be introduced to a range of online materials, including video,
articles, artefacts, and documents, as well as Burns's poems, songs, prose and correspondence.
You will have the opportunity to examine archive material, original publications and manuscripts by Burns himself, recordings of Burns's songs and examples of objects used to commemorate the poet.
In addition, students will be able to access digitised materials, articles, and books via the University of Glasgow's library and to take advantage of the additional online resources to which the library subscribes.
The formal assessment for this course is optional and consists of the following:
Support, guidance and feedback will be available for all assessment.
For more details about assessment and certification, contact us at arts-burnsonline@glasgow.ac.uk .
£321 (this covers access to all resources and administrative costs).
Bursaries
A range of full and part-funded bursary places are available via separate application directly to us.
To be considered for a bursary, email your interest to arts-burnsonline@glasgow.ac.uk, by 31 August, stating in 300 words or less why they would like to be considered for the bursary.
The successful applicant should
Successful applications will be announced at least one week before the course starts.
Applicants should still register for the course by following the instructions under ‘How to Apply’ below.
We are now accepting applications for Robert Burns Online.
You can sign up for the course at the following link:
Please click on the link below to download details of the minimum requirements for the online course.
Burns Online Computer Requirements

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/teaching-english-for-academic-purposes-teap-online:
Continuing professional development
This online course is suitable for teachers from a wide variety of backgrounds and is aimed at people interested in developing their understanding of practices and skills required for teaching English for academic purposes (EAP), in anglophone and non-anglophone English medium instruction (EMI) contexts.
Areas covered include exploring academic contexts, understanding and producing academic texts and EAP course design and assessment.
The course is designed around three main themes split into ten individual units:
The content units and workshop weeks for assignment familiarisation each form a weekly cycle of work.
You can download a sample timetable here:
The formal assessment for this course consists of two assignments:
More information on the course is available in the course catalogue:
Course alteration or discontinuation The University of Glasgow endeavours 
                            to run all courses as advertised.
In exceptional circumstances, however, the University may withdraw 
                            or alter a course.
For more information, please see: Student contract .
Completion of the course carries with it 20 Postgraduate Masters level credit points (SCQF Level 11; RQF Level 7).
Should participants wish to continue on to a masters in TESOL at Glasgow, the credits would be eligible for consideration under accredited prior learning.
The following entry requirements normally apply:
Internet browsers
Moodle requires the following browser specs:
Javascript also needs to be enabled within your browser.
Minimum recommended computer specifications
Mobile devices specifications
Advised software
Optional hardware
There are live virtual classroom sessions scheduled for this course.
Zoom meetings will be held with your course tutor or support staff (e.g.
for academic writing support), and a Zoom-compatible headset with microphone is  highly recommended.
If you wish to be informed once the application system has opened or if you would like any further information, please contact: arts-teaponline@glasgow.ac.uk
For successful applicants, we typically put in place a deposit system as the number of places on each course is capped.
When you apply, you will be asked to upload the following documents:
Applications will be dealt with on a first come, first served basis to help us manage the process fairly.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/courses:
Below is a list of available courses for the academic year 2025–26, offered either online or face-to-face.
Further details can be found on the course pages under 'Available Sessions'.
If you are an Undergraduate student wishing to take a short course as part of your graduating curriculum please contact lifelonglearning@glasgow.ac.uk
There are no courses available with this filter

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/medicine/nursing/cpd/burns:
The Graduate Certificate in Burns & Plastic Surgery Care for Adults and Paediatrics has a strong clinical focus that is supported through involvement and collaborative work with practitioners.
These specialties are concerned with the initial treatment and subsequent repair and reconstruction of lost, injured or deformed/diseased parts of the body.
Physical and psycho-social rehabilitation post injury or surgery is a large remit of professionals working in a Burns and Plastic Surgery unit.
This programme aims to enable professionals to meet the challenge presented in caring for patients in these specialities by developing an enhanced level of knowledge and clinical decision making through research based learning and independent study.
The speciality of burn injury and reconstructive plastic surgery care is concerned with initial treatment and subsequent repair and reconstruction of lost, injured and deformed/diseased parts of the body.
The physical, emotional and psycho-social reaction to burn injury or conditions requiring plastic surgery intervention, require practitioners to have an advanced level of knowledge, skills and understanding to meet the challenges required for caring for this patient group.
The Graduate Certificate in Burns and Plastic Surgery for Adults and Paediatrics aims to enable practitioners to meet the challenges presented in caring for patients within this speciality by developing an enhanced level of knowledge and clinical decision making through research based learning and independent study.
Students can choose to study one, two or three courses in any one year.
To gain the Graduate Certificate in Burns & Plastic Surgery Care for Adults and Paediatrics all three courses must be successfully completed within three years.
Students are required to attend study days and are responsible for arranging, and funding, their travel or accommodation costs.
The three compulsory courses required for the Graduate Certificate: Burns & Plastic Surgery Care for Adults and Paediatrics are as follows:
This course aims to increase students’ knowledge and understanding of patient care in relation to burn injury and reconstructive plastic surgery and apply this to clinical practice in the acute and rehabilitation settings.
The course provides the student with the knowledge base of anatomy and physiology to understand the healing and rehabilitation required to recover from injury.
The fundamentals of pain and infection control are introduced alongside psychosocial care for this patient group.
This course is delivered in September and is completed by December.
This course will increase the practitioners’ knowledge of the current techniques, developments and research in the area of plastic reconstructive surgery and will enable the practitioner to provide evidence based care.
It also addresses the long term, multi professional management of these patients.
This course is delivered in January and is completed by April.
This course aims to increase practitioners’ knowledge of current techniques, developments and research in the area of burn injury care to enable the practitioner to provide evidenced based care from acute admission through to rehabilitation.
This course is delivered in May and is completed by August.
The mandatory attendance dates for the three modules are:
The above modules will take place at the New Lister Building, Glasgow Royal Infirmary.
There will also be a mandatory academic skills support session held online on 11th September 2025.
This programme is part-time only:
The courses are suitable for allied health professionals who care for patients in a burns and/or plastic surgery setting on a regular basis.
All places are offered based on satisfactory informal interview and relevant references.
Apply now
For any queries please email: burns-plastic-surgery@glasgow.ac.uk
The programme will have a mandatory academic skills support session online before the main course begins.
All students must attend.
For each course, the three consecutive study days are held at the beginning of the twelve week study period.
These are full days of lectures, group work and activities.
Students are provided with a resource pack to promote self directed learning and are also given access to the online learning site, Moodle.
All registered students on the Graduate Certificate are required to access Moodle for resources and as a means of communication.
Communication with the programme leader, course leaders and other students is actively promoted using formative activities and online student forums.
The course leaders are available to support all students throughout their time of study.
The multidisciplinary nature of the courses allows students to study alongside the health professionals with whom they work on a day to day basis.
Multidisciplinary learning engenders informed discussions that give professionals a more in-depth understanding of each other’s skills and expertise.
All courses include a variety of formative assessments to support students to develop learning, critical thinking and writing skills prior to submitting a summative assessment.
These include: pre-course work books, quizzes, enquiry led learning and debate.
By completing these formative assessments students will be supported to complete the summative assessment.
Feedback for formative assessment will be through peer assessment, self assessment and comments from the course leader.
This feedback will inform students about their progress and demonstrate areas of weakness and strength.
In each of the three courses the summative assessment varies, but is designed to demonstrate critical appraisal and application of the key concepts and theories studied.
The assessment submission dates for each course will be made known in each course handbook and online.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/chemistrycatalysisscience:
Our four unique one-week CPD courses are delivered either here at the University, or externally on-site for employers.
The Catalyst Activation and Deactivation course has been certified by the Royal Society of Chemistry, and the remaining courses are awaiting certification.
We offer four CPD courses:
Find out more about the academic staff involved in delivering these courses:
The course will introduce the processes involved in catalyst activation and deactivation .
Topics to be covered will include activation from lab scale to plant examining reduction sulphidation and reduction by process gas.
Also covered will be catalyst poisoning, sintering and coking .
The underlying chemistry of activation and deactivation will be discussed and the complexity involved in mathematically modelling the deactivation process will be explored .
The a im of this course is to determine the changes in the nature and properties of a catalyst which typically occur during its lifetime under process conditions , specifically referencing activation and deactivation .
By the end of this course delegates will be able to:
This course has been certified by the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Fee: £1,278
Start date: 17 January 2022
The course will introduce the techniques involved in catalyst characterisation .
Topics to be covered will include the measurement and determination of structure using XRD, Raman, XAFS and EM.
Determining the chemical nature of the surface will be exemplified using thermal methods, chemisorption and FTIR.
Bulk and supported catalyst systems will both be covered as will the use of probe molecules .
The aim of this course is to explain the physical and chemical nature of the active catalyst and how best to measure and characterise its properties.
The course will introduce the techniques involved in catalyst testing and process development .
To pics to be covered will include reaction engineering, laboratory testing methodologies with examples from current industrial processes and feedstock purification.
P rocess examples using batch, continuous and flow reactors will be discussed .
The aim of this course is to introduce reaction engineering and process testing and development from lab to plant .
Start date: 10 January 2022
The course will introduce the methodologies involved in catalyst preparation.
Topics to be covered will include the structure of solids and surfaces, support properties, impregnation, coprecipitation and forming.
Aspects of scale-up will be discussed, highlighting common pitfalls and how to avoid them.
The ai m of this course is for delegates to understand the nature and preparation of catalytically active materials.
To apply, please email Professor David Jackson:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/communitydevelopmentactivate:
This is a community-based introduction to Community Development provided by the University of Glasgow in partnership with local agencies/organisations.
Participants will undertake the following:
Each partner is responsible for recruitment and meeting the cost of the programme, however participants can use their Individual Learning Account to reduce the overall cost to the agencies/organisations.
For further information, please contact: Helen Martin (Activate Programme Coordinator)

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/data-analytics:
Course Information & Registration

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/dtmh:
This flexible online course prepares medically qualified clinicians for the professional Diploma in Tropical Medicine & Hygiene (DTM&H), examined, and awarded by the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries.
We equip students with the skills and competencies to work in tropical countries.
And provide an understanding of tropical infections seen in travellers and migrant populations.
Teaching was excellent- really well structured and clear
Excellent team running the course, very clear and prompt communication
The tutorials were the highlight of the course.
They were really interesting and  engaging
Excellent coverage at a good pace, extremely well organised
Very good teaching quality on a good array of subjects
Course is excellent, well-paced and easy to refer back to resources as needed
This is an outstanding option for practicing clinicians – high level teaching combined with flexible schedule
Core content is delivered online from 15 September 2025 through until May 2026.
Course content is released weekly and is available on demand to allow you flexibility and control over your learning.
We run fortnightly online interactive tutorials from October through to April covering a range of clinical themes and parasitology/entomology topics.
These tutorials are organised together with our sister DTM&H preparatory course, run by the University of Sheffield.
Tutorials are delivered in the evening (UK time), and are recorded and available to watch on demand.
Additional live interactive teaching days and half days provide further in-depth knowledge in specialist areas eg.humanitarian medicine.
These are also recorded and available to watch on demand.
Formal teaching stops in May and includes revision sessions.
Our course content is guided by the syllabus published in the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries Guide to the Diploma in Tropical Medicine& Hygiene (DTM&H) .
A minimum of 12 hours of microscopy training is mandatory for exam eligibility.
During our laboratory teaching days, you will receive practical microscopy training to diagnose parasitic infections seen in tropical regions.
You will benefit from our large collection of diagnostic specimens and the expertise of our tutors.
Please note your preference for microscopy location clearly at the top of your letter of motivation.
Enquiries are being made about teaching in Vellore and Pondicherry, India in 2026.
Please keep an eye on this webpage for updates.
Our course offers maximum flexibility to plan your studies around busy clinical schedules.
Students are required to undertake considerable self-directed study, covering large volumes of material at a fast pace.
We recommend that you can commit at least 5-10 hours per week to studying.
Based on previous student feedback, we do not recommend applying for our course if you plan to study for or sit MRCP or similar exams in the same year, or if you are studying towards a PhD or MSc.
We recognise that 100% engagement is not always possible.
However, without engaging with the majority of learning resources, tutorials and special live teaching days, you may find it challenging to pass the examination.
The examination will be on Tuesday 24 June 2025 - the date for 2026 is to be confirmed.
If you need to retake your examination, or you have decided to defer the exam, we offer a course revision package.
This is only open to alumni of the University of Glasgow Diploma in Tropical Medicine & Hygiene course.
The revision package includes:
There are two intakes per year for the revision package: September and January.
For more information and to apply, see:
Deadline for September entry is Friday 12 September and for January entry is Friday 16 January.
Exam fees are not included.
You will need to pay these separately to The Worshipful Society of Apothecaries .
In 2025, the fees were £550.
If you need to retake your examination, we offer a course revision package at a cost of £250.
For session 2025-2026, we are offering 15 competitive scholarships.
These are shared and offered in conjunction with Universitas Indonesia, University of Malaya, and Kamuzu University of Health Sciences in Malawi and are open to medical doctors from these institutions.
Exceptionally, applicants from other institutions will be considered through consultation with the Glasgow course team.
The scholarships are offered to build and strengthen healthcare capacity.
Scholarships cover payment of the following:
Applications should be made through the 'Apply Now' button on this page.
Please indicate clearly at the top of your letter of motivation that you wish to be considered for a scholarship .
In the letter of motivation, applicants for these scholarships should make a strong case for how they will benefit from the DTMH qualification and how this supports healthcare systems in their country of residence.
Should you have any questions, please contact mvls-dtmh@glasgow.ac.uk
You must read this guide to applying online before starting your application.
It will answer questions we frequently receive and ensure we are ready to proceed with your application.
Do I have to apply online?
Yes, we are unable to accept your application by any other means than online.
Do I need to complete and submit the application in a single session?
No.
You have 42 days to submit your application once you begin the process.
You may save and return to your application as many times as you wish to update information, complete sections or upload additional documents such as your medical qualification.
What documents do I need to provide to make an application?
As well as completing your online application in full, it is only possible to submit your application once you have uploaded the required documents:
Can I submit my application if my documents are incomplete?
It is only possible to submit your application once you have uploaded the required documents.
Can I email my documents?
We cannot accept email submissions.
These notes are intended to help you complete the online application form accurately, they are also available within the help section of the online application form.
If you experience any difficulties accessing the online application, then you should visit the Application Troubleshooting/FAQs page.
If you have any questions, please email us at mvls-dtmh@glasgow.ac.uk
Round 1 application dates: 1 May to 30 June 2025
Round 2 application dates: 1 July to 1 August 2025
The course will start week commencing 15 September 2025.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/end-of-life-studies:
There is global growing interest in end-of-life care.
These courses will offer you new and critical perspectives on the contemporary challenges and innovations in end-of-life practice and policy, palliative care, cultural representations of dying and death, and related ethical questions.
Duration: 11 weeks per course
The End of Life Studies Group at the University of Glasgow is internationally renowned for its research excellence.
All courses are taught by Group members.
All courses are designed for and delivered on the FutureLearn platform.
You can choose to take any one of the six courses we offer as part of our MSc End of Life Studies programme, each worth 20 postgraduate-level academic credits:
Many countries, including the UK, have either legalised or are considering legalising, assisted dying.
This course addresses the global debate about the ethics, pragmatics, and social ramifications of lawful assisted dying.
The course will provide essential background about the history of the 'euthanasia debate' and how it has changed over time.
Learners will be sensitised to global variations in the form the debate takes, the type of medicalised 'assistance' advocated for and, in some jurisdictions, offered as well as the real and potential implications for health and social care providers.
Theoretical ideas will also be introduced which will enable learners to understand the increasing prominence of assisted dying in end-of-life debates.
This course sets out the demographic, epidemiological and policy dimensions of delivering end of life care in the global context, taking account of differing settings, such as home, hospital, care home, and hospice.
It explores the rise of the modern field of hospice and palliative care, examining core elements, debates and models of service organisation and practice.
We will examine the current evidence on the global development of palliative care, the relevant indicators, the methodological challenges and the applications of evidence to global policy making processes.
The course also considers the roles of key agencies and non-state actors in advocating for palliative care as a human right and an aspect of Universal Health Coverage.
Selected case studies of end-of-life care delivery in Japan, India, and Scotland are covered to understand the efficacy of specific interventions such as the Liverpool Care Pathway, Hospice Medicare and the World Health Organization (WHO) pain ladder.
This course examines the rapidly growing interest in the creation of public health approaches to end-of-life issues that seek to make care of the dying and bereaved 'everyone's business'.
We will explore how many countries, organisations, and individuals around the world are attempting to complement the role of professional services by mobilising community assets in the face of dying, death, and bereavement.
At the same time we will critically evaluate the evidence for the effectiveness of this type of community intervention and the extent to which it is sustainable.
Case examples, such as the neighbourhood networks in Palliative Care (Kerala, India) and Compassionate Neighbours (London, UK) will be examined in detail.
The course also considers related forms of community intervention - such as the interest in death cafes and death doulas - that are gaining popularity around the world.
By 2050, the world's population of people aged 60 years and older will double to over two billion.
How will we respond to this unprecedented demographic shift?
This course sets out the demographic, epidemiological, and policy dimensions of ageing towards the end of life including decline, dependency, and death.
It examines how super-ageing centenarians are creating a '5th age'.
It situates associated age-related care needs in the global context, critically considering why dying in old age continues to be neglected in research, policy and practice.
We consider differing care settings, such as home, hospital, care home, and hospice, palliative care for older people, and the historical, social, and cultural changes to expectations of healthy ageing, caregiving, and autonomy in late life.
The course also examines core elements, debates and models of ageing into end of life care within selected international case studies.
This course examines how death and dying have been represented in popular culture (film, TV, mainstream fiction), visual arts (fine art, photography) and literary genres (creative non-fiction) over the last half century.
Learners will be introduced to methods of visual and literary analysis and learn to identify specific cultural tropes used to represent the end of life.
There will be in-depth case studies from different artistic genres and different countries, examining the maker's motivation, the specific form chosen, and the reception.
Learners will be able to choose a specific artistic genre to examine in more depth and will create a piece of work in that genre for assessment.
This course introduces learners to three foundational components of end-of-life care research: theoretical frameworks, methodological approaches, and ethical considerations.
The course identifies classic and contemporary concepts, issues, and debates within end-of-life research.
It will sensitize learners to the close relationship between theory, methods, and ethics in end-of-life research, and consider intended as well as unintended consequences of conducting end of life research within local, national, and international contexts.
The course prepares learners to conduct qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods research about dying, death, and bereavement, including developing a fully articulated research proposal.
These courses are well suited to the needs of people already engaged in some way in matters relating to death, dying, bereavement, palliative care, and end of life care.
As well as those who seek to move into these fields.
We have a rich online learning community of practitioners, social activists, those working in artistic and cultural media, and people pursuing their own personal development on a matter of pressing human interest.
Graduates are likely to find employment in:
Find out more about careers paths and opportunities.
Single Course (20 credits)
Normally a 2:1 Honours degree or equivalent in a relevant subject, if you are unsure whether your degree is suitable, you can email the programme team to discuss.
Applications from candidates with relevant and substantial professional and/or industry experience are welcomed even if they do not necessarily hold a relevant qualification.
Please include a 500 word personal statement detailing your relevant background and/or industry experience.
You should state why you have applied for this programme and how your background/interests make you a good fit for the course.
To apply for a course, you must apply online.
We cannot accept applications any other way.
As part of your online application, you also need to submit the following supporting documents:
These notes are intended to help you complete the online application form accurately; they are also available within the help section of the online application form.
If you experience any difficulties accessing the online application, see Application System Help .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/gaelicwithimmersion:
This Certificate of Higher Education allows you to develop advanced Gaelic language skills, as well as acquire in-depth knowledge and understanding of Scottish Gaelic language, culture, and literature through advanced level Gaelic language immersion.
This programme is ideal for adult learners and education professionals who want to develop their fluency in Gaelic.
Elements of this programme will be delivered with key partners to provide you with the opportunity to engage with a range of Gaelic speakers and to experience Gaelic-speaking communities and environments.
Our partners include:
This one-year programme consists of three courses:
Studying Gaelic at university opens doors to a diverse range of work in which Gaelic is essential.
Over the last few years, those who have completed the Gaelic with Immersion programme have gone on to work in primary and secondary education as well as in Gaelic planning, development and administration.
Tuition fees are equivalent to a year of study in an undergraduate programme.
See Tuition Fees for details.
Proficiency in Scottish Gaelic equivalent to Gaelic at B1 level on Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).
For a definition of the CEFR B1 Level, please refer to both:
For example, CEFR B1 level is equivalent to attainment of Higher Gaelic (Learners) (SCQF Level 5).
You are not required to have obtained this formal qualification to gain entry to the programme.
Applicants will be assessed on their Gaelic ability at interview.
The application portal is now open.
Applications will be considered until all places on the programme have been allocated prior to the start date.
Applicants will be invited to participate in an online interview to assess oral abilities.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/generalpracticeprimarycare:
General Practice and Primary Care currently offers three masters-level CPD courses, delivered online.
[[[MED5438]]]
Noncommunicable Disease and Multimorbidity in Primary Care
[[[MED5437]]]
General Practice and Primary Care hosts various professional developments events aimed at primary healthcare professionals.
To apply, please email:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/masterofpublichealthcourses:
To provide a concise review of the threats to the Public Health from communicable disease and describe the tools available to counter these threats.
To give students an understanding of the epidemiological principles involved in the spread of infection.
To indicate the main past, present and future problems in infectious disease.
To describe the surveillance and prevention of these infections.
All disciplines involved in the management of public health aspects of communicable disease control.
A useful addition to the core knowledge and skills for general practitioners.
Infectious disease continues to offer us significant challenge with the threat of new and re-emerging pathogens.
The recent experience with SARS, Avian Influenza and the Childhood Vaccination Programme (in particular MMR) provide valuable lesions for all health professionals.
This is a module which has something for everyone.
This is a practical course through which to develop and apply skills in economic evaluation and decision analysis within the area of health and health care.
Health professionals, researchers, analysts with a background in health economics who want to learn more about undertaking an economic evaluation.
This module covers the concepts and techniques available to look at health care decision making and health policy in the context of constrained resources and to deal with the ethical dilemmas that arise in doing so.
It is a practical course and will involve a mix of lectures and applied practical sessions.
The development of understanding regarding the role of physical environment in human health.
Issues relating to evidence and particularly environmental data, indicators and their interpretation.
Topical issues in environmental health and notably the role of environment in the health improvement agenda.
The module has relevance to those working both in health protection and health improvement and those who are keen to learn more in an area where epidemiology, risk communication and prioritisation present particular challenges.
The socio-ecological model gives physical environment its rightful place in the complex systems which create and destroy health but does not immediately provide the insights to direct action.
Things are changing within environmental health.
This module introduces opportunities for discussion and exploration of new ideas within which all disciplines are valued contributors.
Epidemiology is a collection of methods for describing and understanding the health and health-determinants of a population.
It is therefore one of the fundamental elements of Public Health.
The aim of the course is to give students the knowledge and understanding needed to allow them to interpret information on health and determinants of health.
The strengths and limitations of the most common epidemiological methods are described, together with a consideration of how bias and confounding can result in misleading findings.
The course is designed for anyone interested in developing the skills of a public health professional, irrespective of their previous professional experience.
No specialist medical knowledge is assumed although students with no background in health care or biological sciences may need to refer to a medical dictionary from time to time to ensure that they have sufficient understanding of the major causes of illness and death.
The Introduction to course should give students the skills to critically appraise and therefore better appreciate health information presented in the media, policy documents and research papers.
This course assumes a level of knowledge consistent with having successfully completed the introduction to statistical methods module.
It builds on the introductory module by covering the basic analysis of data from epidemiological studies and introducing methods of adjusting for the effects of confounding variables using analysis of covariance, multiple linear regression and multiple logistic regression.
It also gives an introduction to systematic reviews, meta analysis and analysis of survival data.
This module should be of interest to health professionals who already have some statistical skills and wish to develop these further in the areas listed above.
Some understanding of the methods covered in this module will be extremely useful in reading published papers in all areas of speciality
Reviewing and comparing disease patterns, health services and the interaction of environmental and social problems affecting populations, especially in developing countries in transition.
The module explores intercultural perspectives, encouraging students to "think globally" and to understand the need for health care planning and better funding, with an emphasis on primary health care and the involvement of communities in their health through integrated decision-making processes.
Students interested in inter-sectoral working within a multi-skilled environment - it is directed to all postgraduates from all over the world.
The module is provided for and by health professionals from a wide range of professional backgrounds.
To understand the factors that shape health in an international context - rapid growth of population, urbanization, globalization, socio-economic conditions and migration - and to understand the implications that the determinants of health have for the funding, organization and delivery of health programmes and health system reform.
The principles of economics and their relevance to health and health care, methods of organising and financing health systems, and methods for the economic evaluation of health and health care interventions.
Health professionals faced with difficult choices in the management of the resources at their disposal.
Anyone with an interest in how the insights and methods of economics can help with these choices.
It is easier to recognise the limits on the resources available to health and health care than it is to understand what they mean for health care decision-making and health policy in general.
How to improve population health at a national and local level.
Health promotion professionals; people involved in making public health policy or advising policy makers; researchers of public health policy; people whose work impacts upon population health.
To understand the practical issues faced in moving from a commitment to improve population health towards the delivery of interventions that achieve that goal.
This course assumes little or no prior knowledge of statistics.
It covers the basics of study design, numerical and graphical summary of data, population and sample, interpretation of confidence intervals and p values for comparison of means, medians and percentages.
There are also sessions on linear regression, standardisation of rates and estimation of required sample size.
This course should be of interest to health professionals who wish to revise or improve their understanding of basic statistical methods.
A basic understanding of statistical methods, especially confidence intervals and p values is necessary in order to understand the results of many research papers published in journals.
The course provides an introductory overview of management and organisation theory concentrating on aspects, which have particular relevance to the public health services and organisations.
Sessions cover aspects such as strategic decision making, stakeholder management and new service development with an emphasis on identifying models and theories which can usefully be applied in students' work environment.
The course will be of interest to those with management responsibilities at present, or with an interest in understanding how organisations are managed at a senior level and with aspirations for senior management responsibilities in the future.
The course will provide an opportunity to discover new ways of understanding organisations and their organisation's external context.
It will encourage critical appraisal of students' own experience of managing and being managed, developing reflective skills and peer learning.
Concepts of health and illness, the factors that influence health and the methods and issues involved in improving the population's health.
Nurses, GPs, public health and health service researchers, health service managers and anyone with an interest in health, irrespective of professional background, seeking to develop a stronger population focus in their work.
As a basis for understanding the determinates of the health of the population, how population health is measured and how it can be improved.
This course offers an introduction to the application of psychology and sociology to public health practice.
Selected components of these disciplines are chosen for particular focus and these include: health behaviour change, the body, suicide prevention, gender and health behaviour, self esteem, and well being.
The course addresses the societal and individual barriers related to health’s social determinants
This course will be of interest to those interested in public health who may be working in this area and wish to secure a deeper understanding of important psychological and sociological concepts that underpin much of health improvement practice.
Successful course completion will enable a critical appreciation of psychological and sociological concepts and their application to the field of public health.
It will promote a more detailed understanding of related research and its application to public health.
The course offers students a broad introduction to the main approaches in qualitative methods, describes the theoretical origins of qualitative research and describes and discusses the main approaches to analysis.
The course provides some limited opportunity to apply methods and illustrates examples using scripts from interviews and focus groups.
The students are also given a detailed reading list and introduced to the key concepts relating to qualitative methods.
The module is suited to anyone who has an interest in qualitative methods and would welcome finding out more.
It is set at an introductory level.
The application of qualitative methods is now widely accepted and it is seen as having relevance to a wide range of pubic health issues.
The module acts as an introduction to these methods and as such, provides more information for individuals who feel they would like to use such methods in the future, and/or whose research would benefit from undertaking methods.
How to design and undertake public health and health services research.
Public health and health care professionals seeking to undertake research projects to better inform their professional practice: public health and health care professionals wishing to develop a more analytical approach to their work.
To understand better how to do and interpret public health and public health and health services research.
For further information about these modules please contact:
Margaret Ashton - Public Health Postgraduate Administrator:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/health-professionals:
Autumn 2025 : Friday 3 October.
£425.00 per delegate (VAT not applicable).
Venue : Online, Microsoft Teams
This course is designed to inform and refresh appointed doctors in legislation and best practice.
In addition, this course will provide a valuable supplement to the knowledge and skills for other Occupational Health and Safety practitioners, including those in training, who have an interest in the wider health standards for those who work with or are exposed to Asbestos.
The course is run by the Healthy Working Lives Group and is delivered by experts from the HSE and clinical practice in this area.
This course has received FOM CPD approval worth 6 CPD points for full attendance.
In writing 28 days prior to course (refund subject to 15% admin charge) thereafter no refunds.
Substitutions allowed.
Asbestos course registration
Autumn 2025: Course runs from Monday 1 September until mid-January 2026.
£3,000 per delegate (VAT not applicable).
Venue: Fully online/remote with live tutorial sessions held on Microsoft Teams.
Distance learning Faculty of Occupational Medicine approved course designed by experienced OH clinicians & academics.
Diploma in Occupational Medicine registration
Date : tbc.
£750 per delegate (VAT not applicable).
Venue : Zoom
The Foundation Course in Effective Leadership and Management for Delivering Clinical Services is a two day course building a foundation on which to develop leadership skills in the context of healthcare delivery.
Leading and managing effective health and work services in today’s Public and Private sectors is challenging.
We are expected to not only to be able to manage, demonstrate value and provide quality services, but also be leaders within the business in which we operate.
This unique course explores the skills and expertise which are required to deliver within these areas, including at board and operational team levels.
The speakers all have a proven track record of high level management effectiveness.
The course is run over two days with 3 distinct themed modules:
This course has received FOM CPD approval
Effective Leadership course registration
Autumn 2025 : Wednesday 17 & Thursday 18 September.
£850.00 per delegate (VAT not applicable).
Venue : University of Glasgow, Clarice Pears Building, 90 Byres Road, Glasgow
This 2-day course is run by the Healthy Working Lives Group and is designed to meet the syllabus requirements for a Faculty of Occupational Medicine approved training for occupational health professionals.
The course provides training in the requirements for health surveillance for a workforce exposed to hand-transmitted vibration, and in the diagnosis and management of an individual with HAVS.
This course is approved by the Faculty of Occupational Medicine of the Royal College of Physicians.
It has received Faculty CPD approval worth 12.5 CPD points for full attendance.
A general understanding of occupational health is required.
The course would be best suited to those practicing as occupational health nurses or physicians.
For those with no specific knowledge of HAVS, you should also ideally sit in with colleagues within your organisation who do HAVS surveillance prior to the course.
The course will be divided to small groups using a combination of formal presentations and practical sessions.
The course is provided over two days.
A formal assessment will occur.
Clinicians (doctors and nurses) successfully completing the formal assessment at the end of the course will be entitled to apply for a Certificate of Competence accredited by the Faculty of Occupational Medicine.
The Faculty intends to list those who have received a Faculty Certificate on their website.
(NB Non clinicians will not be eligible for a Faculty Certificate.)
Attendance at all sessions is required.
Substitutions are allowed.
HAVS course registration
Autumn 2025: Distance Learning course with a bespoke learning portal over 4 weeks.
Final live session on Microsoft Teams will be delivered on Friday 21 November.
This course is designed for OH professionals who have previously attended a Faulty of Occupational Medicine approved course on HAVS and will provide refresher training in the requirements for health surveillance of a workforce exposed to hand transmitted vibration and in the diagnosis and management of individuals with HAVS.
This course has received FOM CPD approval worth 8 CPD points for full attendance.
HAVS refresher course registration
Autumn 2025: Friday 7 November.
Venue : Online, Microsoft Teams
Approved Course for Appointed Doctors.
The course follows the HSE prescribed syllabus for the training for appointed doctors.
Copies of IRR general guidance for Appointed Doctors will be available to all delegates, together with course notes.
Ionising Radiation Regulations 18 course registration
Final live session on Microsoft Teams will be delivered on Friday 31 October.
In addition, this course is also suitable for other Occupational Health and Safety practitioners, including those in training, who have an interest in the wider health standards for those who work with or are exposed to Lead.
The course is delivered by experts from the HSE and clinical practice in this area.
This course has received FOM CPD approval worth 7.5 CPD points for full attendance.
Cancellation
Lead course registration
Autumn 2025: Friday 24 October.
Course delivered live online.
A high quality one-day course developed and run by some of the leading experts in this field.
It will be a practically focussed, evidence based, interactive day to provide OH practitioners with the skills and competencies to translate the findings of their OH assessment into an excellent report to management.
This programme is designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of all relevant aspects of the report writing process to produce an effective and meaningful OH report.
It is suited to all OH practitioners undertaking referrals from managers including physicians, nurses, advisors, case managers and allied health professionals working in the OH field.
Delegates are invited to forward in advance or bring in any challenging scenarios for discussion in the afternoon workshop.
Occupational Health Report Writing course registration
Date: TBC Venue: TBC
The certificate in case management is designed to develop and enhance the ability of a wide range of staff in health, social services and workplaces to perform case management functions in a variety of practice settings, but primarily focused on "Return to Work" and effective functioning.
This programme is a core module which will provide delegates with the opportunity to acquire /enhance skills fundamental to client centered case management; understand the models and theories of case management; locate case management within employment, health and social service policy frameworks enabling the practitioner to provide high quality efficient services.
This course has received FOM CPD approval worth 18.5 CPD points for full attendance.
TBC
For all courses payment can be made by cheque payable to "University of Glasgow" or by BACS.
Further details on how to pay by BACS will be provided by invoice, generated on completion of registration form.
Upon receipt of payment further details re travel and accommodation will be sent.
Vocational Rehabilitation Case Management course registration

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/healthwellbeing/research/hehta/study/short-courses:
Enhance your skills and stay ahead in your field with our fully online short courses in Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment.
Our continual development (CPD) courses will allow you to learn from world-leading experts, update your knowledge with state-of-the-art methods, and gain confidence.
- Global Networking: collaborate and connect with professionals from all over the world.
- Flexible Learning: our courses are online distance learning (ODL), allowing you to study at your own pace.
- Discounts Available: for low and middle income countries (LMICs) and public/academic sector delegates.
Our courses, most of which are modules of our MSc HTA , are offered as non-accredited ODL.
19-21st November
26th-28th November
3rd-5th December
We have also launched a brand new ExpertTrack course via FutureLearn called Using Health Technology Assessment in Support of Universal Health Coverage .
Registration for this course is open-ended and students can sign up for a seven-day free trial.
This course is an affordable learning option and takes a nominal nine weeks to complete.
The next run of our flagship course Maximising the Value of Clinical Trial Data: Advanced Analysis for Economic Evaluation and Modelling will take place in November and December 2024.
This course is taught in eight live online lecture and exercise sessions led by expert tutors over a three-week period.
Email shw-hehta@glasgow.ac.uk to join our mailing list and receive regular course information.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/law-trainee-cpd:
‌Our Trainee CPD (TCPD) programme is accredited by the Law Society of Scotland.
It allows legal trainees to work towards achievement and demonstration of the PEAT 2 prescribed Learning Outcomes.
All of our courses can be taken and paid for individually.
For the individual pricing, please select the relevant course below.
If you are planning to take multiple courses, we recommend one of our trainee packages.
We offer two trainee packages designed to help you and your employer get the best value from your investment:
This package allows you to source a total of 40 accredited TCPD hours from our list of courses, enabling you to choose the most relevant courses to your stage and area of practice as you progress through your traineeship.
For example, you may wish in the first year to concentrate on core skills, such as team working or technical skills such as advocacy.
The fee for this option is £1,200 (VAT is not applicable).
This package allows you to source a total of 60 accredited TCPD hours from our list of courses, enabling you to choose the most relevant courses to your stage and area of practice as you progress through your traineeship.
The fee for this option is £1,800 (VAT is not applicable).
Over the course of a traineeship, you are required to undertake a minimum of 60 hours of TCPD:
Further information on traineeships can be found on the Law Society of Scotland's 'Qualifying and education' webpages .
We require 48 hours notice of cancellation for all TCPD courses.
In the event of cancellation less than 48 hours in advance of a course, delegates will have the 'accredited hours' applicable to that course deducted from their package.
Similarly if a class has been booked and the delegate does not turn up.
Find out what previous attendees said about our courses.
Courses can be chosen from any of the courses listed below.
The timetable is subject to change.
If less than four participants register for one course, we reserve the right to cancel that course.
Our core skills courses are an excellent way to build a strong foundation for practising law.
Dates:
Please contact law-cpe@glasgow.ac.uk if you are interested in this course.
Time: 18.00–20.00
Training hours: 4 hours (plus 1 hour individual preparation time - 5 hours in total)
Venue: Online
Course Synopsis:
Target audience: Trainees
Cost: £175 (no VAT applicable)
If you have already registered with a trainee package, please email law-cpe@glasgow.ac.uk to reserve your place on this course.
Delivered by: Stephen Vallance, Solicitor and Business Consultant
Stephen Vallance, having run his own practice for 25 years, now has a diverse work portfolio that includes, amongst other things, Legal Sector Development Solicitor at Connect2law (Harper Macleod).
He is also a co-founder of an online legal services business, Legalbot.
He has produced and presented seminars on various management topics for the Law Society of Scotland and is a Founder and Chairman (for 4 years) of the Live@Troon Music Festival.
He tutors in Private Client, PCC and BEFPA at the University of Glasgow as well as teaching on the TCPD programme.
Please note that in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, you can currently undertake the mandatory ethics course between months nine and 24 of a traineeship.
The September sessions for this course are now at full capacity .
If you are interested in this course, please email law -cpe@glasgow.ac.uk to be added to a waitlist.
Training Hours: 4 hours over 2 sessions (4 hours in total)
Target Audience: Trainees
Cost: £150 (no VAT applicable)
Delivered by: John Mackie, Solicitor
John Mackie is a Partner at PRG Partnership Solicitors.
John practises in many areas of the law but has a particular interest in entertainment, media and intellectual property law as well as claims based on contract and professional negligence.
He acts for a number of high profile clients involved in the entertainment industry as well as from the worlds of construction and commerce.
He also maintains a successful private client practice at the firm’s head office in Glasgow and at our branch office in Erskine.
He is also a tutor for the University of Glasgow's Diploma in Professional Legal Practice.
Date: Wednesday 19 November
Time: 11:00–16:00 (including an hour break)
Training Hours: 4 hours over one session
Venue: In person on University of Glasgow campus
Ethics is the only mandatory element of TCPD.
The University has until now run a general Ethics course covering the compulsory areas of PEAT 2.
This new course is for trainees who wish to focus on court work.
The course will consider general compulsory PEAT 2 elements including:
The course will do so from the position of a court practitioner.
It will examine the various duties a court practitioner has to the court, clients, and to fellow practitioners.
The course will cover how to approach these duties when they conflict.
We will review examples of problem scenarios and how these should be approached.
The course will end in an examination of the case of Paddy Meehan.
We will review the ethical issues Joe Beltrami faced when acting in this case.
Target Audience: Criminal Practitioners
Delivered by: Peter Galletly
Peter ran his own practice for over 25 years , thereafter, worked as a Procurator Fiscal depute, and still works part-time as a Legal Adviser in the JP Court.
He first became involved in legal education when Glasgow University commenced its own Diploma Programme in 2010.
He remains involved in delivering the Diploma at Glasgow University and now tutors in Commercial Awareness, Criminal Law as well as being Senior Tutor in the elective Advanced Criminal Course since 2017.
In addition, he prepares and delivers TCPD courses for Glasgow University, including the Advocacy Course, the Advanced Advocacy Course and the new Criminal Law Ethics Course.
He also delivers the TCPD Ethics course to all COPFS trainees.
These sessions are at full capacity.
To be added to a waiting list please email law-cpe@glasgow.ac.uk
Time: 18.00-20.00
Training Hours: 8 hours over 4 sessions (plus 2 hours preparation time - 10 hours in total)
Target Audience: Trainees and newly qualified lawyers
Cost: £350 (no VAT applicable)
Delivered by: Kieran Burke
Kieran is originally from Northern Ireland and moved to Scotland to study law at the University of Glasgow.
He was an in-house solicitor at the Scottish Legal Aid for a number of years, before taking up a policy role in the Access to Justice Unit with the Scottish Government, which where he is currently employed.
He also tutors Commercial Awareness and Public Law on the Diploma in Professional Legal Practice course at the University of Glasgow.
If you are interested in this course, please email law-cpe@glasgow.ac.uk .
Training Hours: 8 hours over 4 sessions (plus 2 hour individual preparation time - 10 accredited hours in total )
He is also co-founder of an online legal services business, Legalbot.
Date: Tuesday 9 December
Training Hours: 2 hour session (2 hours in total)
Target Audience: Trainees and qualified lawyers
Cost: £70 (No VAT applicable)
Our technical courses are taught wholly or partially in our mock courtroom to give trainees a taste of what it's like to be in court.
To be added to a waiting list please email law-cpe@glasgow.ac.uk
Time: 11.00–16.00
Training Hours: 10 hours over 2 sessions (plus 2 hours individual preparation time) - 12 accredited hours total
Venue: In person on the University of Glasgow main campus.
The course will mostly take place in the Alexander Stone Court Room (Moot Court Room) at Glasgow to replicate as far as possible real court conditions.
These highly practical sessions will be fully interactive, allowing participants to practice and hone their presentational skills.
The course will cover:
Target Audience: Trainees and newly qualified lawyers.
The course will be run in small groups to allow each trainee full participation in developing Advocacy Skills.
This course is only available to trainees who have previously completed Advocacy Skills course.
Dates (updated):
Time: 11:00–16:00
Training Hours: 10 hours over 2 sessions (plus 2 hours individual preparation time) - 12 accredited hours total .
Venue: Stair Building, Professor’s Square, Glasgow University
Course synopsis:
This course has been created to meet demand from trainees who have attended the Advocacy Course.
Trainees asked for a further course to allow them to use their compulsory TCPD hours to focus on their desired areas of practice.
This course is for those who intend to operate in a court-based setting or wish to develop general advocacy skills.
The course is now a separate self-standing course.
It is designed to follow on from the Advocacy course.
Trainees will develop skills in:
Trainees will deliver a submission in a court setting using skills developed at both Advocacy courses.
The course is run over 2 days.
Day 1 will focus on civil submissions and will incorporate a short civil proof.
Day 2 will deal with a summary criminal trial where there are evidential problems.
It will cover objections to evidence and the trial within a trial process.
The issues covered in this course are daily issues faced by court practitioners.
The aim of the course is to enhance the trainee’s knowledge of evidence and court procedure and to improve general advocacy skills.
Target Audience: Trainees and newly qualified Lawyers
Training Hours: 8 hours over 4 sessions (plus 2 hours preparation time - 10 hours in total)
Venue: Online and in person for the final session
Delivered by: Gerry McWilliams
Gerry has been in practice at Cowan & Co, Solicitors in Glasgow for over 35 years.
He carries out Family Law Mediation work and deals with other Family, Civil and Business Law disputes.
He has been an accredited Family Law Mediator for over 22 years and is also qualified to conduct Collaborative Family Law cases.
Gerry also sits as a legal member on Social Security and Housing Tribunals.
Gerry was a tutor in the Joint Glasgow and Strathclyde Universities’ Diploma Course and has been tutoring in the Civil Litigation, Advanced Civil Litigation and Family Law Courses in the University of Glasgow Diploma Course since this Course recommenced in 2010.
He has tutored in the University of Glasgow TCPD Civil Litigation and Family Law Courses for 10 years.
Gerry has also delivered the Glasgow Bar Association TCPD Professional Ethics Module for 20 years.
Training Hours: 6 hours over 3 sessions (6 hours in total)
Venue: Evening class taking place in person on the University of Glasgow main campus.
Part 1
Part 2
Part 3
Target Audience: Trainees and newly qualified solicitors
Cost: £210 (no VAT applicable)
Delivered by: Mark Chambers
Mark has been in practice since 1994, working in Paisley and covering courts throughout Scotland.
Mark specialises in Criminal court work; from the Justice of the Peace Court to the High Court.
Mark deals with a large variety of cases but his preference is for conducting jury trials as he enjoys the additional challenge that comes with such cases.
Our specialist courses focus on particular aspects of the law and show both the theoretical and practical side of each area.
Training Hours: 6 hours over 3 sessions (plus 4 hours individual preparation time - 10 hours in total )
Target Audience: Trainees, newly qualified lawyers and professionals
Delivered by: Daradjeet Jagpal, Director and Legal Consultant, Information Law Solutions Limited
Daradjeet Jagpal is Director and Legal Consultant at Information Law Solutions Limited, an independent consultancy providing advisory, training and audit services in Data Protection, Freedom of Information and Direct Marketing laws to private, third and public sector clients across the UK.
He has advised clients of all sizes from start-up businesses, well-known commercial brands to UK Government Departments and Scottish Government Directorates.
He was single-handedly responsible for advising the Organising Committee of the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games on Information Law issues associated with the organisation, management, broadcasting and delivery of the Games.
He is a regular contributor to legal and industry publications and has been asked to comment on developments in Information Law for: LexisNexis; the International Bar Association; Workplace Law Magazine; The Herald and The Scotsman newspapers; Scottish Legal News; Scottish Housing News; Inside Housing; and Third Force News, amongst others.
He has two Masters' level degrees in Information Law (with distinction) and has completed the Information Systems Examinations Board's certificate course in Data Protection Law.
He speaks widely at client and third party events.
In 2010, he was invited by the first Scottish Information Commissioner to address the Commissioner on the scope of the Environmental Information (Scotland) Regulations 2004 and their possible application to the private sector in Scotland.
His submissions to the Commissioner resulted in the Regulations being extended in application to registered social landlords in Scotland in June 2014.
He has separately been commissioned by the University to write and produce online training videos and associated test questions for University staff on data security matters.
If you are interested in this course, please email law-cpe@glasgow.ac.uk
Part 1:  Family mediation.
Parts 2 and 3:  Investigation and collation of information, the preparation of a schedule of matrimonial assets and liabilities, the consideration and negotiation of a scheme of division and the drafting of a Minute of Agreement.
Delivered by: Julie Clarke
Julie is a Scottish Solicitor with rights of audience in the higher courts.
She did her traineeship with a private firm.
After completing her traineeship, she was made an associate and then partner, appearing in courts all over Scotland and in Strasbourg.
She specialised in criminal law and human rights with a particular interest in Art 3, specifically prison conditions and the rights of those in custody.
She joined the Crown Office in 2009 and has prosecuted summary and solemn cases, specialising in crimes of domestic and sexual violence.
In 2021, in the immediate aftermath of Brexit, she moved into international law, leading the Extradition Team dealing with requests for the surrender of fugitives from justice.
Julie also tutors Criminal Litigation and Human Rights courses on the Diploma in Professional Legal Practice course at the University.
View our calendar to find out when the next courses are taking place.
VAT is not applicable.
To apply for any individual course(s) or to register for one of our CPD packages, please email law-cpe@glasgow.ac.uk and make sure to include the following information:
If you are registering for a CPD contract, our TCPD administrator will send out the relevant paperwork to you on receipt of your email.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/businessadministration:
Join our prestigious AMBA-accredited MBA.
We are ranked among the Financial Times Global Top 100 and recognised as a Tier One programme by CEO Magazine’s Global MBA Ranking 2025.
Develop the leadership skills you need to thrive in today’s global business environment.
Study in the dynamic city of Glasgow.
Engage in hands-on projects with real-world impact, and immerse yourself in the rich culture of Scotland.
Take advantage of dedicated career support, global networking opportunities, and a range of scholarship options to support your journey.
*Industry Projects are not guaranteed.
All applications are subject to availability and review processes.
We will support candidates with their applications before the deadline but if unsuccessful, they can opt for a research proposal for their dissertation.
Students can also secure their own projects with approval from academic and/or professional services.
Learn more about MBA industry projects.
The Glasgow MBA starts with core leadership training.
Then, specialise in finance, marketing, or strategy, or explore areas like entrepreneurship and sustainability.
Participate in a team consulting project to tackle real business challenges, and finish with a dissertation.
Choose from research, industry, or start-up pathways to work on your project from June to August.
Programme alteration or discontinuation The University of Glasgow endeavours 
                            to run all programmes as advertised.
In exceptional circumstances, however, the University may withdraw 
                            or alter a programme.
As a Glasgow MBA graduate, you’ll join a network of global professionals making a difference.
Our MBA Development Manager will help you plan and compete in the job market.
Many graduates land senior roles or start their own businesses.
Recent alumni have joined top firms like Amazon, Barclays, Deloitte, Diageo, and in many smaller businesses in Glasgow and throughout Scotand.
We prioritise your career success through our concentrated Professional Development weeks and our regular employability events, featuring alumni mentorship, group exercises, guest speakers, and workshops.
Hear from our alumna, Sharon Morrow, about how the Award advanced her career.
Video: Sharon Morrow
Hear how some of our alumni turned their Industry Projects into career opportunities.
“It was the cherry on top of the cake when I got to know that the client wanted to extend my contract and work with me.” — Jaskaran Khatri, Glasgow MBA 2023 -2024
Hear more about Jaskaran’s experience
This project offered me an insight into how to develop strategy in a more practical manner and what working in the UK would look like.” — Jasneet Arora, Glasgow MBA 2023 -2024
Hear more about Jasneet’s experience
Tuition fees for 2025-26
International and EU applicants are required to pay a deposit of £2000 when an offer is made.
The following guidelines will apply in determining whether a deposit will be 
                                        refunded.
Where the deposit is refunded, a 25% administration fee will be 
                                        deducted unless otherwise stated.
a: Deposits WILL be refunded to applicants under the 
                                        following circumstances:
b: Deposits WILL NOT be refunded to applicants under the 
                                        following circumstances:
Refund requests must be received no later than 30 days after the official 
                                        course start date as outlined in your offer email.
As per section b)7 above 
                                        the request will be denied.
Please go to our enquiry form and 
                                        select 'Fees and Deposit' as the enquiry reason and then 'Can I have a deposit 
                                        refund?'.
Please upload all supporting documentation to your applicant self-service 
                                        portal before submitting the above request.
A fee of £50 per application must be paid by all applicants to this programme.
The
                                application fee will be requested when you apply online and it can be paid using your
                                credit or debit bank card.
The application fee is non-refundable so it is important that you check any specific
                                            entry requirements for the programme.
If you are applying with qualifications from
                                            outside the UK then you should check the postgraduate taught entry requirements for
                                            your country: see International
                                                students: In your country
Applicants who are sponsored may have the application fee waived at the point of
                                            applying online.
However if the sponsorship status changes before the student
                                            registers with the University and the student is self-funding the University
                                            reserves the right to invoice the student for the initial application fee.
The Glasgow MBA has available significant scholarship funding to our most talented applicants.
We are proud to offer a range of awards to outstanding applicants that support diversity, equality and inclusion.
Candidates eligibility will be assessed via both the scholarship application and the MBA interview.
There is no deadline to apply for the Glasgow MBA scholarship, but as funds are limited, we advise you to apply as early as possible.
Please note that only current applicants are eligible to apply for this scholarship
Please email business-mba-recruitment@glasgow.ac.uk to discuss your application.
Applications are also opened for the Glasgow MBA Scholarship for Women in collaboration with the 30% Club - please click on the link to find out more.
The Glasgow MBA Scholarship for Women in association with the 30% club aims to promote women in leadership by encouraging women to enrol in the MBA programme.
There have been significant changes to educational and professional opportunities for women; the Glasgow MBA has consistently welcomed a high proportion of women in its cohort, and we would like to strengthen further women active participation in the programme.
The University of Glasgow aims to meet the diverse needs of women through its Glasgow MBA programme.
Now for the third consecutive year, the Glasgow MBA is pleased to award one full tuition fee waiver scholarship to an outstanding woman who shows a clear potential to impact an industry or country and needs practical support.
This reflects the shared mission of the University of Glasgow Adam Smith Business School and its partner organisations to help develop strong female talent and to improve gender diversity on leadership teams.
It supports the 30% Club’s goal of achieving a minimum of 30% women on FTSE-100 boards.
Gender diversity often exists at early-career stages but falls away at senior levels.
To improve the gender balance on leadership teams, this scholarship supports talented senior women to undertake MBAs and rise to the top.
The Snowdon Trust Master’s Scholarship is accelerating exceptional Disabled Students through masters’ programmes into leadership positions to create change.
Do you have ambitions to change the world?
Are you pioneering in your field?
Are you creating change for Disabled People?
Let us open some doors.
We are searching for individuals who choose to use their lived experience of disabling barriers to make a difference.
To create change.
Applications open 15 January 2025.
Please see Snowdon Trust, Investing in Disabled Students website for more details.
The Mexican National Bank (Banco de Mexico) provides special loans for students who wish to undertake a programme of postgraduate study.
The University of Glasgow in partnership with Bank of Mexico FIDERH is offering a fee discount to holders of a Bank of Mexico FIDERH loan.
See the FIDERH website for further information.
Erasmus+ Master Degree Loans are EU-guaranteed loans with favourable pay-back terms.
They’re designed to help prospective students finance their Master’s courses in an Erasmus+ Programme country while leaving as little of a lasting economic footprint as possible.
The scheme is designed to provide postgraduate students with the means to pay their tuition and living expenses – thereby allowing individuals to focus on their degree instead of managing their bank balance.
The programme aims to be as inclusive as possible, working under the following guidelines:
Please visit the Erasmus+ Master Degree Loans website for more information.
The University of Glasgow offer discounts to all successful Fundacion para el Futuro de Colombia (Colfuturo) scholars who enrol at the University of Glasgow to complete a postgraduate programme.
Commonwealth Scholarships enable talented and motivated individuals to gain the knowledge and skills required for sustainable development, and are offered to citizens from low and middle income Commonwealth countries.
The majority of Scholarships are funded by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO ), with the aim of contributing to the UK’s international development aims and wider overseas interests, supporting excellence in UK higher education, and sustaining the principles of the Commonwealth.
Please note that the Chevening Scholarships are now open for application for the 2026/27 academic year.
It is no longer possible to apply to Chevening for funding for 2025/26.
Chevening Scholarships are the UK government's global scholarship programme, funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) and partner organisations.
The scholarships are awarded to outstanding scholars with leadership potential.
Awards are typically for a one year Master’s degree at universities across the UK.
There are over 50,000 Chevening Alumni around the world who together comprise an influential and highly regarded global network.
For further information, please refer to the Chevening website .
The University of Glasgow offers a 25% discount to all successful ANID scholars who enrol at the University of Glasgow to complete a postgraduate programme.
(Please note that this scholarship was previously known as CONICyT)
CONACYT offers a non-refundable scholarship, a monthly stipend and medical insurance of an approximate total of $20,000 USD (in the case of the UK, no medical insurance grant is given since students are already covered by the National Health System) The University of Glasgow offer a 30% discount to all successful CONACyT scholars who enrol at the University of Glasgow to complete a postgraduate programme.
The University of Glasgow African Excellence Award aims to support high achieving students from across Africa in their journey to become Future World Changers.
We are looking for students who wish to undertake Masters level study, to further develop their knowledge and skills, in order to positively contribute to their community in the future.
The University is offering up to 15 scholarships for International students from Africa, starting a 1 year postgraduate taught Masters programme, in any discipline for academic session 2025/26.
The scholarship is a full tuition fee waiver.
The University of Glasgow Caribbean Excellence Award aims to support high achieving students from across the Caribbean in their journey to become Future World Changers.
The University is offering up to 5 scholarships for International students from the Caribbean, starting a 1 year postgraduate taught Masters programme, in any discipline for academic session 2025/26.
The University of Glasgow is proud to announce the World Changers Glasgow Scholarship for September 2025/ January 2026 entry to acknowledge incredible applicants from India, Singapore, Nigeria, Thailand, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Vietnam, Israel, Jordan, Palestinian Territories, Syria, Yemen, Mexico, Brazil, Lebanon and Colombia.
The scholarship is awarded as a £5,000 tuition fee discount and will automatically awarded to all eligible applicants.
Eligible full-time and part-time students, undertaking an eligible postgraduate course, can apply for a tuition fee loan up to a maximum of £7,000 towards their course.
Eligible full-time postgraduate students can apply for a living-cost loan of up to £4,500.
This support extends to online Masters or Postgraduate Diplomas, and not to the online Postgraduate Certificate courses.
If you’re an English student looking to study a taught Masters programme in Glasgow then you can apply for a student loan.
Students from England are able to apply for a non-means tested Postgraduate Master’s Loan of up to £11,570 to help with course fees and living costs.
You have to repay your Postgraduate Master’s Loan at the same time as any other student loans you have.
You’ll be charged interest from the day you get the first payment.
If you’re studying by distance learning, you can also apply.
If you are a Welsh student looking to study a postgraduate programme* in Glasgow then you can apply for a student loan in exactly the same way as you would for a Welsh University.
For more information visit Student Finance Wales
The University of Glasgow is pleased to be offering Postgraduate Access Scholarships to support Home students who could face financial difficulties in taking up their place to study at the University.
Applications are particularly welcomed from applicants who met any of our widening participation criteria , or equivalent, at undergraduate level.
The value of each scholarship is £4,000 and they are for students undertaking a one or two year Taught Masters programme.
For two year Taught Masters programmes, the scholarship is available in year one only.
The University of Glasgow has several Global Leadership Scholarships available to International fee students starting a postgraduate taught Masters programme in any discipline for Academic Session 2025/2026.
The scholarship is awarded as a tuition fees discount.
The University has worked in partnership with the British Council in a scheme to provide Higher Education Scholarships for Palestinians (HESPAL), for the past decade.
Through the HESPAL scheme, we have been able to offer fee waivers to students from the Palestinian Territories, enhancing educational opportunities for deserving individuals.
Considering the current challenges and the significant obstacles faced by individuals impacted by the conflict in leaving the area, the University of Glasgow extends their support in the academic year 2025/2026 to offer up to 3 postgraduate taught scholarships and up to 2 postgraduate research scholarships.
This scholarship is offered as a full fee discount.
Northern Irish students are able to apply for non-means-tested tuition fee loans of up to £5,500, to help with the costs of funding.
For more information visit www.studentfinanceni.co.uk/types-of-finance/postgraduate .
We appreciate the challenging financial implications that have arisen for our European applicants, and are therefore delighted to offer the World Changers Glasgow Scholarship PGT (EU) to new incoming EU students starting an postgraduate programme for Academic Session 2025-26.
The scholarship is awarded as a tuition fee discount of £5,000 for every year of study and is subject to satisfactory progress for consecutive years of study.
This discount cannot be combined with another University scholarship with the exception of the Alumni Discount.
The University of Glasgow is offering up to 30 Sanctuary Scholarships for applicants to the University, who have been forced to travel to the UK for humanitarian reasons and are facing challenges in progressing onto Higher Education.
The scholarship is open to prospective undergraduate and postgraduate taught students at the University of Glasgow applying for entry in September 2025/26.
Please note that you must have applied to the University before submitting an application for this scholarship.
The scholarship will meet the cost of tuition fees for the duration of your programme, for applicants who are unable to access mainstream funding through Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) or Student Finance .
The Sanctuary Scholarship also provides a £5,000 per year stipend, to assist with study costs.
In addition, if the eligibility criteria for university accommodation is met, this will also be provided for the duration of your degree, if required.
For more information on the accommodation criteria, please see the Accommodation Services section on the website.
Undergraduate students with refugee status (or equivalent) and access to funding, are eligible to apply for the scholarship and would receive the £5,000 stipend towards study costs only, if successful.
Postgraduate Taught Masters students with refugee status (or equivalent) and access to funding, are eligible to apply for the scholarship and would receive the £5,000 stipend towards study costs and a partial tuition fee waiver, to cover any shortfall not met by your Postgraduate Masters tuition fee loan.
The Dima Alhaj Scholarship was set up in 2024 in memory of a University of Glasgow alumna.
After graduating, Dima worked in Gaza with the World Health Organization as a patient administrator at the limb reconstruction centre, as part of the trauma and emergency team and was tragically killed in Gaza in November 2023.
The Scholarship is open to a Palestinian National who is living in or has been forced to leave the State of Palestine due to humanitarian reasons.
The chosen applicant may be domiciled in any country but must be a Palestinian National.
The scholarship is open to prospective undergraduate and postgraduate taught applicants to the University of Glasgow applying for entry in September 2025/26.
The Clan Gregor Society is offering an award incoming students to the University of Glasgow who descend from Clan Gregor.
Students will be asked to submit an application highlighting areas of consideration such as academic excellence and financial need.
The award is open to both Undergraduate and Postgraduate applicants who are joining us for 2025/26 entry.
The University of Glasgow is offering travel bursaries to assist with public transport travel costs, to support undergraduate and postgraduate students are currently asylum seekers and who could face financial difficulties in taking up their place to study at the University for 2025 entry.
The value of the bursary is 50% of your monthly public transport travel costs to get to University, up to a maximum value of £50 per month.
The University of Glasgow is excited to promote this scholarship opportunity on behalf of the Glasgow Highland Society.
The Glasgow Highland Society is offering multiple grants of up to £500 for new and continuing students of Glasgow university who fit the eligibility requirements of the scholarship
The scholarships above are relevant to this programme.
For more funding opportunities search the scholarships 
                            database
2.1 Hons (or non-UK equivalent) in any subject and a minimum of three years manager level work experience.
A personal statement and a detailed CV describing your work experience with specific emphasis on the managerial roles and responsibilities.
(Manager level work experience should include and highlight responsibility for planning business aims/objectives and prioritising workload to deliver these).
If your application successfully passes through the first stage of the admissions process, you will be invited to take part in an interview by Zoom.
The interview is relatively informal, lasts around 30 minutes and seeks to evaluate your suitability for the Glasgow MBA, as well as discuss your application and expectations.
The interview will enable the MBA team to get to know you and provide you with an opportunity to understand how the Glasgow MBA works.
The interview may include interaction with other candidates and you may be asked to prepare a brief presentation on a particular topic.
Focus will be on the following competencies: motivation, commercial and business awareness, team working, project management, creativity, resilience and flexibility, business ethics and communication.
For applicants from non-English speaking countries, as defined by the UK Government , the University sets a minimum English Language proficiency level.
For international students, the Home Office has confirmed that the University can choose to use these tests to make its own assessment of English language ability for visa applications to degree level programmes.
The University is also able to accept UKVI approved Secure English Language Tests (SELT) but we do not require a specific UKVI SELT for degree level programmes.
We therefore still accept any of the English tests listed for admission to this programme.
The University of Glasgow accepts evidence of the required language level from the English for Academic Study Unit Pre-sessional courses.
We would strongly encourage you to consider the pre-sessional courses at the University of Glasgow's English for Academic Study (EAS) Unit.
Our Pre-sessional courses are the best way to bring your English up to entry level for University study.
Our courses give you:
For more detail on our pre-sessional courses please see:
We can also consider the pre-sessional courses accredited by the below BALEAP approved institutions to meet the language requirements for admission to our postgraduate taught degrees:
For further information about English language requirements, please contact the Recruitment and International Office using our enquiry form
We are proud of our diverse University community that includes students and staff 
                            from more than 140 different countries.
To apply for a postgraduate taught degree you must apply online.
Please check you meet the Entry requirements for this programme before you begin your application.
You may save and return to your application as many times as you wish to update information, complete sections or upload supporting documents such as your final transcript or your language test.
For more information about submitting documents or other topics related to applying to a postgraduate taught programme, see how to apply for a postgraduate taught degree
Reference : Please provide one reference.
This should typically be an academic reference but in cases where this is not possible then a reference from a current employer may be accepted instead.
Certain programmes, such as the MBA programme, may also accept an employer reference.
If you already have a copy of a reference on letter headed paper then please upload this to your application.
If you do not already have a reference to upload then please enter your referee’s name and contact details on the online application and we will contact your referee directly.
Find out
                                                more about Application fees
For entry in September 2025
Meet some of our current students and alumni
Find out more about what some of our current students are saying about the Glasgow MBA

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/mentalhealthwellbeing:
This course covers the major cognitive, emotional, behavioural and broader psychosocial consequences of acquired brain injury.
Cognitive disorders addressed include attention, memory, and executive functioning.
In each cognitive domain, theoretical issues are discussed along with approaches to clinical assessment and rehabilitation.
Impairments of insight and awareness after brain injury are also examined.
The course is for:
This course will provide participants with ways of understanding how brain injury may impair cognition, emotion and behaviour.
Participants will learn about methods of assessment and approaches to rehabilitation which will be applicable to their own work with people who have suffered a brain injury.
Degenerative neurological conditions are common and cause very significant levels of disability.
This course will address the main psychological consequences of a wide range of degenerative neurological conditions including Alzheimer's disease, Semantic and Fronto-temporal dementias, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Multiple Sclerosis, Motor-Neurone disease, CJD and HIV-Aids.
Pharmacological and cognitive rehabilitation approaches will be considered.
This course will provide participants with ways of understanding how degenerative neurological diseases impair cognition, emotion and behaviour.
Participants will learn about methods of assessment and approaches to rehabilitation that will be applicable to their own work with people who suffer from these diseases.
This course provides an introduction to epilepsy, covering clinical assessment and diagnosis, treatment and management approaches.
The assessment of cognitive functions in epilepsy is discussed, including the use of pre-surgery cognitive assessment and WADA testing.
The assessment of patients with non-epileptic seizure disorders is also addressed.
The second part of the course covers sleep disorders, including the neuropsychological consequences of sleep related breathing disorders, along with narcolepsy, cataplexy and neurological factors in sleep disorders.
You will develop specialist knowledge of the neuropsychology of epilepsy and sleep disorders.
This course provides a comprehensive grounding in neuroscience relevant to the understanding of neurological conditions.
Sessions include neuroanatomy, neurotransmitters, neuropharmacology, neuroimaging (CT, MRI, fMRI, PET), neurosurgical techniques, neuropathology, the neurology of head injury, stroke, tumours, MS, Dementia, Parkinson's Disease, Huntingtons and the neuroscience of schizophrenia.
You will develop your knowledge of basic clinical neuroscience, neuroimaging and the underlying neuropathology associated with common neurological conditions.
This course provides an introduction to key topics in paediatric neuropsychology.
The course covers cognitive disorders including visuo-spatial problems, dyslexia, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and childhood memory disorders.
The neuropsychological consequences of autism and autistic spectrum disorders, epilepsy, head injury, and infectious diseases will be discussed.
Approaches to rehabilitation for children will be considered.
You will develop a detailed understanding of the nature of common neuropsychological disorders that may arise from neurological injury or illness in children, how to assess the disorders and how you can improve your rehabilitation work with children.
This course covers the major cognitive and emotional consequences of Stroke.
Topics addressed include disorders of language and cognitive communication, object and face perception, unilateral neglect, topographic orientation and apraxia.
The use of cognitive-behaviour therapy in the context of stroke and other forms of acquired brain injury is discussed.
This course will provide participants with ways of understanding how stroke may impair cognition, and emotion.
Participants will learn about methods of assessment of cognitive functions and approaches to rehabilitation that will be applicable to their own work with people who have suffered a stroke.
For further information and application packs, or to discuss the programme further, please contact:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/medicine/nursing/cpd/slm:
We are one of the country's top Lymphoedema Education Providers.
The programme offers:
For further information, including course content, dates of attendance and deadlines for assessment, please use below links:
We offer a comprehensive range of educational opportunities for nurses, physiotherapists and occupational therapists from any setting to develop core skills, knowledge and application of this knowledge of people with lymphoedema or chronic oedema with lymphatic insufficiency, with progression to Specialist Advanced levels.
The programme of four courses aims to prepare health care professionals for the care and management of people with lymphoedema or chronic oedema including identifying and advising those at risk of developing the condition.
Some courses are suited to health professionals who see patients with chronic swelling as part of their wider remit and some are appropriate for those wishing to undertake specialist treatment of lymphoedema.
Learning together in a multi professional context serves to promote the development of integrated, inter-professional perspectives and understanding.
All courses have a strong clinical focus that is supported through involvement and collaborative work with practitioners.
We offer a Graduate Certificate in Lymphoedema Practice (60 credits - first two courses), reflecting the knowledge and skills level of a health care professional Band 5 Lymphoedema Practitioner as proposed in the Lymphoedema Framework, Template for Management (Sneddon, 2007).
OR
A Graduate Diploma in Specialist Lymphoedema Management (120 credits - all 4 courses) , reflecting the knowledge and skills level of a health care professional Band 6 Lymphoedema Specialist Practitioner (Sneddon, 2007).
This specialist framework is based on the Skills for Health Career Framework (www.skillsforhealth.org.uk 2007) and the Knowledge and Skills Framework (www.doh.gov.uk  2004).
A Postgraduate Certificate in Advanced Lymphoedema Management (60 credits) preparing the student to the level of a health care professional Band 7 Lymphoedema Advanced Practitioner as proposed in the Lymphoedema Framework Template for Management (Sneddon, 2007).
This specialist framework is based on the Skills for Health Career Framework (www.skillsforhealth.org.uk 2007) and the Knowledge and Skills Framework (www.doh.gov.uk 2004).
Courses within the programme may also be undertaken at continuing professional development without academic assessment.
The programme uses a unique combination of supported workplace learning, University attendance and on-line virtual learning environment to provide contemporary and interesting learning opportunities.
These are designed and delivered by experienced academic and clinical staff with expertise in lymphoedema and other related clinical and research fields.
The courses attract professionals from all over the UK with the teaching of Manual Lymphatic Drainage based in the Casley-Smith method.
To find out which route of study will best suit your learning needs and requirements, the below diagram will provide some helpful guidance:
To discuss this further, please contact our Lymphoedema Team on 0141 330 3917 or lymph@glasgow.ac.uk
"Am I eligible to apply?"
Yes, if you hold a first degree or equivalent and a professional qualification as either a Registered Nurse or Allied Health Professional.
You will have a minimum clinical experience equivalent to 2 years full time employment since qualifying and current or pre-arranged access to patients with chronic oedema/lymphoedema.
"Can I apply online?"
Yes.
You can apply for any of our courses online.
"How do I apply?"
Apply for our courses using the appropriate link and codes specified in the "How to apply" section.
"What can I expect from the course?"
You will be required to attend some taught sessions at the Unviersity of Glasgow, with a mix of online work and clinical practice in your own area, alongside your mentor.
"How will I be supported?"
You will receive regular feedback, one-to-one tutorials, online activities and all of the regular support offered to our Students by the University.
We actively encourage peer support, enabling our students to collaborate and share their experiences.
"Will I need to arrange a Mentor prior to attending?"
You will be required to arrange opportunities to assess and treat patients presenting with uncomplicated chronic oedema/lymphoedema as part of your work-based learning.
Some of these need to be undertaken with your Mentor.
"How many hours of study are required?"
Most students find that they need to set aside approximately 2 evenings per week.
Additionally you will be required to spend a minimum of 5-10 hours with your mentor in your own clinical practice (depending on which course you are attending).
"What IT skills will I be required to have?"
It is important that you have use of a computer and that you are to use the internet, email and word processing tools as standard.
Technical support is provided by our IT Support & Training team, so you won't be alone!
If you require any further information, please email: lymph@glasgow.ac.uk
Andrea Stigent - Lymphoedema Specialist Physiotherapist
"If you were thinking about improving your clinical and academic skills I would say, “go for it!” I never expected to enjoy it as much as I have and hopefully you will feel the same.
Arriving at the University on the first day was nerve wracking.
Going back to studying was a frightening thought but needn’t have worried.
We were immediately put at ease and by the programme director and soon we felt like we’d known each other for years.
Our cohort consisted of nurses, physiotherapists and an occupational therapist and we were encouraged to learn from each other.
Everyone, even those with several years of experience of lymphoedema found the courses useful and informative.
The initial courses covered the basic anatomy and physiology of the lymphatic system, the pathophysiology of lymphoedema and develop your assessment skills, all in a supportive environment.
In addition to the clinical skills, we also gained knowledge in the skill of critical appraisal, an essential aspect of working at this academic level.
We now realised that we had not only to be good clinicians, but also had to look to the future, planning to meet the needs of both patients, staff and the service as a whole – the “bigger picture”.
We were supplied with help and advice on different strategies to try and sent off to develop our ideas.
Although possible for experienced professionals to take the course without a formal assessment, this may be a missed opportunity because the feedback received from teaching staff and students alike is invaluable."
Rachael Hutton - Lymphoedema Nurse Specialist
The three Glasgow University lymphoedema courses have helped drag me into a modern approach modern world of nursing.
Days were spent writing and rewriting my first assignment, pushing my very basic word processing abilities to the limit.
In traditional nursing style I battled on, refusing to seek outside help, and resisting having the use of anymore computer related tools, such as e-mail.
When results came through of the assignment…….I had failed.
I was mortified, all that time and hard work had not paid off.
Swallowing my pride I finally accepted times had changed and I needed to go with the flow if I was to progress.
Embracing modern technology was the only way forward and I grabbed whatever help I could.
Help from staff at Glasgow University was fantastic.
They were always happy to help and always prompt at returning e mails.
The Glasgow University course leaders always took very good care of us too.
All three lymphoedema courses were outstanding.
Each one was packed with useful information, practical sessions, and interesting speakers.
At all times students’ individual needs were met and as classes were small we bonded well.
Though the academic side of the courses has been tough, the quality teaching and support has pulled us all through to a level of confidence and competence that we could only dream of when we started out.
Looking back I can see I have been gently dragged (with only some kicking and screaming) from the dark ages into a much better world.
Forget the typewriter, where’s my iPad ?
Lorna MacLean - MCL Student
I have found the University of Glasgow lymphoedema courses extremely helpful.
Since undertaking the courses (especially module 3), I now realise how limited my knowledge was around lymphoedema.
As well as increasing my understanding of the theory of lymphoedema, the course has given me the confidence to question the practice in my area and make my own clinical decisions.
Being able to discuss cases with my tutors and fellow students has been invaluable.
The course has taught me how to analyse articles critically and the importance of keeping up to date and reading regularly.
Being shown MLD and MLLB and being able to practice these skills as often as I required, while in Glasgow, was invaluable.
The tutors were very patient and watching the videos on MLD was great for revision.
Since doing the course, I feel I am more pro-active with treatment choices and I'm not scared to try something new.
If I'm not sure what to do, I will ask for guidance.
I feel my patients are receiving better treatments now.
Meabh Prendergast
I attended the Specialist Lymphoedema Management Graduate Diploma at the University of Glasgow from 2012-2014.
I was working as a Staff Nurse in Vascular Out-Patients in Ireland, and had begun to notice that many of our patients attending with lymphoedema or chronic oedema were not receiving optimal care for these issues, I wanted to learn best how to help them to manage their condition.
I chose to attend the University of Glasgow as their approach to blended learning stood out among the other courses on offer, especially as I was based outside of the UK.
I cannot say enough good things about the time I spent with the students and staff of the specialist Lymphoedema Management courses.
All the tutors are experienced professionals who have vast clinical experience in addition to their academic skills.
This is hugely important when learning how to treat patients with lymphoedema/chronic oedema, as the practical element of the course is just necessary as the academic.
The course has not only given me a specialist academic qualification, certification in manual lymph drainage (MLD), and taught me about the management of these conditions, but has also immensely improved my critical thinking skills, a major requirement in all specialist courses.
There is a great atmosphere here, everyone is friendly and approachable and because the clinical background of students can be varied, we all contribute to each other’s learning.
If anyone is considering a career in Lymphoedema Management practice - there is only one place to study and that is the University of Glasgow!
Carol Brailsford - Macmillan Clinical Specialist Lymphoedema/Chronic Oedema
"Every time I come here for a course or part of a course, I leave feeling more confident”
Free online one week introductory course - 7th to 11th July 2025
This course is an introduction to the management of chronic oedema for anyone with an interest in this area.
The course is supported for one week, however, the resources will be available for one month to allow for completion by participants in their own time.
The course consists of reading material, forum discussion and live sessions with experts in managing chronic oedema.
It will take approximately 5-8 hours of study time to complete.
There are quizzes and case studies to check learning and progress, as well as the interactive forums.
A CPD completion certificate can be produced at the end of the course.
Places are limited and must be booked by June 25th.
To book a place on the course or for any further queries, please contact: lymph@glasgow.ac.uk
This course is intended to review and update Casley-Smith technique, MLD skills and knowledge in peer review environment to share best practice.
Also to present the latest research, review clinical decision making at advanced practitioner/consultant lymphoedema therapist/nurse level, using case studies as a learning framework.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/cpdforteachers:
The School of Education provides an extensive range of CPD opportunities for teachers and others involved in education.
Our CPD is designed to be as flexible as possible, including daytime, evening, weekend and vacation modes, and ranging from one-off courses to full programmes.
We offer CPD opportunities for teachers in several areas:
++++
Venue
St Andrew's Building, 11 Eldon Street, Glasgow  G3 6NH
Course audience
An invitation to all staff interested in Grief Education - with particular reference to Primary, Secondary, Additional Support Staff, Psychologists, classroom / pupil assistants, EAL support staff.
Course content/aims
This two day event is an exciting opportunity for class teachers and senior managers in schools to explore a programme rooted in the best that contemporary psychology and education have to offer.
Seasons for Growth is a loss and grief education programme catering for young people aged 6 - 18 years.
It is based on the belief that grief is a normal and valuable part of life itself and that children and adolescents need to be provided with the opportunity to examine how grief as a result of death, separation or divorce, has impacted on their lives.
The educative process underpinning Seasons for Growth provides the opportunity for each participant to integrate, at his/her developmental level, the appropriate knowledge, skills and attitudes to understand and to cope with loss and grief.
The purpose of this two day workshop is to equip teachers to assist young people to understand the grief that is experienced because of the loss of a parent or significant other through death, separation or divorce.
Attendance at the Seasons for Growth course will enable and qualify educators to run a Seasons for Growth peer support group for young people within the school setting.
Information about the tutor
The course will be led by Mary Lappin who is a Lecturer in the School of Education, University of Glasgow.
She has extensive experience and expertise in the field of Grief and Loss Education and pioneered the introduction of the 'Seasons for Growth' Grief Education programme in Scotland.
This course can be commissioned by schools / local authorities and any other interested parties .
For further information and to negotiate suitable delivery date(s) please telephone 0141 330 3036 or email education-cpd@glasgow.ac.uk
----
Tuesday 31 October 2023, 9.30am–3.30 pm
Audience
This entirely practical, full-day workshop is aimed at Secondary English teachers, including Probationers, who would like to consider ways of challenging pupils to produce excellent results at National 5 level, using exemplification explicitly.
The cost of the full day course will be £150 per person , including lunch and coffee.
The course will be held in the St Andrew's Building, 11 Eldon Street, Glasgow, G3 6NH.
Please bring a laptop computer to the meeting.
Content
Exemplars of creative and discursive writing ranging from 15/15 to 12/15 will be used.
The strengths of each script will be identified, and we will also compare each script to the other as well as considering how leaners can develop their writing skills by using non-exemplar materials.
This procedure will be repeated with critical essay exemplars covering a range of genres again from the higher ranges from 20/20 to 16/20.
This workshop will be led by Professor Willie McGuire, Principal Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (PFHEA), Senior Fellow of the Staff and Education Development Association (SFSEDA), Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (FRSA), Programme Leader for the MEd (Prof Prac) and Course Co-ordinator for PGS English within the School of Education.
Willie has been a leading figure in national developments in English for over three decades as a National Qualifications Development Specialist, Examiner, and Setter for the SQA.
He is also a former Local Authority Quality Improvement Officer, Staff Tutor, and Principal Teacher.
He has won several teaching excellence awards as well as the Vidya Ratan award from India for research excellence.
Comments from participants on previous courses
Wednesday 1 November 2023, 9.30am-3.30pm
This entirely practical, full-day workshop is aimed at Secondary English teachers, including Probationers, who would like to consider ways of challenging pupils to produce excellent results at Higher level, using exemplification, explicitly.
University of Glasgow, School of Education, St Andrew's Building, 11 Eldon Street, Glasgow G3 6NH.
This full day course is aimed at Secondary Chemistry teachers, including those teaching Higher for the first time.
The course will focus on the areas that candidates find most challenging and will seek to help teachers prepare students to achieve their best performance in the assignment and exam.
Assignment support, including
Teaching areas of the course that students find demanding in the exam, including
Writing a prelim
Questions encouraged throughout
This course will be led by Clare Smith, Lecturer in Science Education (Chemistry) within the School of Education.
Clare holds a senior appointment in the Higher Chemistry team and has worked as a Setter, Examiner and Reviewer for SQA since 2011.
She has provided In-Service training for several Local Authorities and worked as a Chemistry Teacher and Chemistry Lecturer before joining the School of Education in May 2019.
To apply for a course, please complete the registration form link contained within the course details.
If you require further information regarding any of the courses described on our website please contact:
School of Education University of Glasgow St Andrew's Building 11 Eldon Street Glasgow G3 6NH
Email: education-cpd@glasgow.ac.uk
Our courses and programmes can be commissioned by schools and local authorities and any other interested parties.
If you wish to obtain further details regarding this provision and negotiate suitable delivery date(s), please email education-cpd@glasgow.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/cpd/atqreforcatholicschools:
This course will critically explore Catholic theological understanding of Liturgy, Sacraments, Christology and Revelation.
This course is a blend of face-to-face and online teaching.
The course begins in August 2025.
The course provides opportunities for students to develop and to demonstrate knowledge and understanding, skills and other attributes as described below.
By the end of this course, students will be able to:
The course will be summatively assessed, by a written 4000 word equivalent, portfolio in which participants demonstrate their knowledge, understanding, skills and practical application of the themes of the course.
This course will critically explore theological understandings of Ecclesiology, Ethics & Morality and the Abrahamic Religions.
Face-to-face teaching dates: TBC
By the end of this course students will be able to:
The course will be summatively assessed by a written 4,000 word equivalent portfolio in which participants demonstrate their knowledge, understanding, skills and practical application of the themes of the programme.
Applicants are expected to pay the full fee or source funding for the programme.
To apply for the ATQRE programme at the University of Glasgow, please submit an application via the Online Application System.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/bohvm/study/cpd:
We are dedicated to supporting lifelong learning by offering a diverse range of high-quality short courses tailored for practising veterinary surgeons across the UK.
Our CPD programmes are highly regarded by professionals seeking to expand their expertise in various areas of veterinary medicine.
Covering a wide spectrum of species, these courses combine in-depth knowledge with practical, hands-on training designed to be directly applicable in clinical practice.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/cultural-heritage-skills-for-business:
Cultural Heritage Skills for Business (UG)
Microcredential
Duration: 10 weeks Credits: 10 Academic Credits (UG) Delivery: All course content is delivered on Moodle, our virtual learning platform.
You will converse with the tutors and fellow students in online forums.
Timetable: Fully online and flexible, with no scheduled classes to attend.
Funding: You are eligible for a fully funded place on this course if you are Scottish-domiciled and/or work for an organisation based in Scotland.
College: College of Arts & Humanities School: School of Critical Studies
This course isn't running at the moment.
Subscribe to our Mailing List for alerts about future offerings!
In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has become increasingly clear that cultural spaces and dynamics play a vital role in our well-being as human beings.
Not only can engaging with cultural history bring us personal enrichment, but it can also provide economic benefits through tourism and recreation.
As stewards of our environment, it is our responsibility to make the most responsible use of our resources, and that includes harnessing the cultural power of ‘the local.’ This course empowers learners with the tools to unlock the vast potential of the cultural heritage that surrounds us.
Upon completion of this course, you will be able to:
This course is designed to help learners tap into the rich cultural heritage on their doorsteps for invaluable business development .
It will cover the following topics:
Week 1: Welcome: A Grand Tour of Scotland
Week 2: What's in a Name?
Week 3: Language & Identity
Week 4: Building Scotland
Week 5: Digging Scotland
Week 6: Soundscapes
Week 7: Writing Scotland
Week 8: Material Culture
Week 9: Sporting Greats
Week 10: Scots Abroad
Learners will write and present a 10-minute presentation.
Learners will produce a 2000-word written assignment.
Learners who choose to submit both assessments will be awarded 10 Academic Credits towards a relevant Master’s degree at the University of Glasgow.
This course is designed and delivered by Dr Sarah Leith , Dr Craig Lamont , Dr Catriona Macdonald and Professor Gerard Carruthers .
Sarah is a historian of the 20th century, while Craig is an expert in Commemoration Studies, specialising in the history of Georgian Glasgow.
Catriona is a Trustee of the National Museum of Scotland and winner of the Saltire History Book of the Year for her monograph on modern Scotland.
Gerard is an expert on Robert Burns, Hon Advisor to the NTS, and a member of the Paisley Museum Re-Imagined Research and Ethics Panel.
Both Catriona and Gerard are part of a team that have won two prizes for their online course design and delivery.
This course is designed to equip learners with skills to progress into the following roles and industries:
Completion of this course grants potential for:
It is suggested that learners on this course are educated to at least SCQF Level 6 and have an IELTS equivalent of 6.5.
Learners will not be asked to prove their academic or professional history.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/datavisualisation:
Data Visualisation: Graphics for Impact (UG)
Duration: 5 weeks Credits: 5 Academic Credits (UG) Delivery: All course content is delivered on Moodle, our virtual learning platform.
College: College of Social Sciences School: School of Social & Political Sciences
In the business world, data is critical for making informed decisions and justifying policies and budgets.
One of the most effective ways to communicate data is through data visualisations, such as graphs, maps, bar charts, and interactive trendlines.
These visualisations can quickly tell a complete story, bring reports to life, and spread important messages.
However, to be effective analysis tools, they must be trustworthy, accessible, and able to facilitate better understanding.
This course is designed to help you plan, create, and distribute powerful data visualisations that aid decision-making, enable effective reporting, and communicate clear messages.
This course is designed to provide learners with a progression of skills from basic to intermediate in the field of Data Visualisation.
It will cover the following topics:
Week 1: Understanding Visualisations: Looking At & Analysing Data
Week 2: Making & Reporting Visualisations
Week 3: Mastering Visualisation: Trust, Best Practices & Reporting
Week 4: Diversifying Graphs: Maps, Networks, Text & Data Narratives
Week 5: Empowering Visualisations: Interactive Graphs & Publishing on the Web
Completed in Week 3, learners will be given an initial opportunity to apply their new skills.
Feedback will be provided.
Learners will complete a data visualisation task using data of their choice.
The task will involve producing and discussing a visualisation.
Set in Week 4.
Due in May 2023.
Learners who choose to submit this assessment will be awarded 5 Academic Credits towards a relevant Undergraduate degree at the University of Glasgow.
Learners would benefit from prior experience of statistical software (particularly R), perhaps acquired through Dr Emily Nordman’s Upskilling course, Applied Data Skills for Processing and Presenting Data .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/digitaltransformation:
Digital Transformation For Third Sector Leaders (PGT)
College: College of Social Sciences School: School of Social & Environmental Sustainability
Elevate your leadership skills and unlock the full potential of digital transformation for your organisation's success with this Upskilling course.
Designed for senior staff and leaders in third sector organisations, this course empowers learners to cultivate essential digital transformation leadership skills, enabling them to craft effective strategies for their organisations to seamlessly align with short- and long-term objectives and providing a fundamental understanding of how relevant technology platforms operate.
This course is designed to equip thrid sector leaders with valuable skills to drive effective digital transformation.
Week 1: What is Technology?
Week 2: Hardware & Software
Week 3: Idea Development & Problem Solving
Week 4: Business Model Development
Week 5: Business Model Canvas: The First Step in Transformation
Week 6: Transformation Approaches & Strategies
Week 7: Leadership for Transformation & Sustainability
Week 8: Entrepreneurship & Intrapreneurship
Week 9: The Strategy Document
Week 10: Online Live Q&A Session
Learners will produce a 2,000 word framework for a digital transformation project which sets out a strategy and plan for delivering transformational business and operational change.
Strategies should articulate the economic, social and environmental benefits of digital transformation, and detail an associated action plan.
Learners who choose to submit this assessment will be awarded 10 Academic Credits towards a relevant Undergraduate degree at the University of Glasgow.
This course is designed and delivered by Professor Douglas Shand , Professor of Leadership and Enterprise at the School of Social and Environmental Sustainability.
Douglas is an internationally recognised leader in delivering business benefit from emerging and disruptive technologies.
His career has included senior leadership and executive roles at global blue-chip businesses such as Oracle and PwC and several technology start-ups.
Douglas has won international awards for innovation and is an expert in the application of Agile methodologies in both software development and general business strategy.
He provides strategy and M&A advice to Private Equity and Venture Capital investors.
He mentors companies in the telecoms and emerging technology sectors.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/introductiontoinformationmanagement:
Introduction to Information Management (PGT)
Duration: 10 weeks Credits: 10 Academic Credits (PG) Delivery: All course content is delivered on Moodle, our virtual learning platform.
College: College of Arts & Humanities School: School of Humanities
Information management is crucial to everything we do; from the way we navigate the world to how we interact with services.
Good records and information management are essential for ensuring that the data we create and use is accurate, whether it is on an individual or organisational level.
We all want our personal data to be accurate and managed and used appropriately, and we want organisations like the NHS, central and local governments, charities, and businesses to be accountable for their role in this process.
This course will introduce you to the principles of efficient and ethical information management and provide an understanding of how these can be applied to ensure the accuracy and accountability of data.
This course is formally accredited by CILIP (the Library and Information Association), a professional organisation that represents and supports information professionals.
This accreditation provides valuable recognition in the fields of records, information management and libraries.
This course is designed to provide learners with a better understanding of the fundamentals of records and information management.
Week 1: Introduction
Week 2: Organisational & Environmental Context
Week 3: Collections & Collecting
Week 4: Ethics of Managing Information
Week 5: Personal Data & Data Protection
Week 6: Public Data & Freedom of Information
Week 7: Copyright
Week 8: Exploiting Information
Week 9: Strategy, Planning & Management
Week 10: Course Summary & Roundup
Learners will produce weekly forum posts which will feed into a Final Portfolio, due 2 weeks after Week 10.
Learners who choose to submit this assessment will be awarded 10 Academic Credits towards a relevant Master’s degree at the University of Glasgow.
This course is designed and delivered by Adele Redhead , and aided by Dr David McMenemy and colleagues from Information Studies and beyond.
Adele is a senior lecturer in Information Studies at the University of Glasgow.
She previously worked as an Archivist and Records Manager and has professional experience in several different sectors, including Higher Education, Local Government, and the third sector.
David’s first professional role was working as a Library Assistant and then Librarian in Glasgow's Mitchell Library.
There, he developed digital resources such as the Virtual Mitchell and Thomas Lipton Digital Collections .
David then moved into academia at the University of Strathclyde in 2001, and joined the University of Glasgow's Information Studies team in 2022.
It is suggested that learners on this course are educated to at least Undergraduate level and have an IELTS equivalent of 6.5.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/learnersuccessstories:
Since 2020, the University of Glasgow's Microcredentials have empowered over 8 thousand learners from Scotland and beyond to upskill and reskill.
Through our courses, our learners have gained valuable skills, knowledge, and academic credits that have paved the way for exciting career advancements and further academic pursuits.
From newfound confidence and expanded professional networks, to higher earning potential and coveted promotion offers, our learners' success stories are truly inspiring.
Whether you're considering taking one of our Microcredentials or simply looking for some motivation, we invite you to explore these stories and see the transformative power of upskilling in action.
After citing this course on my CV and applying for new jobs, I received two interview invitations right away and I quickly accepted a job offer with better pay at an amazing company!
Past Learner Project Management
A great experience.
I have since been successful in my application for a promotion !
Claire Killin Project Management
My confidence has returned.
Gillian Jack Introduction to Management & Leadership in Health Services
I now feel confident in undertaking master's level academic study and moving towards my career goals of becoming a specialist nurse.
Sarah Huggett Introduction to Management & Leadership in Health Services
I now feel equipped to continue with postgraduate study and apply for more challenging leadership roles .
Marie Peck Leading Successful Teams
"When I began this course, I didn't have a lot of self-confidence, and there were elements of my current role which I felt warranted knowledge and skills that I just didn't have yet.
Completing it confirmed a belief that data and coding are not only areas am I interested in, but that I am capable of being good at .
This course has made me enjoy my current role more as it has opened a new avenue for self-development and equipped me with unique skills .
I have made new friends and started to grow a different professional network .
My ability to problem-solve has improved, my self- confidence has grown, and I no longer look upon mistakes as anything other than part of a learning journey.
The teaching team were exceptionally active and supportive across the ten weeks.
I never saw an enquiry go unanswered.
Not only was there content for all levels of ability and a vast amount of additional material available, but there were also links to suggested further reading.
I would always encourage people to enrol in a UofG Upskilling course.
You will absolutely get far more out of it than you think."
Emma Smillie Applied Data Skills for Processing & Presenting Data
" I completed this course during the energy, excitement and passion of COP26 in Glasgow as the world leaders descended on the city.
This whirlpool of emotions, reflections and frustrations transferred onto the course as learners fully engaged in the online forums.
The course materials came alive as both students and staff were able to critically evaluate almost daily changes to climate policy and outcomes generating significant debate.
This enthusiasm generated for me further insight and understanding into both global and local climate issues.
November 2021 will be a milestone in my learning as the excellent content and teaching on this course combined with live political developments provided a rich and enjoyable opportunity to truly upskill ."
Mark Cairney Systems Thinking: Climate Change & Sustainable Decision Making
"When the COVID-19 pandemic hit, like many, my contract was cut.
I was working in academia but had always been interested in service design for the public sector and was lucky to secure a Service Designer role within the NHS.
This course helped me to develop my skills in this new area, making me confident and persuasive with my work after lacking this due to previously working remotely.
It enhanced my understanding of management and leadership theories, and improved my adaptability, creativity, innovation, and analytical skills.
The reading material and class engagement clarified to me that, despite the varying perspectives, opinions, visions, and objectives of those working in different roles in the healthcare system, we are all working to do the same thing: to improve the lives of others, in many shapes and forms.
I have loved getting back into studying, especially through a subject that is fresh to me.
This course helped me to efficiently organise and manage my workload, including scheduling time to read articles, engage in conversations, and listen to podcasts, which was utterly refreshing .
It has enhanced my approach to design, collaboration, management, and leadership, all of which, I think, are the foundations to a working within a complex environment."
Vanessa Lang Introduction to Management & Leadership in Health Services
"I took this course to gain specific Project Management skills and academic credentials, as I frequently work on projects at work unofficially, but knew the only way to progress into a managerial role was to enhance my CV with an official qualification.
Having not studied for twenty years, completing this course online was daunting at first, but a great experience .
I have since been successful in my application for a promotion !"
"This course, unlike others, concentrates on skills required for the workplace and is heavily focussed on practical issues such as business imperatives, managing people, setting priorities and tight deadlines.
Since completing it, I have managed to move from working in a large HR team to working largely independently with increased responsibility .
I utilise my new skills in my everyday working life."
Sarah Garden Project Management
“I had always been keen to explore Project Management, and this course was an invaluable introduction .
I saved templates , tips, and notes from my tutors, who were very knowledgeabl e , passionate, and helpful .
After citing this course on my CV and applying for new jobs, I received two interview invitations right away and I quickly accepted a job offer with better pay at an amazing company!
"
"I enjoyed the dialogue with other students and the interaction with course leaders.
As a senior professional in the NHS, accessing health intellect to this breadth and standard was a breath of fresh air .
I felt invigorated and able to be clinically creative again.
Before the pandemic, I actively led on researching and presenting new ideas at work, but I lost the confidence to do this.
This course made me value my own learning and take time to consolidate my knowledge, and I now feel that my confidence has returned .
The standard of teaching and sharing is exceptional , and you feel very engaged.
I actually got excited about logging on in the evening to learn!
Everyone was hugely supportive and there was no rivalry, just mutual respect and sharing.
There was a genuine clinical community who cared which helped me with work challenges."
"This course has taught me key managerial skills which have been effective in both my personal and professional life .
I found the course content very interesting .
It made me think and look at the study material in a different way and consider practical solutions to the management of key personnel.
If I was to lead a project team in the future, I would know how to effectively manage this team .
I would highly recommend this course.
There is a high level of interaction, and you can learn from other learners.
The course is practical and informative and will be very useful for anyone who is trying to learn new skills or move into a managerial position in the future."
Alison Campbell Leading Successful Teams
"Since completing this course, I have practiced and encouraged compassionate leadership and management in all aspects of my professional life, and I now feel confident in undertaking master's level academic study and moving towards my career goals of becoming a specialist nurse.
This course has helped me gain insight into what is required of a good manager and has put me in a stronger position to overcome future hurdles by having an open-mind and being adaptable to workplace changes.
From the diversity of subjects to the variety of lecturers and speakers, I remained engaged throughout all ten weeks.
I would jump on the opportunity to undertake an Upskilling course at the University of Glasgow again .”
"This course challenged my thinking and developed my confidence in both my personal and professional life .
It provided me with more belief in myself and my ideas and confirmed the importance of exploring different viewpoints and collaboration.
The additional reading materials suggested by the course leads were hugely beneficial and supported great discussion and debate amongst both students and teachers."
Tracey Leete Introduction to Management & Leadership in Health Services
" This course provided me with a toolkit for change grounded in evidence and practice examples that I could transfer into my everyday practice.
The course materials, visuals, and forums offered a diverse platform to explore scenario planning and cultural mapping.
Each week clarified my learning needs and strengths, giving me a clear sense of purpose and direction .
I would recommend this course to those new to change management and those wishing to sharpen their knowledge.
Mark Cairney Change Management
"In my current role, I am implementing a new intermediate model of care in my service, and th is course has helped me to understand the intricacies involved with this, as well as how to overcome t he challenges o f multi-agency working and health policy.
It has also given me the opportunity to experience academia again and inspired me to undertake more academic courses to support my career development."
Imran Hafeez Introduction to Management & Leadership in Health Services
"C OVID -19 impacted my confidence as a leader , but through learning about invaluable current leadership theories, concepts, practical application, and best practices at such a high level , this course has allowed me to rebuild it.
I now feel equipped to continue with postgraduate study and apply for more challenging leadership roles ."
"The flexibility of this course was great.
My two jobs are very full on, so I was unsure if I would have the time to complete the coursework, but online , flexible learning is effective for fitting in around other commitments and the minimum work guideline provided by course leads helped me to prioritise tasks."
Kiera Bowden Intercultural Understanding
" This course has helped me to develop more skills in my current role , and knowledge that has opened up promotional opportunities for the future.
I would highly recommend it.
Avril Quigg Introduction to Management & Leadership in Health Services
"T his course improved my confidence in my abilit y to self-motivate , adapt and learn new skills .
It was a great way of trying my hand at something new and to experiment, but with real tangible benefits going forward.
A tremendous opportunity."
Lauren Roberts Systems Thinking: Climate Change & Sustainable Decision Making
" This course provided me with life-changing insight and understanding of the impact COVID-19 had on health services and professionals at a strategic, operational and practice level.
Exhausted NHS staff joined the forums after 12+ hour shifts to reflect on and share their daily experiences, determined to discuss and learn more about how they could inform new and innovative management and leadership approaches.
This experiential learning breathed new life into the course materials, and proved valuable in my planning and writing of the course assessment."
Mark Cairney Introduction to Management & Leadership in Health Services
"Undertaking this course has helped improve my confidence in talking to veterans and anybody who has experienced trauma in their lives .
The students and course leads were extremely helpful and sociable , creating a welcoming atmosphere .
I appreciated how quick fellow students were to help others who needed advice.
I guarantee you will learn something new every week on this course .”
Andrew Clark Impact of Trauma on Mental Health
"I had not coded since my U ndergraduate d egree , so this course threw me in at the deep end, but it paid off.
I can now competently use R Studio to analyse data which will definitely benefit my career development ."
Lauren Roberts Applied Data Skills for Processing & Presenting Data
"Since the COVID-19 pandemic started, I have seen a rise in anxiety - related illness and disordered eating among patients .
This course has helped me to focus on improving treatments for mental distress with a focus on holistic care .
I am now more sensitive to why such disorders happen , how we, through our lack of understanding as healthcare professionals, can cause our patients significant distress , and how to avoid this."
Victoria McLauchlan Impact of Trauma on Mental Health
"In working through this course, I have developed a great awareness of how to understand and meet the needs of young carers who have or are experiencing trauma s , and how to signpost them to appropriate additional support.
I have used my new skillset to broach issue s at work in a more supportive way by listening more effectively and open ing the door in conversations."
Lisa Falconer Impact of Trauma on Mental Health
"A credible teaching team, with varied and interesting course material.
This course was a good opportunity to learn from others' experience.
Online and flexible is the only way I could fit a course like this around my shift based clinical commitments!"
Catherine Ward Introduction to Management & Leadership in Health Services
I wholeheartedly enjoyed doing this course.
It was very well structured, with weekly recorded video lectures, self-study and forum tasks.
The course content was available in full right from the start, allowing me to study asynchronously and adjust my study hours to my work schedule.
The lectures gave a great overview of the subject and had a very good mix of text, facts and graphs.
All the information was very up-to-date, which I really appreciated.
I loved that the course included a mini-course on writing a policy brief so that I felt well prepared when the time of writing the assessment came.
Doing the course has given me the confidence and skills to found a social enterprise that helps with the transition to NetZero in my local community.
I absolutely recommend this course!
Heike Gehringer Sustainable Tourism
Taking this course has been an eye-opening experience for me.
As someone deeply rooted in the world of sustainable architecture and building energy efficiency, I've always looked for ways to blend my technical skills with my passion for preserving our planet.
This course has done exactly that, bridging the gap between my professional expertise and a broader vision of sustainability.
Through this journey, I've gained invaluable insights into how sustainable tourism can be a powerful tool for conservation and community development, all while aligning perfectly with the principles of sustainable design I hold dear.
This learning journey has reaffirmed my belief in the importance of continuous growth and adaptation.
It's not just about the technical skills; it's about understanding the broader context of our work and its impact on the world.
I'm excited to see where this new knowledge takes me, both in my career and in my personal quest to support a more sustainable future.
Azra Maliha Sustainable Tourism
I wanted to take this course as I have long been interested in Project Management, and have often thought that a career either as a Project Manager, or in a similar role, would be for me.
From everything that I have learned, this still holds true, and I am going to continue looking to migrate to this type of work.
It was interesting to hear the term 'accidental project manager' used at the beginning of the course, as this is a role I have found myself falling into more than once.
Next time, I will be better equipped to identify that this is happening, and able to structure workflow better.
While undertaking this course after a very long break from higher education was a little intimidating, I am really glad that I did it.
I have learned a lot of interesting things that I will continue to use - whether project-based or not - and the course materials have made me look at various elements of my work in a new way.
Timothy Perry Project Management
"From a personal development point of view, I’m doing deeper thinking about the tools and techniques I teach and how to adapt them in light of my new insights.
To bring all of these into my wider teaching practice feels like a valuable asset from participating in two short-term, online courses that have offered me learning from both their content and how they were delivered ."
Heather Shearer Past Learner
"Before coming on the course, I'd just always seen end of life care from a medical point of view.
I'd never really considered the social aspects, the community aspects, which I now consider to be more important and more valuble aspects of death and dying.
I've gained so much insight that I will take back to my practice."
Past Learner End of Life Challenges and Palliative Care

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/substanceuse:
Substance Use in a Contemporary World (PGT)
College: College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences School: College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences Graduate School
Since 2000, Scotland has faced a substantial rise in the number of deaths related to substance use.
Connected to this rise is an increase in the number of substance-related harms to health and wellbeing, faced by those consuming substances, their friends and families, and wider communities.
The reasons people use substances are complex and related to wider patterns of social inequalities.
This course aims to help learners understand the complexities of substance use in the contemporary world.
This course is designed to introduce learners to theoretical perspectives and key debates about substance use.
Week 1: Course Introduction
Week 2: Substance Use & Stigma
Week 3: Understanding Substance Use Problems
Week 4: Early Theories of Substance Use
Week 5: Social & Biopsychosocial Understandings of Substance Use
Week 6: Changing Patterns in Substance Use
Week 7: Substance Use Pathways
Week 8: Introduction to Recovery & Harm Reduction
Week 9: Exploring Recovery & Harm Reduction
Week 10: Harm to Others & Radical Solutions
There are two optional assessments for this course (one worth 40% and one worth 60%).
This course is designed and delivered by Dr Sharon Greenwood , Dr Lucy Pickering and Dr Joyce Nicholson .
Sharon, Lucy, and Joyce have a wealth of experience of working, teaching, and researching substance use over the past 30 years.
Sharon and Joyce hold expertise on the impact of alcohol and drug use on children and family members in Scotland, while Lucy brings an intricate knowledge of those recovering from heroin use.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/systemsthinkingclimatechangesustainabledecisionmaking:
Systems Thinking: Climate Change & Sustainable Decision Making (PGT)
College: College of Science & Engineering School: School of Geographical & Earth Sciences
Climate change is the biggest global challenge to the foundations of our society and the health of our planet since humans have inhabited the Earth.
It impacts every part of the world and has been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine, which have highlighted how our society, economy, and environment are interconnected.
This course is designed to increase your understanding of the complexities of climate change and the ways in which it impacts the world around us.
It will provide you with the knowledge and skills needed to make sustainable decisions and take action to reduce your carbon footprint at work and home.
In completing this course, you should feel equipped in discussing this pressing global emergency and able to contribute to building a more sustainable future for all.
This course is designed to help you to shift your mindset away from siloed and compartmentalised thinking to a more holistic view of the system.
Weeks 1 & 2: I ntroduction to Systems Thinking, Climate Change & Sustainability
Weeks 3-5: Applications of Systems Thinking to Problem-Solving & Decision-Making
Weeks 6-8: Exploration Case Studies That Show Systems Thinking in Practice
Weeks 9 & 10: Making Systems Change: Intervening, Acting & Measuring
Learners will engage with a ‘lab’ to experiment with different scenarios in an online, open access systems model.
Following familiarisation with using the model, learners will explore a specific scenario and answer a series of questions designed to demonstrate critical thinking about how systems work.
Due in Week 5.
Learners will produce a report that demonstrates the attainment of key concepts learned throughout the course when applied to a community, institutional, organisational or governmental setting.
Due in Week 10.
Learners who choose to submit these assessments will be awarded 10 Academic Credits towards a relevant Master’s degree at the University of Glasgow.
This course is designed and delivered by Jaime Toney and Elaine Heslop .
Jaime is a Professor in Environmental and Climate Science.
As Director of the Centre for Sustainable Solutions, she is enabling people to act toward a just and sustainable future.
Jaime is an expert in the science behind climate change, specifically in understanding how modern climate, environmental and ecosystem changes differ from those the Earth has experienced in the past.
She recognises that collaboration and interdisciplinary approaches are needed at all levels to make a transition to a sustainable future.
Elaine is an Honorary Fellow in the School of Geographical & Earth Sciences.
Her career to date has included roles in the NHS, Civil Service, Deloitte and the University of Oxford.
In 2020 Elaine worked with Professor Toney to establish the Centre for Sustainable Solutions at the University of Glasgow.
Elaine is passionate about enabling individuals and organisations to apply ideas in practice and is using her expertise in bringing about workplace change into the sustainability agenda.
No prior knowledge of climate change or sustainability is required .
This course improved my confidence in my ability to self-motivate , adapt and learn new skills .
A tremendous opportunity.
November 2021 will be a milestone in my learning as the combination of excellent content and teaching on this course combined with live developments provided a rich and enjoyable opportunity to truly upskill .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/technology-and-skills-for-engineering-the-future:
Technology & Skills For Engineering The Future (PGT)
Duration: 10 weeks Credits: 10 Academic Credits (PGT) Delivery: All course content is delivered on Moodle, our virtual learning platform.
College: College of Science & Engineering School: James Watt School of Engineering
The COVID-19 pandemic has presented formidable challenges for the engineering industry, highlighting potential implications for its future growth and long-term sustainability.
To navigate this uncertainty and position themselves for success, engineers must take proactive steps to develop the skills that will be essential in the coming years.
This Upskilling course is designed to help engineering professionals do just that, by providing instruction and training in a wide range of critical areas.
The modern engineer must possess an array of technical, management and communication skills to address the demands of new engineering challenges.
Throughout this course, learners will have the opportunity to expand their knowledge, sharpen their technical abilities, and position themselves to play a key role in shaping the future of engineering.
This course aims to help engineers to become more valuable assets to their organisations, and more capable of driving innovation, efficiency, and progress in the industry.
This course is designed to equip learners with the tools and knowledge to identify gaps in the engineering market and bring innovation to the industry through the creation of new technologies and improvement of existing systems.
Week 1: Programming for Engineering I
Week 2: Programming for Engineering II
Week 3: Embedded Systems
Week 4: Robotics & Autonomous Systems I
Week 5: Robotics & Autonomous Systems II
Week 6: Virtual Reality
Week 7: Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning I
Week 8: Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning II
Week 9: Engineering Project Management
Week 10: Professional & Ethical Standards in the Workplace
Learners will individually write a computer program and develop an object detection system using machine learning techniques.
Due in Week 12.
Learners who choose to submit this assessment will be awarded 10 Academic Credits towards a relevant Undergraduate degree at the University of Glasgow.
This course is designed and delivered a group of academics in the James Watt School of Engineering, and led by Professor Kelum Gamage .
It is suggested that learners on this course are educated to Undergraduate level and have an IELTS equivalent of 6.5.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/mathematicsstatistics/study/postgraduate/onlineprogrammes/cpd/r:
BOOK NOW
11 weeks from 22 September to 5 December 2025 1 week break starting 27 October 2025 Closing date: 12 September 2025 at 12pm Course fee: £834
If you require an invoice, please contact us at maths-stats-analyticsmsc-management@glasgow.ac.uk .
To help avoid delays, we encourage you to use the booking system (card payment required) if possible.
The course introduces learners to data visualisation, data management and programming in the statistical software environment R.
By the end of this course learners will be able to:
Learners require a basic understanding of matrix algebra.
The course is suitable for learners with no prior experience in programming, however, learners with no prior experience in programming should expect a larger time commitment in order to fully benefit from the course.
This course is typically taken in year 1 of the MSc in Data Analytics programme.
This course assumes that you have comparative knowledge and skills covered in the following courses, alternatively, you may wish to consider taking some of the courses listed before attempting this course.
I really enjoyed the course and believe that the content goes into the perfect amount of detail with examples and everything is clearly explained.
I like the videos that show the code in practice.
This will typically be made up of 5 pieces of assessment, including progamming assignments, an individual project.
Please note that the deadline for some assessments may fall outside the teaching weeks of the course.
To take our courses please use an up-to-date version of a standard browser (such as Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Internet Explorer or Microsoft Edge) and a PDF reader (such as Acrobat Reader).
Learning material will be distributed through Moodle.
We encourage all learners to install R and RStudio and we provide detailed installation instructions, but learners can also use free cloud-based services (RStudio Cloud).
Learners need to install Zoom for participating in video conferencing sessions.
We recommend the use of a head set for video conferencing sessions.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/mathematicsstatistics/study/postgraduate/onlineprogrammes/cpd/python:
12 weeks from 22 September to 12 Dec 2025 1 week break starting 27 October 2025 Closing date: 12 September 2025 at 12pm Course fee: £834
The course introduces learners to object-oriented programming, the programming language Python and its use for data programming and analytics.
Learners should have a basic understanding of matrix algebra and statistics.
The course is suitable for learners with no prior experience in programming, however, the course advances at a brisk pace.
Learners with no prior experience in programming should expect a larger time commitment in order to fully benefit from the course.
This course is typically taken in year 2 of the MSc in Data Analytics programme and learners typically have the knowledge and skills covered in our year 1 course.
This will typically be made up of 4 pieces of assessment, including programming assignments and an individual project.
Please note that the deadline for the larger project will be outside of the course weeks to allow flexible working.
We encourage all learners to install Anaconda Python and provide detailled installation instructions, but learners can also use free cloud based services (Google Colab).

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/mathematicsstatistics/study/postgraduate/onlineprogrammes/cpd/uabc:
This course aims to develop the foundations of modern Bayesian statistic and demonstrate how prior distributions are updated to posterior distributions in simple statistical models.
Learners are introduced to advanced stochastic simulation methods such as Markov-Chain Monte Carlo and model comparisons in a Bayesian setting.
Learners should understand probability theory including Bayes' Theorem, random variables, probability functions, joint probability distributions and transformations of random variables.
In addition, Learners should be familiar with statistical inference and linear models.
This course is typically taken in year 2 of the MSc in Data Analytics programme and learners typically have the knowledge and skills covered in our year 1 courses.
This will typically be made up of 4 pieces of assessment, including online quizzes and an individual project.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/understanding-infant-mental-health-development:
Understanding Infant Mental Health & Development (PGT)
Funding: £599 per place (for discount and funding options see 'Fees & Funding' section below) College: College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences School: College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences Graduate School
Course start date Monday 22nd September 2025
Book Now
The COVID-19 pandemic has brought to light the stark reality of health inequalities in the UK and worldwide, highlighting and exemplifying disproportionate negative impact on vulnerable groups.
Infants and their caregivers have been forced to endure prolonged periods of isolation and stress, and the demand for support has surpassed the supply of those capable of providing the necessary level of care.
This course aims to equip learners with the theoretical foundations needed to identify, understand and address a child’s needs, making them better equipped to support children and caregivers during these unprecedented times.
When applied, the knowledge, confidence and competence gained from this course will ultimately enhance the health workforce.
This course is designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of the fascinating world of the infant.
It explores the intricate interplay between developmental and environmental factors that play a crucial role in shaping both the neurotypical and neurodiverse child's potential, focusing on the importance of early relationships and nurture.
The Understanding Infant Mental Health course is one of the 10-credit components of University of Glasgow's online distance learning, part-time degree programme Infant Mental Health (MSc, PgDip, PgCert) .
This is the only Infant Mental Health MSc/PgDip/PgCert programme in the UK, and is developed in alignment with the Association for Infant Mental Health UK’s core competencies.
The programme develops graduates in attributes essential to competent infant mental health practice.
This course is designed to offer a unique and engaging opportunity to expand your knowledge and skills in the field of early child development.
Week 1: Introduction to Infant Mental Health
Week 2: Child Development
Week 3: Understanding Attachment
Week 4: Relationships & Development
Week 5: Infants with Exceptional Health Needs.
Reflective Assessment due.
Week 6: Introducing Neurodiversity
Week 7: Conceptualising & Parenting Neurodiversity
Week 8: Adverse Childhood Experiences: Risk & Resilience
Week 9: Infant Mental Health & Development: A Public Health Perspective
Week 10: The Child’s World
Week 11: Analysis & Response Assessment due
Learners will produce a 500-word reflective response on an infant’s key experiences from their personal or professional experience.
They will explore 1 factor that could influence the infant's attachment pattern, drawing on scientific literature to support their response.
Due in Week 6.
Learners will produce a 7-minute recorded PowerPoint presentation detailing their analysis and response to a case vignette.
They will create a timeline of significant events in an infant’s life and adapt a bio-ecological model to the circumstances presented in the vignette, engaging with scientific literature to support their response.
Due in Week 11.
This course is designed and delivered by Dr Fiona Sim , with the help of a team of clinicians and academics including Professor Helen Minnis , Dr Lucy Thompson , Dr Christine Puckering, Dr Nashwa Matta , Dr Fiona Turner and Dr Jason Lang .
Fiona S is a lecturer at the University of Glasgow.
Her research interests focus on infancy and early childhood, with a focus on early identification of neurodevelopmental difficulties in the preschool years.
Helen is Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at the University of Glasgow and has affiliations with the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience at King’s College London, the Universities of Aalborg and Aarhus, Denmark and with the Gillberg Neuropsychiatry Centre, Gothenburg, Sweden.
She has had a longstanding clinical and research focus on the psychiatric problems of abused and neglected children.
Christine is a clinical and forensic neuropsychologist with more than forty years of experience working with parents and children.
She is particularly interested in early relationships and how these can be supported particularly when families are under stress.
Christine is the Programme Founder for Mellow Parenting, a charity which has developed interventions from pregnancy to pre-school based primarily on attachment theory.
Lucy is a Senior Research Fellow at the University of Aberdeen, and an Honorary Research Fellow at the University of Glasgow.
She is affiliated with the Gillberg Neuropsychiatry Centre at Gothenburg University, Sweden.
Her research interests include infant and maternal mental health, parenting support, and early years screening and support for neurodevelopmental problems.
Nashwa is a neonatologist within the NHSGG&C and an honorary clinical senior lecturer at the University of Glasgow.
She is particularly interested in child development and neurodisability and is committed to improving outcomes for infants.
Nashwa is a member of the NICE guideline committee member and the Scottish Governments Perinatal Infant Mental Health implementation and advisory group.
Fiona T is a Research Associate and Health Psychologist in academic CAMHS at the University of Glasgow.
She leads on qualitative research and process evaluation in the areas of infant mental health, child maltreatment, foster care and neurodiversity.
Jason is a Child Consultant and Adolescent Psychiatrist with an interest in neurodevelopmental conditions.
His research interests include co-occurrence in neurodevelopmental conditions and environmental adaptations for children with such conditions.
This course is designed to equip learners with skills to progress within the following roles and industries:
Course fee: £599 per place.
Alumni, volume-based (group), former UofG SFC Upskilling learner, and NHS discounts may be available (please direct discount enquiries to Keir.Elder@glasgow.ac.uk )
There are a limited number of NES funded places available for early years practitioners who are working across health, education, social care and third sector organisations at the Enhanced and Specialist levels of practice (the Perinatal mental health curricular framework : a framework for maternal and infant mental health provides more detail regarding levels of practice).
You must also fulfil the following eligibility criteria:
If you think you may be eligible for funding and want to be considered for a funded place on the course, please contact psychology@nes.scot.nhs.uk
There are a limited number of fully-funded places available via the Charles Gordon Foundation, on a first come, first served basis to those who fulfil the following eligibility criteria:
If you think you may be eligible for Charles Gordon Foundation funding and want to be considered for a funded place on the course, please complete the Notification of Interest Form.
Notification of Interest

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/introduction-to-business-analytics:
Duration: 10 weeks Credits: 10 Academic Credits (PG) Delivery: All course content is delivered on Moodle, our virtual learning platform.
Fee: £599 per place (See Fees & Funding section below) College: College of Social Sciences School: Adam Smith Business School
Course start-date Monday 29th September 2025
The Introduction to Business Analytics: Empowering Decision-Making Through Data course is designed to introduce learners to the concepts, techniques, and methods used to analyse an organisation’s operational performance and enable them to make informed business decisions using business analytics skills.
The course will discuss the different sources of data and information necessary for analysis, and how to turn an understanding of business analytics into a competitive advantage.
At the end of this course, learners will understand the challenges in sourcing data in today’s internet enabled world, what we can/cannot expect the data/information to tell us, and how we can analyse what we have to the best effect.
Learners will also be introduced to the data visualization techniques to maximise the impact of data on decision-making, presentation, stakeholder engagement and stakeholder buy-in.
The course is designed to give participants knowledge of and experience with current quantitative business analysis techniques.
Participants will also be taught how to implement these quantitative techniques in a business problem-solving and project management environment.
This course introduces best practice for conducting analytical projects, and a baseline capability is established in spreadsheet modelling and quantitative methods.
Upon completion of this course students will be able to:
What you will gain:
The Introduction to Business Analytics course will be one of the 10-credit components of the PgCert in Executive Management (ODL 'stackable' programme) scheduled to launch in January 2026.
This course is designed to give you an introduction to key concepts and fundamental practices for using data to analyse performance.
The course will cover the following subjects:
Students will have the opportunity to produce their own work upon the completion of the course by designing their own business analysis solution.
This assignment will allow learners to test their new learning of the analytics techniques taught throughout this 10-week course.
Assessment
The course provides learners with learning and insights to help them understand the core concepts surrounding business analytics and data analysis, their differences and their interactions, and frameworks for working with them.
The course will also allow opportunities for learners to analyse and evaluate different aspects of business analytics, culminating in the creation of their own Individual Analytics Report.
Learners who choose to submit this assessment and attain a satisfactory grade will be awarded 10 Academic Credits towards a relevant Master's degree at the University of Glasgow.
This course is designed to equip learners with skills that they can carry into the following roles and industries:
Completion of this course can realise potential for:
Alumni, volume-based (group) and former UofG SFC Upskilling learner discounts are available (please direct discount enquiries to Keir.Elder@glasgow.ac.uk )

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/projectmanagement:
Fee: £599 per place (See Fees & Funding section below) College: College of Social Sciences School: Adam Smith Business School
Course start date Monday 29th September 2025
Project management is an essential business tool that is being adopted worldwide.
It is also a growing and highly sought-after profession, with the Project Management Institute estimating it to have grown by $6.61 trillion by the end of 2020.
In this Microcredential course, you will gain a deep understanding of practical project management skills using real-world case studies.
You will examine the entire project lifecycle, from feasibility to closure, and explore important topics such as managing people, setting priorities, working to tight deadlines, developing schedules and managing risks.
This course stands out from other Project Management courses because it provides learners with a toolkit of practical and transferable tools, techniques, and activities that can be immediately applied in the workplace.
It also includes training on Gantt charting with an open-source application called Gantt Project.
The Project Management course will be one of the 10-credit components of the PgCert in Executive Management (ODL 'stackable' programme) scheduled to launch in January 2026.
This course explores the entire project lifecycle and is designed provide you with the necessary skills manage projects successfully.
By the end of this course, you will have a better understanding of the Project Manager’s role in balancing the time, scope, and budget of a project, and in successfully delivering all project management artefacts.
Like the course itself, this assessment is practical and involves developing a project plan from a case study.
This activity mirrors the processes undertaken by a project manager in the workplace.
By the end of the course, learners will have developed a comprehensive personal project management toolkit to refer to in current and future roles.
Due around 2 weeks after the course finishes.
Learners will be asked to download the following software:
After citing this course on my CV and applying for new jobs, I recieved two interview invitations right away and I quickly accepted a job offer with better pay at an amazing company !
I took this course to gain specific Project Management skills and academic credentials, as I frequently work on projects at work unofficially, but knew the only way to process into a managerial role was to enhance my CV with an official qualification.
Since completing this course, I have managed to move from working in a large HR team to working largely independently with increased responsibility .
I utilise my new skills in my everyday working life.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/microcredentials/esg-environmental-social-and-governance-leadership:
Duration: 6 weeks Credits: 10 Academic Credits (PG) Delivery: All course content is delivered on Moodle, our virtual learning platform.
Funding: £599 per place (See Fees & Funding section below) College: College of Social Sciences School: Adam Smith Business School
Course start date: Monday 29th September 2025
This course aims to introduce recent graduates and early career professionals in the financial services and financial technology sectors to the areas of ESG policy and compliance, data and analysis requirements, and organisational and strategic opportunities.
By focussing on ESG leadership, the course aims to equip learners with the practical knowledge, skills and capabilities to evaluate the strategic positioning of their organisation and to develop an ESG plan for their organisation.
This course takes a practical-application approach to Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) integration into organizational practice.
It introduces regulatory compliance, supply chain auditing, ESG data and analytics, and leadership and innovation practices as they relate to financial services, FinTechs, and among the relevant business ecosystems that Financial Services and FinTechs serve and support.
A key feature is in combining regulatory and compliance perspectives, which typically have annual reporting cycles, with the longer-term perspectives on value, strategic development, and leadership of organisations.
In supporting professional education, learners will develop and ESG plan for their organisation and consider how this plan can be implemented and reviewed.
This course is designed to prepare you for emerging careers in sustainability while enhancing your leadership capabilities to drive ESG transformation.
You’ll develop the strategic insight and practical tools needed to embed ESG into core business decision-making, positioning it not just as a compliance requirement, but as a source of long-term competitive advantage.
A limited number of discounted places (typically offering 20% reduction in fees) are available for this course.
These include (but are not necessarily limited to) discounts for alumni, group bookings, and former UofG SFC Upskilling learners.
Discounted places are awarded to eligible applicants on a first come, first served basis.
For any discount-related enquiries, please contact Keir.Elder@glasgow.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/studentservices:
Inspiring students to identify their career goals and achieve their full personal, academic and professional potential.
Inspiring students and staff to flourish.
Supporting students to manage their mental health and build strategies to help them complete their course of study.
Empowering students and staff with disabilities, learning difficulties and medical conditions, to experience in full what the University has to offer.
Supporting international students and their families to aid welfare and enhance students' experience while at Glasgow.
Enhancing the student experience, providing support and access to services throughout the student journey from registration to graduation and beyond.
Enhancing the student experience and supporting students living in university accommodation by delivering an out of hours listening and signposting service.
Supporting students to improve support and wellbeing across the university through a confidential, peer-led listening service.
Supporting students to be successful learners, by providing first line support as a listening ear, encouraging and helping students to resolve issues and difficulties.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/leads:
LEADS has been restructured into two teams, and this page will soon be removed.
If you arrived here via a link in a course handbook, Moodle page, UofG webpage etc., please let the owner know that they should now update their materials to reflect the new links.
The student-facing half of the LEADS team is now Student Learning Development (SLD) .
For queries about SLD pages, contact scott.ramsay.2@glasgow.ac.uk
The staff-facing half of the LEADS team is now Academic & Digital Development (ADD) .
For queries about ADD pages, contact sarah.honeychurch@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/studentlisteners:
You can expect an empathetic and non-judgmental space.
Our trained Student Listeners will listen without advising or directing you.
Check out our video for an explanation of what we do.
Book a session to connect with us.
If your symptoms are becoming unmanageable and significantly impacting your daily life, we recommend seeking specialised support through the university’s Counselling & Wellbeing Services or your GP.
Learn more about:
- the ways in which your volunteering contribution can be recognised on your Transcript
- the awards you can become eligible for when you volunteer at University
- the employability benefits you gain from volunteering
Email: studentlisteners@glasgow.ac.uk
You can also stay updated by following us on Instagram .
Tue, 01 Oct 2024 13:34:00 BST
Peer Wellbeing Support is now Student Listeners.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/sset/transcripts:
The Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) details both your academic and extracurricular accomplishments.
It replaces our traditional degree transcript and offers a much more rounded perspective on how you have used your time at Glasgow, and better supports you in demonstrating your potential to employers.
Registered students can produce their own transcripts using their MyCampus Student Center.
Former students please see information provided below.
Our transcripts provide an overview of your studies at The University of Glasgow.
Registered students can produce their own transcripts using their MyCampus Student Center.
Please note that your transcript details your entire academic career at the University of Glasgow and we cannot omit or censor any information.
We do not sign transcripts by hand as there is a printed signature provided on every transcript.
Standard Information The following information is included as standard on all of our transcripts.
Grade point average, or GPA is not included on your transcript.
We do not provide any grade equivalency documents for other countries or Universities.
Our transcripts include your SCQF (Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework) and ECTS (European Credit Transfer System) credits.
Please note we are also unable to add your class ranking to your transcript.
Troubleshooting Self Service Issues Our self service documents open in a new window or tab.
If you are trying to generate your own documents and nothing happens, you may need to disable your pop-up blocker or allow pop-ups for University of Glasgow pages.
If you have disabled your pop-up blocker and you are still having issues generating your document you may need to clear your browser cache.
World Education Services The University of Glasgow and World Education Services (WES) have an established process through which digital copies of transcripts can be uploaded to WES directly using their secure file transfer protocol system.
A WES Academic Records Request form is not required.
If you require your transcript to be sent to WES please be sure to specifically state this in the additional information section of your application form and include your WES reference number.
Apply Online Applications should be submitted on the UofG Helpdesk.
If you require us to send a copy of your transcript to another institution or an employer please note the relevant details in the additional information section of your application form.
Please note that documents will be produced within 15 working days.
Submit a Transcript (HEAR) Application Form
Registered students can produce their own transcripts using their MyCampus Student Center.
We recommend viewing your transcript online to ensure the validity of what is on your record before requesting a stamped hard copy.
Academic Information If academic information is missing or incorrect on your transcript please contact your School or College office, the Student Services Enquiry Team cannot update your transcript for you.
Examination results are added after programme boards meet, the timeline for this varies so please check with your School or College office.
Extracurricular Information If extracurricular information is missing from your transcript (elected council member, club president etc) please contact the Students' Representative Council (SRC) in the first instance for guidance.
The University of Glasgow and World Education Services (WES) have an established process through which digital copies of transcripts can be uploaded to WES directly using their secure file transfer protocol system.
Apply Online Please see the relevant registered or former students sections above and below for instructions on how to apply for this service.
Please note that we do not produce or send copies of degree parchments, for this you will need to consult a Notary Public or the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Please read the information provided on the graduation webpages if you have lost or damaged your original degree parchment and require a replacement.
Transcripts for Qualifications Completed Prior to 1989 Unfortunately we cannot issue any transcripts for courses completed prior to 1989.
In place of a transcript we can offer a Certifying Letter which confirms your award and graduation date.
Transcripts for Qualifications Completed between 1989 and 2011 Modular teaching and grading were introduced at the University of Glasgow from 1989, and the standardised Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) transcript format was introduced from 2011.
This this means that for alumni who graduated between 1989 and 2011, depending on the records kept for each individual course, we unfortunately may not be able to produce a transcript.
In this case we will offer a Certificate of Student Status instead.
Where we can produce a transcript, it may not include a detailed list of courses and grades, and may instead include partial information or a summary of the overall grades and or credits achieved for each year.
Bachelor of Education or Postgraduate Certificate in Education Transcripts Prior to 1999 If you studied a BEd or PGCE at Notre Dame College of Education, Craiglockhart College of Education or St Andrews College (Bearsden) prior to 1999 then you will need to contact the school of education directly to request a transcript.
You can e-mail them at:
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) Transcripts Prior to 1996 Please note that some transcripts for students who studied an MBChB with the Medical School prior to 1996 (but after 1989) may need to be produced by the Medical School Library.
Please submit your transcript request to student services using the link below.
We will quickly assess your application, and if we are unable to produce a transcript for you we will refer you to the Medical School Library.
Please note that this may increase the length of time it takes to complete your request as the Medical School have a turn around time of 7 working days to produce transcripts.
Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) Transcripts Prior to 1996 Please note that we may not always be able to produce transcripts for students who studied a BDS with the Dental School prior to 1996 (but after 1989) Please submit your transcript request to student services using the link below.
We will quickly assess your application, and if we are unable to produce a transcript for you we will provide you with a Certificate of Student Status instead.
This will confirm your dates of study and graduation date.
Submit a Transcript (HEAR) Application Form
The University of Glasgow does not subscribe to external document repository services, including Gradintel and Digitary.
However, we can e-mail your documents directly to a 3rd party, including other Universities, employers or verification agencies at your request.
If you would like us to do this, please provide the 3rd party e-mail address you would like us to send your documents to when you make your document application.
Note that documents e-mailed directly from the University of Glasgow will be sent from the following unmonitored e-mail address: mycampushelp@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/subjects/informationstudies/accreditations:
MSc in Information  Management and Preservation graduates will be eligible to be accredited by both the Archives & Records Association and CILIP (Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals), providing valuable professional recognition in both the archive and library fields.
We are the only Museum Studies programme in the UK accredited by CILIP , the Library and Information Association.
We are members of
This enables us to remain at the forefront of upcoming research opportunities and to support our students and academics to access the best professional development programmes.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/global-history-of-sex-and-gender:
Free online course
Discover how a focus on gender and sexuality transforms our understanding of modern, global history.
The course is hosted on an external learning platform, Futurelearn.
Registration for this course is free, with free time-limited 
                access to content: charges may apply for additional features and 
                extended study.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/history-of-royal-fashion:
Explore how British royalty have influenced fashion over the last 500 years, from the Tudors to the Windsors.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/an-introduction-to-playwriting:
This course will provide an accessible and illuminating introduction to key playwriting skills.
The course is taught by a leading professional playwright and presented in association with Playwrights’ Studio, Scotland; the only arts organisation in the UK exclusively dedicated to the artistic development of writers for live performance.
The course will provide an ideal pathway towards further study, including the Playwriting and Dramaturgy MLitt offered by University of Glasgow.
By the end of the course, you‘ll be able to...
Registration is free.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/antiquities-trafficking-art-crime:
Delve into the seedy underbelly of the art world, looking at smuggling, theft, fakes, and fraud, with this free online course.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/applied-ai-for-engineers--scientists-foundations:
Arm Scientists and Engineers with AI Techniques.
Use AI for engineering/scientific optimization and machine learning without complex programming.
This specialisation is designed for engineering and general science students to learn and apply AI techniques most effectively and efficiently.
Different from specializations for computer science students, the most popular and effective AI algorithms that are used by engineers and scientists are carefully selected and explained understandably.
A particular emphasis is the use of these algorithms for real-world engineering and science problems.
Through MATLAB toolboxes, students can bypass intricate programming to use these techniques and achieve superior results.
After taking this specialization, the students can understand the concepts and working principles of key techniques in evolutionary computation and machine learning, and use them fluently in optimization and data analysis tasks in engineering and science practice.
This specialisation is the result of the research program of AI for science and engineering by University of Glasgow (an international top 100 university), investigating the effective and efficient way of teaching AI for non-computer science/mathematics-focused students.
The course introduction video is here .
Applied Learning Project
The assignments ask students to solve (simplified) real-world scientific and engineering problems, including optimization and machine learning, using AI techniques.
The learners will analyze the problems and apply the AI knowledge that was taught with the support of the MATLAB platform and toolboxes.
In partnership with MathWorks, enrolled students have access to MATLAB for the duration of the course.
Registration is free.
The course is hosted on an external learning platform, Coursera.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/basic-first-aid:
Get an introduction to basic first aid, including how to help someone who is choking, with this first aid course.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/becoming-a-dentist:
Decide if a dentistry career is right for you.
Explore everything from the university application process to daily dentist duties.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/biomedical-visualisation:
Visualisation is a rapidly progressive specialty in academia, research and industry, and becoming the future of science.
With the advancement of digital technologies and their applications, biomedical visualisation is an evolving and popular field.
With new techniques and technologies to image, process and analyse data related to the human body, and its biological processes, it is at the forefront of the digital revolution.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/cancer-in-the-21st-century:
Discover how genetics is revolutionising the detection and treatment of the different types of cancer.
Where Have We Come From?
The 'Normal' Cell And Beyond
Where Are We Now?
Cancer Treatment And Management: From Traditional To Precision Medicine
Where are We Going?
The Genomic Revolution

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/career-management-early-career-academic:
Explore different career options, learn what you want out of a career and understand how to implement good career decisions.
Making career plans
Exploring career options
Careers in higher education
Job search and application process

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/climate-and-energy-an-interdisciplinary-perspectiv:
Explore climate change issues from an interdisciplinary perspective to find innovative solutions for a better future.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/communicating-climate-change-for-effective-climate:
Develop your climate communication skills as you learn the techniques to empower people to take urgently-needed climate action.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/computational-thinking-with-javascript:
Unlock the Thinking Behind Computing.
Develop key underpinning skills to give you insight into the world of computing and to harness its potential.
This Specialization is intended for those with minimal under-the-hood experience of working with computing who want to take the first steps towards a deep understanding of principles and practice of how to solve problems with software technology.
Learners will use JavaScript within a web-based framework to generate graphics and analyse data, bringing these together in interactive web applications.
Learners will acquire specific self-directed learning skills, enabling them to tackle new problem domains and technologies throughout their work and life.
The course uses a hands-on approach with learning driven by a range of programming exercises, from small, scaffolded coding practice up to open-ended programming projects of the learner's choice.The context is JavaScript programming, first within a hosted beginner-friendly environment within the Coursera platform, progressing to industry-level development tools appropriate for creating interactive web-based applications.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/impact-housing-displacement-gentrification:
This course provides an introduction to gentrification and to the cultural impacts of housing displacement for people in cities and neighbourhoods across the world.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/data-driven-leadership-skills:
Learn how leadership is explicitly dealing with the fourth industrial revolution: the age of data and digital technology.
By the end of the course, you’ll be able to…
Critically evaluate, with particular reference to digital data, traditional leadership models
Distinguish between agile and efficient leadership structures and their relationship to data
Analyse the role of data, volume, quality, and timeliness, in decision making
Analyse and assess leadership narratives and whether they help or hinder modern leaders in a digital age
Describe and evaluate the role of collective decision making and agile teams
This Specialization has a capstone assignment requiring you to apply the knowledge and skills you have learned to complete and pass one of three available assignments that focus on core concepts explored in this Specialization.
Assignments options include: (1) The Leadership Narrative, (2) Agile Leadership, or (3) Data-Driven Leaders.
The course is hosted on an external learning platform, Coursera

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/diversity-and-inclusion-in-education:
Student diversity is becoming the rule rather than the exception in education systems across the world.
Students bring to classroom different characteristics such as ability and disability, socio-economic background, race, ethnicity, and cultural background, beliefs and religion, and gender characteristics.
The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal 4 aims to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all (United Nations, 2015).

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/dna-genetics--genomics-understanding-their-importa:
Enhance your understanding of the role genetics plays in shaping our health, and how this insight can help us treat disease.
Genetic disorders, including cancer, affect all of us in one way or another, whether directly or indirectly.
That’s why it’s important to understand how they develop, how they are diagnosed, and the treatments available.
This ExpertTrack from the University of Glasgow will introduce you to the fundamentals of genomic and cancer science, as well as the connection between genetics and health.
By the end of the ExpertTrack, you’ll be able to...
The course is hosted on an external learning platform, Futurelearn.
One Health & Infectious Disease

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/early-modern-scottish-palaeography-reading-scotlan:
Travel back in time through Scottish history by examining early modern Scottish handwriting.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/ecopedagogy-for-beginners-putting-climate-change-e:
Explore practical approaches to teaching sustainability and taking effective climate action in school settings.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/end-of-life-care-challenges-and-innovation:
Explore dying and palliative care practice around the world and evaluate new trends and ideas surrounding end of life care issues.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/functional-programming-in-haskell-supercharge-your:
Get an introduction to Haskell, the increasingly popular functional programming language, with this University of Glasgow course.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/gender-based-violence-responding-to-intimate-partn:
Expand your understanding of intimate partner violence and abuse (IPVA) and learn how to recognise and support victims of abuse.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/generative-ai-for-healthcare-students-and-professi:
Explore real world clinical case studies of AI.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/generative-ai-in-education:
Discover the foundations of generative AI in our dynamic course.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/generative-pre-trained-transformers-pgts:
Discover GPT's transformative impact on human-computer interaction.
Delve into natural language processing, Transformer mechanics, and ethical considerations.
Hands-on labs and quizzes included.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/getting-started-with-teaching-data-science-in-scho:
Learn the basics of data science and how to introduce data science in the classroom.
Intended learning outcomes

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/history-of-slavery-in-the-british-caribbean:
Explore the history and legacy of British colonial slavery and oppression in the Caribbean through historical slave accounts.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/informed-clinical-decision-making-using-deep-learn:
Apply Deep Learning in Electronic Health Records.
Understand the road path from data mining of clinical databases to clinical decision support systems
This specialisation is for learners with experience in programming that are interested in expanding their skills in applying deep learning in Electronic Health Records and with a focus on how to translate their models into Clinical Decision Support Systems.
The main areas that would explore are:
Data mining of Clinical Databases: Ethics, MIMIC III database, International Classification of Disease System and definition of common clinical outcomes.
Deep learning in Electronic Health Records: From descriptive analytics to predictive analytics
Explainable deep learning models for healthcare applications: What it is and why it is needed
Clinical Decision Support Systems: Generalisation, bias, ‘fairness’, clinical usefulness and privacy of artificial intelligence algorithms.
Learners have the opportunity to choose and undertake an exercise based on MIMIC-III extracted datasets that combines knowledge from:
Data mining of Clinical Databases to query the MIMIC database
Deep learning in Electronic Health Records to pre-process EHR and build deep learning models
Explainable deep learning models for healthcare to explain the models decision
Learners can choose from:
Permutation feature importance on the MIMIC critical care database
The technique is applied both on logistic regression and on an LSTM model.
The explanations derived are global explanations of the model.
2.
LIME on the MIMIC critical care database
The technique is applied on both logistic regression and an LSTM model.
The explanations derived are local explanations of the model.
Grad-CAM on the MIMIC critical care database
GradCam is implemented and applied on an LSTM model that predicts mortality.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/interpreting-for-refugees-contexts-practices-and-e:
Learn skills to meet the challenges of interpreting for refugees and share your experiences with other interpreters in the sector.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/introduction-to-breastfeeding-for-medical-students:
This short module is designed to support first year medical students to understand the importance of breastfeeding in the UK.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/introduction-to-climate-justice-and-equity:
Learn how climate equity and justice can help the most vulnerable people address the effects of climate change.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/introduction-to-critical-care-medicine:
Learn how to handle complex issues faced in Critical Care Units when other options on the ward have been exhausted.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/introduction-to-teaching-sustainability-and-climat:
Discover the role that learning for sustainability and climate action has to play in tackling the climate crisis.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/mba-essentials:
Learners will delve into the vital components of the MBA experience, gaining essential knowledge, fostering the right attitude, and preparing for the challenges that lie ahead.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/mindfulness-a-focus-on-adolescents:
Get a hands-on introduction to mindfulness and its benefits.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/multilingual-learning-for-a-globalised-world:
This free online course will explore multilingual education and how it can impact and improve education and even wider society.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/plurilingual-classrooms-in-action:
Develop your understanding of learning and teaching languages to explore the transformative role of languages in education.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd-in-the-global-:
Learn how to identify, assess the risk for, prevent and treat PTSD in a range of contexts.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/research-impact-making-a-difference:
Help your work to benefit society and the economy.
Learn what research impact is and how to create it.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/robert-burns-poems-songs-and-legacy:
Dig deeper into the life and works of Robert Burns, with this free University of Glasgow course.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/safeguarding-in-collaborative-research-and-interna:
Learn fundamental safeguarding principles and how to adapt them to suit whatever research contexts you may encounter.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/so-you-want-to-study-life-science:
Explore the exciting subjects within life sciences and the rewarding careers that studying life sciences at university lead to.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/strategic-business-leadership:
Lead Your Business with Strategic Vision.
Define strategic leadership and assess the mindset, skills, and frameworks needed to lead in complexity.
Learn to identify disruption, uncover opportunity and innovation opportunities, and lead with agility in uncertain markets.
Drive digital transformation by aligning strategy, innovation, and leadership across the enterprise.
In a world defined by rapid change and constant disruption, strategic leadership is more essential than ever.
The Strategic Business Leadership Specialisation is a three-course journey designed to equip current and aspiring leaders with the mindset, tools, and frameworks needed to navigate uncertainty, shape the future, and drive meaningful transformation across their organizations.
You’ll begin by defining what strategic business leadership truly means—exploring its objectives, key activities, and success metrics.
In Course 2, you’ll build upon these skills by learning how to identify and seize opportunities in times of market disruption, moving beyond traditional forecasting and market research to uncover new sources of competitive advantage.
Finally, you’ll explore how to lead corporate-wide digital transformation, addressing organizational blockages, unlocking hidden potential, and enabling horizontal collaboration and innovation at scale.
Whether you're a team leader, executive, or entrepreneur, this Specialisation will help you think more strategically, act more decisively, and lead more effectively.
Each course can be taken on its own, but the full learning experience is designed to build progressively—so we encourage you to start at the beginning and take the full journey with us.
Tasks and assignments within this Specialisation test both a learner's retention of the materials through practice and graded quizzes of multiple choice style questions.
In addition to this, scenarios are created that encourage learners to envision themselves as business leaders and apply their new learning to a real world style scenario through discussion.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/study-medicine-applying-for-medical-school-and-bec:
On this course, you’ll explore the process of becoming a doctor and learn what to expect from your time at medical school and beyond.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/young-peoples-mental-wellbeing-post-covid:
Reflect on how the COVID pandemic may have impacted young people’s mental wellbeing and explore ways to support them.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/tackling-climate-change-sustainable-business-model:
Discover how circular economies and business models enable sustainability and help respond to the climate emergency.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/tesol-strategies-supporting-esl-students-in-mainst:
Learn the basic principles, considerations and strategies for cultivating a rich language-learning environment
With increased migration and refugee flows, most teachers are encountering increasingly diverse students in their mainstream classrooms.
This course is designed for teachers at all levels, working with language learners across the curriculum.
This course will give you new insight into the different aspects of language, the language learning process and the demands of different curricular areas.
It will enable you to enrich your daily practice to ensure the needs of the language learners are met.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/the-life-and-afterlife-of-mary-queen-of-scots:
Explore the 16th century life of Mary Queen of Scots, and her place in cultural history in the centuries that followed.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/the-right-to-education-breaking-down-the-barriers:
How can we support those who are marginalised and excluded from education?
Does education for all, mean all?
Number 4 on the the UN’s list of global universal sustainable development goals (SDG) is “Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning”.
Despite this, 59 million primary-school age children were out of school in 2013.
So, does education for all, really mean all?
What are the barriers to participating in education?
How do you include “all” in the classroom?
This online course will answer these and other questions, and help you join the movement to get children the world over into education.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/the-scottish-highland-clans-origins-decline-and-tr:
Discover the important history of the Highland clans

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/understanding-and-measuring-the-earths-energy-imba:
Learn how greenhouse gases are pushing the Earth out of balance, and why measuring the imbalance could prove crucial.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/understanding-suicide-and-suicide-prevention:
Develop an understanding of suicide in a global context.
Learn about suicide risk factors and ways to help prevent it.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/uniting-for-a-sustainable-future-an-introduction-t:
How do we create a sustainable future?
Discover the path to global sustainability and how to take sustainable steps in your life.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/using-health-technology-assessment-in-support-of-u:
Explore the key concepts of health economics and how health technology assessment aids decision-making in healthcare.
On this ExpertTrack, you’ll explore the theory of health economics to understand how scarcity and resources affect decision-making.
Healthcare resources are finite in every setting and, irrespective of the financing and organisation of a country’s healthcare system, decisions have to be made fairly.
You’ll also discover the use of health technology assessment (HTA) as one of the tools for priority setting.
This knowledge will help you start thinking like a health economist and how we can ensure decisions are based on evidence and the best outcomes.
Health Economics & Health Technology Assessment
Global Mental Health (online)

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/free-online-courses/working-supportively-with-refugees-principles-skil:
Learn how the principles of psychological well-being, communication and interpretation can benefit your work with refugees

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/informationforstudents:
How to enrol
Funding
Transfers, cancellations, withdrawals and refunds
Term dates
Contact
Information for students with disabilities
Student feedback/Staff student representative group
Studying for credits and Certificates and Diplomas of Higher Education
Language Course Information
Students taking credit-bearing courses will be provided with a student card which will grant access to the Library.
Find out more about the UoG library
Students taking courses for credit can apply for a UoG Short Course student gym membership.
Students taking non-credit-bearing courses can apply for a community membership.
Find out more about our gym
Please see the following link for our Terms and Conditions
The University of Glasgow (the University) will be what’s known as the ‘Data Controller’ of your personal data processed in order to facilitate, administer and manage your time as a student with the University.
This Privacy Notice will explain how the University will process your personal data.
Changes to this notice
The University may update this notice at any time and may also provide you with furthermore detailed notices on specific occasions where we collect and process personal data about you.
These additional privacy notices are supplemental to this main Privacy Notice.
You should check this Notice regularly to be aware of any changes.
However, where any change affects your rights and interests, we will bring this to your attention and clearly explain what this means for you.
Your personal data and why we need it
As a student of the University, you will have a core “student record”, this will be formed by the information provided by you as part of your application, during the registration process and other information added throughout your student life.
The University will collect and process both personal data [i] and special category data [ii] including but not limited to those listed below.
Processing of special category data will only be undertaken in very limited circumstances and will be to meet a legal obligation or more usually, with your explicit consent in advance.
Such data is defined as:
Why we process your personal data
Generally, we process your personal data in order to facilitate, administer, support and manage your time as a student with the University, this includes but is not limited to
Legal basis for processing your personal data
We must have a legal basis for the processing of all personal and special categories data.
An explanation of the legal bases, as defined in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), that may be relied upon by the University are listed below:
Article 6(1)(a) Consent – in certain instances the University will only process certain data if you consent e.g.
on registration you may agree and provide details of additional support needs or certain “special categories” of data in order to use the services of the University’s Disability Service.
Article 6 (1)(b) necessary for the performance of a contract –the University will process your data to enable it to meet its commitments to you as outlined in the Student Contract e.g.
those relating to teaching and assessment.
Article 6 (1)(c) necessary to comply with a legal obligation – the University has legal obligations to provide your personal data to others e.g.
Electoral registration officers.
Article 6 (1)(d) necessary to protect the vital interests of yourself or another – in extreme circumstances the University may have to release information to protect your interests or the interests of others e.g.
in medical emergencies.
Article 6 (1)(e) necessary for the performance of a task carried in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority – the University is an educational establishment and in particular its educational activity is conducted in a public interest (including your interest and the interest of others).
Where Article 6(1)(f) is used, the “legitimate interest” is generally the interest of the University (or third party) in providing or supporting the provision of higher education to its students.
Article 22(2)(a) automated decision making necessary for performance of a contract – the University will sometimes automate decisions relating to services it is providing to you.
Article 9(2)(a) processing “special categories” of data where you have given consent – the University will process certain sensitive data about you with your consent.
Article 9(2)(g) processing “special categories” of data where necessary for reasons of substantial public interest.
Article 9(2)(f) processing “special categories” of data in connection with legal claims.
It is recognised that some of the above grounds may overlap and that the University may rely on multiple grounds when justifying its lawful basis for processing.
Who we share it with and why
Upon booking a course your data will be collected by Accessplanit, which is third party online book and pay, training management system.
To find out more about how your data is held on the Accesplanit platform please see the Accessplanit software security document .
In order to process your payment, some deatils will also be shared with the e-commerce payment system, Opaya.
There may be other instances that require the University to share your personal data with third parties, including
Automated individual decision making, including profiling
This is where we may make decisions automatically about you without human intervention.
The University will rarely do this, but where it does it will be detailed in supplementary privacy notices .
Information sources
The University will obtain your personal data directly from you through your application and the registration process, during your time with the University and from third parties such as UCAS, funding bodies (e.g.
the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) or similar), sponsors, partner institutions and Government departments.
Transferring personal data outwith the European Economic Area (EEA)
There may be instances where to achieve the purposes for which we are processing your personal data we may need to share your personal data with other organisations based outwith the EEA, for instance if you are part of the Go Abroad Programme or studying at the University on a joint/collaborative programme with an international partner or if you apply via an international agent.
When it is necessary to share your data with organisations outside of the EEA, we will ensure that there are appropriate safeguards in place.
Keeping your personal data safe
The University has a series of technical and organisational measures in place to ensure that your personal data is protected and safeguarded.
Please see the University’s Information Security webpages for more information.
Graduation Ceremonies
The University considers Graduation ceremonies to be public events and audio and visual images of ceremonies will be made available online (live streaming will be available only during the ceremonies).
Names of graduands, including those graduating in absentia will be published in the graduation programme.
Lists are also published in newspapers and there will be an opportunity to choose to be included when you enrol for your graduation.
General Council
All graduates of the University are members of the General Council , the graduate and academic body of the University.
The University has a statutory obligation to retain a list of General Council members, to conduct General Council elections and to inform members about General Council activities.
Alumni
The University’s Development and Alumni Office process and stores personal information relating to alumni and students.
Alumni include graduates, former students receiving non-graduating qualifications and former exchange students.
The Development and Alumni Office has produced its own Privacy Notice in relation to these activities.
CCTV
The University operates CCTV systems throughout its campuses for the purposes of public safety and the prevention and detection of crime.
The University’s CCTV Policy will be published online.
Retention
Your personal data will only be held by the University for as long as is necessary for the purposes described in this Notice.
After completion of studies (or cessation of studies), please note that the University will be required to retain some data to meet requirements to keep records for particular periods in accordance with applicable law.
Minimal data will also be retained permanently in order to ensure a record of your educational achievements and qualifications is retained.
Your rights*
Under data protection legislation and as a student of the University, you have a number of rights including the right to:
* Please note that the ability to exercise these rights will vary and depend on the legal basis on which the processing is being carried out.
Please see the University’s webpages for further information on your rights as a data subject
If you wish to exercise any of these rights, please contact dp@gla.ac.uk .
If you are not satisfied with our response or believe we are not processing your personal data in accordance with the law, you can complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) https://ico.org.uk/
For further information
If you are unsure about anything within the Privacy Notice, then please contact the University’s Data Protection Officer at dataprotectionofficer@glasgow.ac.uk
For further information on data protection, please see the University’s webpages and the Information Commissioner’s Office website
[i] Personal data is defined as any information relating to an identified or identifiable individual, who can identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that individual.
[ii] Processing of special category data is defined as the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying an individual, data relating to an individual’s sex life or sexual orientation.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/coursecosts:
You can find the cost of your course in the course booking page

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/readinglists:
Below is a list of suggested reading material for some of our courses.
If your course is not listed here, any books or articles that are required for your studies will be advised by your tutor in class.
Please note: there is no requirement to purchase any reading material before your class.
The suggested textbooks and/or articles are simply an indication of what you may cover as part of your course and may change.
Forensic Psychology: an introduction - Davis, T.
(2021) Psychology : Fact and Fiction.
Red Globe Press.
Health Psychology - Ogden, J.
(2019).
Health psychology, 6e.
McGraw-Hill Education.
What makes us who we are?
The Nature Vs.
Nurture Debate- Reading list available at: https://rl.talis.com/3/glasgow/lists/F86EBC0A-8DFD-C331-D3A4-2AD07AC62B5E.html?lang=en-US
Psychology: an introduction -Schacter, Gilbert, Wegner & Hood (2020).
Psychology (3rd European edition)
Introduction to social psychology- Stagnor, C.
Principles of Social Psychology.
Open source textbook available from: https://opentextbc.ca/socialpsychology/

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/importantinformationononlinelearning:
All our courses will be delivered online using Zoom and/or Moodle, the University’s virtual learning environment.
Most courses will be taught synchronously, i.e.
our tutors will try to replicate face-to-face learning as much as possible through live sessions on Zoom.
For synchronous courses, sessions will usually run for the set class time on the same day every week.
This will mean live sessions of typically 2 hours on Zoom, with comfort breaks built in.
Some tutors may post pre-recorded materials on Moodle that students can access before/after live sessions, thereby reducing the time of live synchronous sessions.
A small set of courses will be asynchronous, i.e.
students will access their course materials through Moodle only at the time of their choosing, with no live Zoom sessions scheduled.
Asynchronous courses have no set time/day for that reason.
Please see the technical requirements below to ensure you have everything you need for online study:
https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/it/forstudents/remotestudy/

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/contact:
You can email us at lifelonglearning@glasgow.ac.uk
Our telephone lines are also open from 9.30am-1.00pm and 2.00-4.00pm.
Monday to Friday.
0141 330 1835
Alternatively, you can ask our chatbot, Gloria any general questions by clicking the red speech bubble in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/lang:
View all language courses
Discover a new language or improve your existing language skills in a practical and interactive environment.
Whether for business or pleasure, learn to communicate effectively, enjoy an authentic learning experience and expand your cultural knowledge.
Choose from the convenient option of studying from your home with our online option or come over to our beautiful campus for in person classes.
Our classes are relaxed and collaborative, with plenty of exposure to the language and many opportunities to practise and learn with your peers.
*Not all languages are offered at all levels
Feeling confident ahead of moving to Germany now.
Going from speaking next to no German to this is a huge achievement!
German beginners A1 student
The course delivered the basic knowledge of Japanese language face to face and built up my confidence to speak a new language.
Japanese beginners A1 student
Course assessment is optional but on successful completion you will obtain 10 credits at Level 1 (SCQF 7) for foreign and English language courses or 5 credits for British Sign Language courses.
Language classes are interactive and collaborative, with plenty of exposure to the language and many opportunities to practise and learn with your peers.
You will also have access to Moodle, the University’s virtual learning environment, where you will find additional activities for you to practise what you have learnt in class and to extend your knowledge.
View all language courses
All our courses are now aligned to the Common European Framework for Languages .
For more information on our each of our langauges please refer to the information below.
If there are available dates for your chosen course, you can book and pay online today.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/assessmentinformation:
All short courses which carry University credit include some form of assessment by coursework - this may take a variety of forms, including essays, presentations, in-class tests or practical assessments.
None of our courses use formal examinations to assess students.
The number of assessments in a short course is proportionate to the volume of University credit a course carries.
For example, a 5- credit course generally involves one piece of assessment, a 10 -credit course two pieces of assessment and a 20- credit course three pieces of assessment.
Students are graded using the University's Code of Assessment, which sets out the possible outcomes (grades) in relation to how well you have met the learning outcomes being assessed.
This grading scheme covers 8 grades, from A to H, and within each grade there are a number of bands (a 22-point scale in total).
Students on a short course which carries University credit have the option to opt out of assessment, if they are not interested in obtaining University credit and are studying purely for enjoyment.
Students who opt out of assessment for their course will still have the course recorded on their Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR), and their grade will be noted as 'Audit Only' (AU).

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/langbsl:
Course assessment is optional but on successful completion you will obtain 5 credits at SCQF level 7.
This course is recommended for absolute beginners who have had very little or no contact with British Sign Language before.
Course aims:
This course is recommended for learners who have completed Unit 1 or studied a minimum of 20 hours in the language.
This course is recommended for learners who have completed Unit 2 or studied a minimum of 40 hours in the language.
This course is recommended for learners who have completed Unit 3 or studied a minimum of 60 hours in the language.
Course aims: - Practise your knowledge of basic, familiar everyday expressions and simple phrases to satisfy                  specific needs; - Further develop productive and receptive skills; - Expand your range of signs; - Develop communication tactics and non-manual components
Bookings will open in August for courses starting September onwards.
View all available BSL courses on our Languages page
UoG staff are entitled to a 10% discount of all BSL courses.
Find out more at the Staff Benefits page

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/anh:
Anyone interested in learning or exploring any of the subject areas.
Our courses cover a wide range of cultural, creative, social, political and historical interests, encouraging the most curious minds to explore:
This course really gave me a confidence boost with my writing, an d has fuelled the spark for writing that I was hoping to kindle!
Creative Writing student
I absolutely loved coming to the class every week.
I learned a lot and have a deeper appreciation of art as a result of the teaching.
History of Art student
Course assessment is optional but on successful completion, you will obtain a set number of credits at either level 1 (SCQF 7) or level 2 (SCQF 8) depending on the course.
Our levels are aligned with the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework so are widely recognised and transferrable.
The number of credits on offer reflect the study time involved and range from 5 to 40, so you can choose the pace and workload that suits you.
Earn enough credits in the right combinations and you can achieve one of the Certificates or Diplomas in Higher Education we have on offer.
To find out more please follow this link to our information page .
Arts and humanities classes are interactive and collaborative, with expertise shared via talks from our tutors and opportunities to try out new ideas in tasks and discussion.
Practical courses in art and creative writing offer lots of opportunities to gain inspiration, practise your craft and learn through sharing with your peers.
On credit-bearing courses, you will also have access to Moodle, the University’s virtual learning environment, where you will find further reading and resources to help you extend your knowledge.
This includes access to the University library and its extensive collections.
Many courses provide virtual reading lists to help guide your research.
Your course Moodle will also offer additional activities for you to practise what you have learnt in class.
On non-credit bearing courses, all students are given access to a dedicated online resource where they will find all the teaching material they need to make the most of the course and explore their weekly topics further.
To book an Arts and Humanities course today please click on the subject links below.
Archaeology, Classics and Egyptology
Art and Art History
Creative Writing
History , International Affairs and Politics
Literature and Film
Philosophy

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/materiallists:
Please find below the material lists for our practical art courses.
NB: We strongly recommend that you do not buy any art materials until one week before your course starts.
We would also encourage you to keep receipts for any items you may choose not to use in class.
Materials such as paint sets will be discussed in the first class to support specific purchases.
The course will begin with drawing before painting is introduced.
The tutor will demonstrate the materials and talk about their use at the start of the course.
You will only need to bring the items listed immediately below to the first class.
First class material list
Full material list
Painting materials
For Watercolour Painting:
Specific half-pans can be bought separately.
These can be bought online or in-store (E.g., Cassart/Millers)
Colours recommended:
Cadmium Red/Alizarin Red/Ultramarine Blue/Prussian Blue/Cerulean Blue/Burnt Umber/Raw Umber/Burnt Sienna/Cadmium Yellow/Lemon Yellow/Veridian Green
For Oil painting
Cadmium Red/Alizarin Red/Ultramarine Blue/Prussian Blue/ Veridian Green/Burnt Umber/Raw Umber/Burnt Sienna/Cadmium Yellow/ Cadmium Yellow Pale/ Titanium White
Note:
We recommend you buy your materials from one of the stores listed below.
Select basic or graduate quality, which will be good and reasonably priced.
Palettes/rags and containers for liquids are provided on site.
Student discounts
You are entitled to a discount at the following art stores in Glasgow.
You will need to bring your booking confirmation email for proof.
Cass arts 10% https://www.cassart.co.uk/stores/glasgow/
Paint & Mortar 10% https://www.paintandmortar.com/
Millers 20% http://www.greyfriarsart.co.uk/contact.html
Painting Materials
For Watercolour Painting
Specific half pans can be bought separately.
These can be bought online or in store (E.g.
Cassart/Millers)
Palettes and containers for liquids are provided on site
Note: We recommend you buy your materials from one of the stores listed below.
Palettes and containers for liquids are provided on site.
m
First class materials
EQUIPMENT
Brushes:
Paint (brands: Winsor and Newton/Daler Rowney/Cassart):
Colours needed:
Cadmium Red/Alizarin Red/Ultramarine Blue/Prussian Blue/ Cerulean blue/Veridian Green/Burnt Umber/Raw Umber/Burnt Sienna/Cadmium Yellow/ Cadmium Yellow Pale/ Titanium White
Palettes/rags and containers for liquids are provided on site
Recommended colours: Cadmium Red/Alizarin Red/Ultramarine Blue/Prussian Blue/Cerulean Blue/Burnt Umber/Raw Umber/Burnt Sienna/Cadmium Yellow/Lemon Yellow/Veridian Green
Equipment
Full materials list
Cass Arts 10% https://www.cassart.co.uk/stores/glasgow/
Paint (brands: Winsor and Newton/Daler Rowney/Cassart):

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/online:
Anyone interested in learning or exploring any of the subject areas below online in an interactive learning environment:
To book an online course today please click on the subject links below.
Languages
Psychology and Counselling Skills
Science

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/informationforstudents/fees:
Fees for all courses must be paid in full on enrolment.
We accept card payments only (Visa and Mastercard).
SAAS Part-time Fee Grant funding
Am I eligible to apply for help with fees?
If you earn £25,000 or less per annum and are taking a course or courses that carrying more than 30 SCQF credits, you may be eligible for the Students Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) Part-Time Fee Grant (PTFG).
Please note: PTFG funding does not cover the full fee for courses; you will be required to pay the additional amount yourself.
Please see full details on using the SAAS Part- time Fee Grant at https://www.saas.gov.uk/part-time
If you plan to use SAAS funding you have two options:
Option 1
You can apply for the Part-time Fee Grant (PTFG) via SAAS (Student Awards Agency for Scotland) before enrolling on your course/s
Please go to http://www.saas.gov.uk/part_time/ug/funding_available.htm to apply.
Once SAAS have processed your funding application, your SAAS portal will be updated to let you know it is pending University of Glasgow validation.
Please then contact the team at Lifelong Learning for instructions on how to enrol on your courses using your SAAS award.
Email lifelonglearning@glasgow.ac.uk .
Option 2
You can pay the full course fee amount upfront in order to secure your enrolment, and then apply for your SAAS Part-time Fee Grant http://www.saas.gov.uk/part_time/ug/funding_available.htm
Please then contact the team at Lifelong Learning.
We will check the accuracy of your course details submitted.
Should this be accurate, we will ‘validate’ your application and SAAS will confirm the final award to you.
You do not need to take any action during this time.
We will refund the amount covered by your PTFG award once SAAS confirm your final award.
For both options above,  at enrolment, students must enrol on all courses/credits that they have in their application to SAAS, in line with SAAS policy.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/short/counsmain:
This course provides an opportunity for students to understand the theoretical approaches and reflective practices required to apply counselling skills across various inter-personal and professional contexts.
It consists of four interlinked units that cover four main strands: listening skills (developed through substantial experiential practice with peers), knowledge of theoretical approaches, self-awareness, and understanding of ethics.
Successful completion of all four units and associated assessments results in students being awarded the COSCA Counselling Skills Certificate and 40 credits at SCQF level 8 (undergraduate level 2).
“ Both the trainers were very knowledgeable and passionate about the course.
The energy and positivity in every class made it easier to learn about the modules and myself.
I feel because of all the positive conditions, the class gelled, and we were very supportive of each other.
A very rewarding experience.” COSCA student
The course is taught in four, ten-week teaching blocks.
Each week of teaching involves one, three-hour class.
For the in-person course, classes take place on the University of Glasgow main campus.
For the online course, classes take place live via Zoom.
For more information on University teaching blocks, please refer to our Term dates page.
For each of the four units, students will complete an assessment portfolio consisting of a skills observation; oral presentation; and a written piece of work (for the latter, a reflective essay in units 1, 2 and 4).
In unit 3 the written piece of work consists of a transcription and analysis of a peer skills practice session.
Given the practical and reflective nature of the course, the assessments are marked as either satisfactory or unsatisfactory rather than using the University’s 22-point grade scale.
COSCA is Scotland’s professional body for counselling and psychotherapy.
For more information, you can visit their website at https://www.cosca.org.uk/
This course is available to anyone interested in learning more about, and developing, counselling skills, either for personal or professional development.
There are no pre-requisites for enrolling on this course.
Please check the individual course you wish to book on for the most up-to-date pricing information.
Partial funding may be available from SAAS, further information on this and how to apply is available through our funding pages
COSCA requires students to attend a minimum of 85% of classes to gain the certificate.
Exemptions may be applied for in exceptional circumstances but cannot be guaranteed.Please check the individual course you wish to book on for the most up-to-date pricing information.
This is a part-time course, and you will be studying 10 credits over each 10-week block.
As this is primarily an experiential course, the bulk of the content will take place in class.
Outside of class, there will be some exercises to complete and an end of unit reflective assessment, but these shouldn’t take up more than a few hours per week.
We currently offer one other counselling short course on ‘Working with Trauma’  This is a five-week, non-credit, introductory course on the subject of trauma.
For more information about the course and when it’s next running, please click on the course link below.
We run between two and four courses each academic year, with a mix of in-person and online iterations.
All courses we run start at the beginning of one of our teaching blocks.
For more information, please, visit out Term Dates page.
If there are no courses currently showing, please check back again in a few weeks when more information should be available.
To receive updates and information about future COSCA courses, please register your interest below.
Register your interest here
Please visit the links below for more information on COSCA.
If there are available dates, they will be listed along with the course information.
COSCA
Working with trauma

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/essentialinformation:
Our Access programme is there to provide a route into undergraduate degree study for those who have been out of formal education for three years or more.
If you have not been out of formal education for three years or more, you will still be eligible for Access if you meet one (or more) of the following Widening Participation criteria:
If this is you, please fill out our To understand what qualifies as Extenuating Circumstances, please refer to the details outlined in the extenuating circumstances form .
Access students will study typically two Access subjects and engage in our Skills, Support and Progression programme (SS&P).
Access is an accepted qualification for entry onto a wide range of University of Glasgow degree programmes.
The Access subjects available are offered across a range of Arts, Social Sciences and Science subject areas and our SS&P programme will help students develop the skills required to be successful on Access, and provide support with making the progression on to undergraduate degree study.
We strive to make Access a supported, engaging and friendly environment where students can learn together with their tutors, peers and Access staff.
Please make use of the Access webpages to get more detailed information on what it is like to study on Access.
If you want to find out more, please join one of our Information Webinars or email access@glasgow.ac.uk .
Your choice of subjects should be guided by two questions
Some degree courses have very specific subject requirements.
Some also have additional requirements for entry (e.g.
Teaching, Law, Psychology); therefore, it is essential that you research the requirements for the degree you wish to apply for and the university you wish to study at, before you enrol on your Access subjects .
For most subjects, apart from the sciences, you do not need any particular knowledge before starting Access.
However, you do have to be ready to start reading and writing in a fairly sophisticated way and should therefore if English is not your first language you should have the necessary English language skills (equivalent to IELTS 6.0) .
If you intend to take Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, Biology or Psychology on Access you must have previous knowledge at an appropriate level such as National 5, or GCSE.
You can find out more on our Information for those wishing to study Science webpage.
We recommend that you refresh your knowledge and are ready to work at this level when Access begins, otherwise you are unlikely to be able to cope with the pace and content of the course.
The Access Programme will run over two Semesters: Se p tember to December, and January to March; and you will attend one online class per week for each subject you are studying.
Classes typically last for two hours, except for Maths, Physics, Chemistry and Biology, which may be up to three hours.
For more information on class times, see the 2025/2026 Timetabling section.
You will also need to spend significant amounts of time learning independently in each subject each week.
The anticipated weekly time commitment to be successful on Access is 15 hours for Arts/Social Sciences students (5 hours of classes, 10 hours of independent study) and 17 hours for Science students (7 hours of classes, 10 hours of independent study).
Please note that this may fluctuate at deadline times such as when submitting assessments or completing your UCAS application.
It is important not to underestimate the amount of time needed for independant independent study.
If you intend to take Access alongside work or other commitments, you should consider well in advance how you plan to manage your time.
In addition to your Access subjects, you will engage with our Skills, Support and Progression Programme.
Skills, Support and Progression (SS&P) will help students develop the skills required to be successful on Access, and provide support with making the progression on to undergraduate degree study.
SS&P is a core component of Access which all students must engage with.
It is delivered in two ways:
You will have regular opportunities to communicate directly with your tutors and peers, for example via Zoom, alongside having access to a variety of learning resources you can work through in your own time.
To help you make the most of your course, you will also have access to resources and support provided by the University.
To learn effectively on Access, you will need:
If you are an asylum seeker studying on our fee waiver scheme, you may be eligible for help obtaining IT equipment.
We will provide information about this after enrolment.
Online learning will be delivered primarily through Zoom and Moodle, the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
If you have not been an online learner before, you are advised to read A Student Guide to Online Learning to find out more.
To be able to cope on Access, you will need high-level English language skills equivalent to one of the following:
If you are in Glasgow, you can use facilities such as the University Library.
You will receive a student card at the start of semester that will give you access to these facilities.
You will complete multiple assessments during the year.
These will vary depending on the courses you are taking, but may include essays, short tests in the class, exercises, lab reports and presentations.
Where possible, you will be given opportunities to practise different types of assessment before submitting work that will contribute to your final grade.
Once you have enrolled on Access, you cannot change subjects, so please ensure you choose the right subjects.
It is important not to underestimate the time commitment required to succeed on Access.
Alongside the 5 – 7 hours per week of scheduled class time (across two Access subjects and SS&P sessions), students should plan in independent study time to ensure that they are keeping on top of coursework and skills development for progression.
The number of credits for a course does gives an indicator of the necessary commitment.
Each credit is equivalent to 10 hours of study, which includes teaching time as well as individual learning.
With students studying 40 (20 credits per academic subjects) credits across Access, plus time required to engage with the SS&P programme, students should expect to dedicate around 15-17 hours a week to studying Access (including class contact time).
This may vary at different points throughout Access, depending on when assessments are taking place or when assignments are due, but ensuring that you have time available to commit to what is required for Access, over and above class times, is essential for successful completion.
Equipping you to study successfully is at the heart of our Access programme.
Alongside your subject learning, you will complete our Access Essentials module, which introduces you to the University, learning in higher education, and some key areas of academic and study development.
This provides an essential foundation for your learning success on Access and beyond.
You will work through Access Essentials independently at your own pace, but the Skills, Support and Progression team are there to support you with any questions you have about the module.
is also a dedicated Skills Co-ordinator on hand to support your skills and learning developmen t.
In addition, you can access support from the University’s central Student Learning Development service; https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sld/ , which covers everything from maths and stats support to academic writing and referencing.
Skills, Support & Progression (SS&P) sessions are also a key component of Access.
These run live every fortnight, and you will register for a regular session time when you enrol on the programme.
SS&P enables you to navigate the support services offered by the University, make informed decisions on your next academic steps, and make your UCAS application for your undergraduate degree.
As a University of Glasgow student, you will have access to all the University’s services and facilities.
This includes the Library , Students' Representative Council (SRC) , sports facilities and, if you are eligible, the Mature Students’ Association .
For more services, see My Glasgow Students .
The fee for Access is £290 per subject (£580 for two subjects) which includes a £152 non-refundable deposit*
If you intend to study Chemical Physics, you must take three subjects, but will only be charged for two.
Please contact access@glasgow.ac.uk for more information.
If you are a Scottish resident with an income below £25,000 per year, you may be eligible for a Part Time Fee Grant.
See our Funding page or more information.
*when outwith 14 day cooling off period.
Teaching takes place over the two University of Glasgow semesters.
Provisional dates for 202 5 –2 6 are:
All applications for full-time degree study in UK universities are made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) .
Students will be provided with support and detailed guidance on the UCAS process once the Access courses has begun.
Access students should plan to set aside sufficient time in October/November/December in order to complete their UCAS application before our internal December deadline.
This will allow us to support students in submitting good quality applications.
For entry to some UofG degrees, for example Nursing and Teaching, successful interview will be required.
For other degrees you may be required to take an additional test, such as the Law National Aptitude Test (LNAT) for Law.
All Access students are expected to apply for undergraduate study beginning in the following academic year.
Whilst some students may have specific reasons for delaying progression, please note that Access results are only valid for entry to UofG undergraduate degrees for 2 years .
Note that completion of our Access courses does not guarantee entry to any university, including the University of Glasgow.
Yes, you can apply to other universities from this Access course.
However, we cannot guarentee that other universities will accept UofG Access Programme for entry.
If you may want to apply to any university other than the University of Glasgow, we strongly advise that you check with the Admissions offices of those specific universities as to whether or not they would accept the UofG Access Programme as a qualification for entry.
It is your responsibility to check this before you enrol on Access.
No, there is no route to these degrees via this Access programme.
We would encourage adult returners interested in these professional degrees to consider the Scottish Widening Access Programme (SWAP) instead.
The University has a very supportive Disability Service , and after enrolling on Access, students can discuss any specific additional support needs they may have with advisors from the Disability Service.
You should declare any disabilities at the time of enrolment, and you will receive information on the next steps you need to take.
If you would like more information before you enrol about the disability support available for Access students, please contact Amy McDermott on access@glasgow.ac.uk .
If you have questions regarding Access 202 5 –2 6 , please email access@glasgow.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/choosingyoursubject:
Access is designed as a pathway to undergraduate study.
In order to progress onto undergraduate degrees at the University of Glasgow, you must choose the suitable Access subjects for progression.
You will most likely already have a good idea which degree programme or area of degree study you are keen to progress onto.
However, we recommend that you take the time to find out more about University of Glasgow degree programmes, and the University's flexible degree structure, to help inform your choice of Access subjects.
The course pages on the main University of Glasgow website provide a comprehensive overview of each degree programme.
Pay particular attention to the programme structure and course details sections of any particular degree subject webpage.
You may also be considering a joint honours degree.
If so, the degree subject webpages (under 'Degrees and UCAS Codes') show what specific combinations are available.
An understanding of the flexible degree structure at the University of Glasgow c an also help to inform your decision of which Access subjects to choose, should your ultimate degree of interest offers be offered as a BSc, an MA or an MA (SocSci) option.
You will find more information on this, on relevant degree webpages, also within the ‘Degrees and UCAS Codes’ section.
So, before enrolling on your two Access subjects*, you must check which subjects are most suitable, or indeed required, for your intended degree path.
You should also make sure to take heed of, any additional entry requirements.
Select the relevant degree programme or degree subject area below to view the Access subject combinations you should choose, and any additional entry requirements you may need, in order to meet the specific degree entry requirements.
If you are still unsure which Access subjects you need to choose in order to progress onto your intended degree, or if you have any previous qualifications achieved within the past 7 years which may contribute towards the entry requirements, please email us before completing the application form at access@glasgow.ac.uk .
*N.B This degree programme requires an Access Science subject, please see ' Essential Information for those wishing to study Sciences ' for more information.
*N.B.
if you wish to progress to a Archaeology BSc degree, this degree programme requires an Access Science subject, please see ' Essential information for those wishing to study Sciences ' for more information.
Choose Business & Management + one Arts/Social Science
Business & Management LLB ➡ see Law
Choose Chemistry , Maths + Physics
Choose Chemistry + Maths
To progress on to this degree you must have at least two days per week of paid or unpaid work in the broad field of community development.
For more information, see Community Development webpage.
Choose Maths + one of Chemistry OR Physics
No entry via Access.
We recommend that you consider the Scottish Wider Access Programme (SWAP) for an alternative route into these professional degree areas.
Choose Economics + Maths
*N.B This degree programme requires an Access Science subject, please see ' Essential information for those wishing to study Sciences ' for more information.
Choose Maths + Physics
Choose any two Sciences
*N.B This degree programme requires an Access Science subject, please see 'Essential information for those wishing to study Sciences ' for more information.
Choose one Science + any one other subject
Choose any two Arts/Social Sciences ➡ Geography MA or MA (SocSci) programme
Choose any two Sciences ➡ Geography (BSc) programme
if you wish to progress to a Geography BSc degree, this degree programme requires an Access Science subject, please see ' Essential information for those wishing to study Sciences ' for more information.
Choose Geology + one Science
if you wish to progress to a Geology degree, this degree programme requires an Access Science subject, please see ' ' for more information.
Choose two subjects from the following: Business & Management, Economics, English Literature, Politics, Psychology, Sociology.
Applicants may be required to sit the Law National Aptitude Test (LNAT) between September 2024 and January 2025.
Choose Biology + Chemistry
Choose Maths + one Arts/Social Science ➡ Mathematics MA programme
Choose Maths + one Science ➡ Mathematics (BSc) programme
Choose any two Arts/Social Sciences
In addition you must
Admission is based on successful interview.
Choose Psychology + one Arts/Social Sciences subject ➡ MA or MA (SocSci)
Choose Psychology + one Science ➡ Psychology BSc
In order to progress to Psychology BSc/MA/MA(SocSci) degrees at the University of Glasgow you will also need National 5 Maths, or equivalent, at Grade B or above.
If you do not have a suitable Maths qualification awarded within the last 7 years, you MUST study a Level 5 Maths course in addition to Access.
You could study the University of Glasgow Lifelong Learning Accelerated Level 5 Maths course, National 5 Maths at an FE College, or through another provider (such as University of Aberdeen online SCQF L5 Maths ) .
These qualifications must be included in your UCAS application and must be completed before progressing onto undergraduate study.
Additionally, if you wish to progress to a Psychology BSc degree, this degree programme requires an Access Science subject, please see ' Essential information for those wishing to study Sciences ' for more information.
Choose any two Arts/Social Sciences*
*If you do not have Higher English (or equivalent) at Grade A or B, awarded within the last 7 years, choose Access English Literature as one of your two subjects.
Note: All applicants to any Teaching degree must also have National 5 Maths (or equivalent) at Grade A or B, usually awarded within the last 7 years.
This is a stipulation of the General Teaching Council for Scotland.
If you do not have this qualification, or it was awarded outwith the 7-years, you must take this qualification at an FE College or other provider (such as University of Aberdeen online SCQF 5 Maths) .
These qualifications must already be started and listed on your UCAS form.
Admission is also based on your UCAS personal statement and successful interview.
Note: there is no entry to Primary Education with Teaching Qualification (Dumfries Campus) MA via Access.
Choose any Maths + Physics*
*In order to progress to Design and Technology Education (Teaching) degree (MDTechEd) at the University of Glasgow you will also need Higher English, or equivalent, at Grade A or B, usually awarded within the last 7 years.
This is a stipulation of the the General Teaching Council for Scotland .
If you do not have this qualification, or it was awarded outwith the 7-year period, you must study Higher English at an FE College or other provider (such as University of Aberdeen online SCQF 6 English) alongside your two Access courses.
These qualifications must already be started at the point of UCAS application.
Note: All applicants to any Teaching degree must also have National 5 Maths (or equivalent) at Grade A or B, usually awarded within the last 7 years.
If you do not have this qualification, or it was awarded outwith the 7-years, you must take this qualification at an FE College or other provider (such as University of Aberdeen online SCQF 5 Maths ) .
Choose Chemistry

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/eligibilitycriteria:
Eligibility Criteria
Access is a targeted programme with specific eligibility criteria.
This webpage will help you determine whether you are eligible to apply.
Our Access to Higher Education Programme is there to provide a route into undergraduate degree study for those who have been out of formal education for three years or more.
In addition to our Widening Participation criteria, Access students must also:
The UofG Access Programme is for UK residents looking to progress on to undergraduate degree-level study.
There are no progression agreements from Access currently in place for International students, so there would be no guarantee that you would be able to move on to degree study from our Access Programme.
Furthermore, as Access is set up for UK students, we cannot offer any advice or guidance on visa processes, funding etc.
for International students.
For more information about how to progress to undergraduate degrees at the University of Glasgow as an International student, please visit our webpage: www.gla.ac.uk/international/
Due to the time commitment required to study on the Access to Higher Education Programme, students cannot study on the UofG Access Programme whilst also engaged in full-time education in another setting (e.g.
at school or college).
If you are still in school, and want to know more about the work that the UofG Widening Participation team carries out in partnership with schools, please visit our website: www.gla.ac.uk/study/wp.
If you are in college, and want to find out if your HNC/HND qualification is suitable for entry, please review the information on this webpage ( www.gla.ac.uk/media/Media_325440_smxx.pdf).
If you are studying any other full-time qualification, please contact our Admissions team if you require more information: www.gla.ac.uk/study/enquire.
To be able to fully engage with the learning and teaching delivered on Access, students are required to have a good level of English language proficiency.
If you do not meet our English language requirements you may want to build your English language proficiency (such as studying English as a Second Language at a local college) and re-apply in the future.
If you would like further details about our eligibility criteria, please attend one of our Access Information Webinars or email access@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/contact:
All enquiries

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/essentialinformationforthosestudyingsciences:
If you are considering studying Maths, Physics, Chemistry, Biology or Psychology on Access, please be aware that a certain level of prior knowledge, or in the case of Maths, a prior qualification, will be required.
See the relevant section(s) below with further information that you should review before making your final Access subject choices.
The topics covered in this course are very similar to those covered in Scottish Higher Maths.
In order to be able to engage successfully with these topics, we require that you have completed Scottish National 5 Maths or equivalent , at grade B or above, before you commence your studies on Access.
Much of the knowledge and understanding at the National 5 level will be presumed on Access Maths, and we know from experience that those who begin without that level of qualification struggle to keep up up with the pace and content of the course.
For further information on what is covered in each of these qualifications, and for resources to help you revise these topics, we recommend BBC Bitesize as a useful reference and tool.
National 5 Maths: https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/subjects/ztrjmp3
Higher Maths: https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/subjects/z6nygk7
The topics covered in these Access subjects are similar to those covered in the equivalent Scottish Highers, and the pace of teaching will be fast.
In order to engage successfully with these topics, we require you have completed Scottish National 5 or equivalent, at grade B or above, int he relevant subject(s) before you commence your studies on Access.
Much of knowledge and understanding at the National 5 level will be presumed.
The pace of teaching on Access science subjects will be fast and we know from experience that those who begin without that Nat 5 level of knowledge and understanding in their subject areas will struggle to keep up with the pace and content of their course(s).
Additionally, for Physics and Chemistry, you must have knowledge and understanding of Maths at National 5 level or equivalent (see information under Maths above).
For some revision material prior to joining Access, we recommend the BBC Bitesize website links below.
Biology: https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/subjects/zync87h
Chemistry: https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/subjects/zmnp34j
Physics: https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/subjects/z6fsgk7
N.B.
Teaching on each of these science subjects will include attending two in-person lab sessions on the main University of Glasgow campus, from which you will complete a lab report as one of your assessments (worth 25% of your overall grade).
Please ensure you can attend these sessions before signing up for the course.
Relevant details can be found in the Access Subject Discriptions section of this webpage.
While there is less pre-requisite knowledge required for studying Access Psychology than in the other sciences, prospective students should be aware that this subject at the University of Glasgow is considered as a science.
As such, a certain level of mathematical understanding (comparable to Nat 5 Maths) will be required to tackle the statistical elements of the Access Psychology course.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/skillssupportandprogression:
Skills, Support and Progression Programme
Alongside their two academic subjects, students on Access students will also participate in our Skills, Support and Progression programme.
The Skills, Support and Progression programme (SS&P) will help students develop the skills required to be successful on Access, and provide support with making the progression on to undergraduate degree study
SS&P sessions, delivered live online, once a fortnight, will provide students with all the information, advice and guidance they require whilst studying on Access, and for their progression onto undergraduate study.
These sessions will also provide an opportunity for students to come together with the Access SS&P Team to discuss topics such as University support structures; the UCAS application process and personal statement writing; finance and funding; and student voice and feedback.
Sessions are delivered once a fortnight at the following times:
Students should select one SS&P session to add to their timetable when choosing their two Access subjects.
Students are encouraged to use their SS&P timeslot on the week that there is not an SS&P live online session to work on their Access Essentials module (see below).
*NB: All students should choose a viable SS&P session slot, wherever possible.
However, we understand that in some instances that may not be practicable, in terms of the terms of the times available.
If you are in this position, please contact us for more information: access@glasgow.ac.uk
In addition to the live online SS&P sessions, all Access students will be encouraged to attend one SS&P Campus Day per semester.
The Access Campus Days are held on the University of Glasgow’s Gilmorehill campus (in the West End of Glasgow).
These events are a great opportunity for students to spend time on campus and meet staff and fellow students in-person.
Further details about the Campus Days will be emailed to students during the Access Programme.
Access Essentials will introduce Access students to the UK higher education context in general, and the University of Glasgow in particular, helping students develop as reflective, independent, and critically-minded learners.
The Access Essentials module is hosted on the University of Glasgow’s Virtual Learning Environment, Moodle, and complements the learning and skills development delivered in the Access Programme.
Students work through Access Essentials as self-directed study and use the Moodle page to engage in conversations with students and staff around the content of the module.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/20252026timetabling:
Subject Information
Before choosing your two Access subjects*, you must check which subjects are most suitable for your intended degree path, and whether or not there are any additional entry requirements for that degree progression.
More information on this is available on our ' Which Access subjects should I choose for my future degree ' page
*Three subjects required for progression to Chemical Physics BSc only.
Provided below are the details of the Access subjects available for Access 2025-26.
When considering which Access subjects to choose, please pay particular attention to the day and time of the subjects you are interested in, ensuring that they do not clash.
Please click the title of the Access subject below to find out more about the content of that subject.
The day/time slots for the fortnightly Skills, Support and Progression programme sessions also listed below.
Please ensure that you consider which SS&P session you will select alongside your two Access subjects.
Before choosing your Access subjects and SS&P session, please consider carefully how you will fit attending these classes into your weekly schedule.
Regular engagement with your live classes is essential in ensuring you have the best chance of success on the Access Programme, and attendance is monitored for that purpose.
Over and above attending classes live online, students should anticipate spending around 10 hours studying independently to fully engage with and understand coursework, and to complete assessments, and this additional time must also be factored in to your weekly schedule.
Arts & Social Science Subjects 2025-26
You will find more information on our Arts & Social Science subjects page.
Tuesday 10-12pm
Wednesday 6.30-8.30pm
Monday 6.30-8.30pm
Tuesday 1-3pm
Science Subjects 2025-26
If you are considering studying Maths, Physics, Chemistry or Biology on Access, please ensure you have the required qualification for that subject.
More details are available on our ‘ Essential information for those studying Sciences ’ page.
You will find more details on our Science Subjects page.
Tuesday 6.30-9.30pm (includes 2 in-person lab visits on 04/11/2025 and 11/11/2025)
Wednesday 6.30-9.30pm (includes 2 in-person lab visits on 05/11/2025 and 12/11/2025)
Monday 6.30-9.30pm (includes 2 in-person lab visits on 02/02/2026 and 09/02/2026)
Thursday 6.30-9.30pm (includes 2 in-person lab visits on 05/02/2026 and 12/02/2026)
Tuesday 6.30-9.30pm
Thursday 10-1pm
Wednesday 6.30-9.30pm (includes 2 in-person lab visits on 5/11/2025 and /11/2025)
Thursday 6.30-9.30pm (includes 2 in-person lab visits on 6/11/2025 and 13/11/2025)
Skills, Support and Progression 2025-26
Along with their two acadamic subjects, students on Access will also participate in our Skills, Support and Progression programme.
Students should select one suitable SS&P session from the available times below when deciding on their final Access timetable.
Tuesday 12-1pm
Tuesday 5.30-6.30pm
Wednesday 12-1pm
Wednesday 5.30-6.30pm
Examples of Timetables
Below are some example timetables to give you an idea of how your week could look as an Access student.
It may also be useful for you at this stge to plot in independent study time to ensure that you are able to commit to undertaking between 15-17 hours of study per week for the duration of Access (class time including).
Example 1: Progression to Social Sciences (Politics MA ScoSci)
SS&P
12-1pm
Social & Economic History
6.30-8.30pm
Politics
Example 2: Progression to Engineering (BEng Civil Engineering)
Maths
10-1pm
5.30-6.30pm
Physics
6.30-9.30pm

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/webinarinformationwebinars:
Whilst Access is open for applications, we will be running information webinars so that attendees can find out more about Access.
The webinars will provide an overview of Access, an insight into the Access subjects on offer, more information about our Skills, Support and Progression programme, guidance on how to complete the Access Application Form and information on funding.
The webinars provide a great opportunity to ask questions about Access and hear directly from staff.
To register for our next webinar, please sign up here: https://forms.office.com/e/xLFePaKgDB
Webinars will be hosted on Zoom and we will send the link to all registered attendees on the day of the webinar.
If you have any questions about our information webinars, please email access@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/accessapplicationform202526:
Access 2025/26 Application Form
In order to enrol on Access, you must first complete our Access Application Form.
The Application Form should take around 20 minutes to complete and has three core sections:
No documentation is required to complete the form, but you should have an idea of any previous qualifications you have, and you must have read the Essential Information and descriptions of our Access subjects in the previous sections on this website before beginning the form.
In particular, please ensure you have a solid understanding of the following:
* Three subjects are required for progression to Chemical Physics BSc only.
Once you have completed the Application Form we will contact you via email to provide you with booking links for your chosen Access subjects and SS&P session.
it is only once you have fully booked your Access subjects that your place on the course will be confirmed.
We will endeavour to email you within 5 working days of completing the form.
If you have any questions about this application, or any other enquiries about Access, please email access@glasgow.ac.uk .
Once you have read all the sections on our Access webpages, please complete the Application Form by clicking the link below.
APPLY FOR ACCESS 2025-26

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/accesssubjectdescriptions:
Before choosing your Access subjects, please take your time to go through the subject descriptions.
For subject descriptions please view the information below.
Archaeology is the study of the material remains of past cultures and offers students fascinating insights into the lives and experiences of others through the artefacts they created and used, and the physical spaces they occupied.
This course focuses on the archaeology of Scotland and will cover topics such as Viking Scotland and Bronze and Iron Age Europe.
You will also be introduced to the key skills needed in interpreting the material record that will lay strong foundations for further study, either in the College of Arts or the College of Social Sciences.
Please note, that there will be one in-person lab in Glasgow as part of the course, this will take place on the following dates at the usual class time.
You will be notified of the room location at the start of the course.
Archaeology Lab:  10 th of February 2026
This lab will be at the usual class time and will take place in the Archaeology Department labs at the University of Glasgow.
Course assessments
This course introduces students to the academic study of Business and Management by focusing on two core areas Marketing, and the Principals of Management & Organisational Behaviour.
Students will be introduced to the fundamentals of competitive analysis, marketing research, the key tenets of managerial practice, and the role finance plays in an organisation's strategies and performance.
As well as gaining knowledge of the fundamentals of Business and Management, you will gain skills useful in studying within any Arts or Social Science subject at university Level 1.
Classical Studies centres on the hugely influential cultures of ancient Greece and Rome.
In this course, students explore highlights of Greek and Roman art, history and literature, starting with one of the greatest literary works of all time: Homer’s Odyssey.
The course will help students develop essential study skills, including laying out arguments in essay form and working together to analyse ancient sources, all of which would be useful for further study across Arts or Social Science subjects.
This course introduces students to core concepts from both micro- and macro-economics, developing skills and knowledge for university Level 1 study in Economics, Business, Finance or related Social Sciences.
An introduction to basic concepts of supply, demand and equilibrium gives way to detailed study of costs of production and the national income.
The course highlights the relevance of the subject to everyday life by concluding with savings, investment, and inflation.
As well as gaining knowledge of the fundamentals of Economics, you will gain skills useful in studying within any Arts or Social Science subject at university Level 1.
This course provides an introduction to English Literature, and develops the skills required for successful undergraduate study in the subject.
The course covers examples of poetry, prose fiction and drama.
Students will learn how to use literary terminology, write academic essays and participate in group discussions.
Identification and explorations of key themes, such as, social class, gender roles and human development will play a significant part in encouraging engagement with the texts.
Have you ever wondered why paintings, sculptures, buildings, and works of design look the way they do?
This course focuses on the key skills and ideas essential to the study of the History of Art, such as formal and contextual analysis, by studying paintings, sculptures, buildings and objects by well-known and less well-known artists.
Designed to critically engage with the aesthetic and cultural conditions that laid the foundations of Western European art, this course will begin with the early Gothic period and conclude with Post Impressionism.
By the end of the course, you should be able to analyse images from a formal perspective, recognise and describe the main areas studied, and analyse art within its historical context, its iconography, and social trends.
As well as gaining knowledge of the fundamentals of the History of Art you will gain skills useful in studying any Arts or Social Science subject at university Level 1
Please note, that there will be two in-person gallery visits in Glasgow as part of the course and will take place on the following dates.
First visit: week 7 (30th of October 2025)
Second visit: week 17 (19 th of February 2026)
These visits will be at the usual class time and the venues will be confirmed nearer the time.
From the discovery of Richard III’s skeleton in 2012 and HBO’s Game of Thrones to the Netflix series The Witcher, images of our medieval past are experiencing something of a media ‘renaissance’.
Are you interested in Charlemagne the Father of Europe or chivalric knights?
In the Inquisition or the Crusades?
In peasant rebellions or the development of parliaments?
In Chaucer or Giotto?
This course offers a wide-ranging look at historical events and debates from Western Europe 500-1450.
The themes of Power, Piety, People & Performance will be examined through four geographical and conceptual areas: Empires, Royal & Ideological States and European Movements.
This course introduces students to philosophy and prepares them for full-time study of philosophy at undergraduate level.
The course has three modules.
(1) Logic and reason teaches students how to reason clearly and methodically about any subject matter using the tools and techniques of classical logic.
(2) Mind and matter applies the methods taught in Logic and reason to foundational questions in the philosophy of mind and cognitive science concerning whether human minds are souls, brains, or computational programs.
(3) Right and wrong applies the methods taught in Logic and reason to foundational questions in moral philosophy concerning whether anything can be objectively right or wrong, and if so what might exactly make something right or wrong.
This course offers an introduction to the academic study of politics.
Politics is about power, institutions, the nature of society and, of course, people.
Any society has to balance the needs of the individual with the greater group.
It is the competition for power between organisations and people that both shape our society and impact on our daily lives.
As part of the preparation for full time studies in politics, this course will provide an initial introduction to the concepts and language of the subject.
We will also consider the specific structure and operation of institutions and electoral systems in the contemporary world, focusing specifically on the UK and the USA.
Psychology is the scientific study of the mind and behaviour.
Consisting of several subfields, such as social psychology, cognitive psychology and developmental psychology, the study of psychology crosses traditional boundaries of science and social science.
This course introduces students to the science of psychology, covering the scientific methods used in the discipline (with practical lab report writing and data analysis sessions), as well as introducing key topics and theories within a variety of subfields of psychology.
As well as gaining knowledge of the fundamentals of psychology and data analysis, you will gain skills useful in studying within the sciences and social sciences at university Level 1.
This course considers the history of Scotland between 1603 and 1715, charting the kingdom’s key political, social, cultural, and economic changes during this turbulent period.
Topics will include the Scottish ‘witch-hunts’, the mid-seventeenth century civil wars, the Anglo-Scottish Union of 1707, and the 1715 Jacobite Rebellion.
Particular attention will be given to how these national events impacted Scots in Glasgow at a local level.
Participants will be encouraged to consider distinctions between cultural myth and historical interpretation and to develop the critical thinking and skills required for undergraduate study.
This course examines the social and economic history of Britain between 1830 and 1980.
The course focuses on the changes that shaped British society during this period and explores the key social, economic, and political drivers of this change.
It examines the effects of these changes on society but places particular emphasis on gender and class relationships.
Topics explored throughout this course include: industrialisation, family, leisure and consumerism, the British Empire, the rise of the welfare state, and the social and economic effects of two world wars.
Offering an introduction to the academic discipline of social and economic history; it will serve as an introduction to first-year studies in the subject, but will also be useful to students with a wider interest in history and/or the social sciences.
Sociology is a way of seeing.
It offers a vantage point from which to look at different aspects of social life; equality, education, the media, health, employment, crime, art and culture.
These issues and many more have provided sociologists with their material for study and analysis.
This course introduces students to the key ideas, methods and themes of Sociology by looking at the development of the subject through core topics such as equality, culture and societal structures.
Enabling students to develop skills and knowledge for University Level 1 study.
Religion has been a cornerstone of human societies and cultures for millennia, and this course is designed to introduce students to the academic study of theology, religion, and sacred texts.
The course provides students with the opportunity to study key dimensions of the Abrahamic religions: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
Texts from the Christian Bible will also be studied, and their historical impact assessed.
Looking beyond the Abrahamic religions, you will learn about the Asian traditions of Hinduism and Buddhism.
Students will also be introduced to the philosophy of religion, which uses reasoned argument to investigate religious claims, while trying to answer perennial questions about the origins and meaning of our existence.
The critical skills developed on this course make it an excellent foundation for the academic study of subjects across the Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences.
Course Assessments
Two essays (1500 words each, and individually account for 40% of the final grade)
One source analysis (500 words): w orth 20% of the final grade.
Biology offers an understanding of the natural world around us and is a core subject for anyone interested in pursuing study in the life sciences.
This course introduces students to the key ideas and methods of biology, covering topics such as: evolution and biodiversity; cellular structure, function and respiration; photosynthesis; the cardiovascular system; and human physiology including infection and immunity.
You will complete two in-person lab sessions as part of this course, gaining practical experience of e.g.
lungs or heart dissection, while working towards the lab report assessment.
In person labs will take place on the following dates:
Lab 1: Tuesday class- 04/11/2025 .
Wednesday class- 05/11/2025
Lab 2: Tuesday class- 11/11/2025 .
Wednesday class- 12/11/2025
As well as gaining knowledge of the fundamentals of biology, you will gain skills useful in studying within any science subject at university Level 1.
The course will be assessed across four equally weighted assessments:
Please note you should complete pre-Access revision for this course and be prepared for this level of study.
Chemistry, as the ‘central science’, offers a basis to better understand the physical world around you and is a core subject for progression to nursing as well as several other science degrees.
This course introduces students to the fundamental concepts and themes within chemistry, spanning topics such as periodicity, bonding, polymers, thermodynamics and redox.
You will learn how to construct chemical formulae and equations.
You will complete in-person lab sessions within this course, gaining hands on practical experience and presenting your experimental results through the associated lab report.
Lab dates are as follows:
Lab 1: Monday class- 02/02/2026 .
Thursday class- 05/02/2026
Lab 2: Monday class- 9/02/2026 .
Thursday class- 12/02/2026
You will also learn to research, review and communicate scientific literature.
As well as gaining fundamental knowledge of chemistry, you will gain many transferable skills useful in studying within any science subject at university Level 1.
N5/GCSE level chemistry and maths would be an appropriate starting point.
Access Chemistry is a quantitative subject and as such, a solid numerical skillset, including a grasp of basic algebra, is required.
Geology is a branch of Earth Science concerned with the physical structure and substance of the Earth, its evolution, and the Earth processes (for example earthquakes, floods, and volcanic eruptions).
This course introduces students to the key ideas and methods of geology through exploring four themes: planet earth and its history; earth processes and geohazards; the geology of Scotland; and evolution of life, climates and environments.
You will complete two in-person lab sessions as part of this course, gaining practical experience in this highly physical science.
Lab 1: 20/11/2025
Lab 2: 27/11/2025
As well as gaining knowledge of the fundamentals of geology, you will gain skills useful in studying within the sciences at university Level 1.
The course is assessed across four assessments:
Mathematics is useful in a wide range of professional contexts and disciplines and is fundamental to further study in the sciences, psychology and economics.
This course introduces students to core topics in maths including functions, quadratic graphs, trigonometry, differentiation, integration, series, vectors and complex numbers.
As well as gaining knowledge of the fundamentals of maths, you will gain skills useful in studying within any science subject at university Level 1.
The course will be assessed through five 30-minute class ‘topic’ tests taken throughout the year (the best four out of five contributing to 70% of your final grade) and one 60-minute, end-of-year summary test (weighted 30%).
Physics offers a foundation for many other sciences, including chemistry, engineering, astronomy and seismology, whilst developing your analytical skills.
This course introduces students to the key ideas and methods of physics, covering topics such as motion, energy, electromagnetism, and optics.
You will also learn how to solve real word physics problems by carrying out algebraic, trigonometric and numerical operations.
You will complete two in-person lab sessions as part of this course, gaining practical experience while working towards the lab report assessment.
Lab 1: Wednesday class- 5/11/2025.
Thursday class 6/11/2025.
Lab 2: Wednesday class- 12/11/2025.
Thursday class 13/11/2025.
As well as gaining knowledge of the fundamentals of physics, you will gain skills useful in studying within any science subject at university Level 1.
The course will be assessed across four equally weighted assessments: a 1250-word lab report; a 10-minute presentation and two 30-minute timed set exercises.
Please note you should complete pre-Access revision for this course (both in maths and physics) and be prepared for this level of study.
The course is assessed across three assessments: a 1500-word essay (40%), a 2000-word lab report (40%) and a 15-minute group presentation (20%).

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp:
LSO 2025
We are looking to understand ways in which applicants and students from GRSTB communities can be supported in their journey to and through Higher Education.
Evidence of success
Job Opportunities

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/care/estranged:
We welcome and actively support applications from those who are estranged and studying without family support.
Who are ‘Estranged Students’?
Estranged students are young people studying without the support of a family network, due to a breakdown in those relationships.
Individuals in this position often have no contact at all with their family, or sporadic and conflictual contact.
Key causes of a breakdown of family relationships could include (but are not limited to): emotional or physical abuse, mismatched expectations about family roles and relationships, or a clash of personality or values.
Support for estranged students at the University of Glasgow
If you are estranged from your family, and you are thinking of applying to the University of Glasgow, there is a range of support and provision that we can offer.
This could include free participation in one of our pre-entry programmes , a guaranteed adjusted offer of entry , year-round accommodation , and additional Bursary support .
Dedicated, named points of contact
The University of Glasgow also has dedicated points of contact for estranged students – Daniel Keenan , Jennifer Weightman and Amy McDermott .
Da, Jenn and Amy can provide advice, guidance and support, from the application stage to graduation.
So, if you are estranged from family and are thinking of applying to the University of Glasgow, or if you have any questions about our entry requirements, SAAS funding, additional bursaries, or the further support the University can offer, please contact Dan, Jenn and/or Amy directly.
We also encourage all estranged applicants to tick the UCAS box, which will be introduced for the 2020/21 application cycle.
This self-identification will only ever be used by the University in a positive way, allowing us to contact you directly about the support and provision we can offer.
StandAlone
The University of Glasgow signed the StandAlone Pledge in 2016, and we are proud to work in partnership with StandAlone , an organisation that supports and advocates on behalf of estranged students.
If you have any questions about our eligibility criteria for the purposes of admission, please contact Dan or Amy directly.
In recognition of the fact that each person’s individual experience will be unique and particular to them, we are keen to consider applications on a case-by-case basis.
The key criteria for eligibility will always be that an individual’s formal or compulsory schooling was significantly disrupted and/or affected negatively, by their estrangement.
This is the type of disadvantage that our ‘estranged student support’ offer is designed to address.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/care/carers:
In order to be verified for an adjusted offer as a carer, applicants must have noted their caring responsibilities in their UCAS application and/or made the university aware of their caring responsibilities.
In order to be verified:
If you do not receive support from a Carers' Centre, we will also accept either:
We cannot accept letters from teachers or GPs as evidence for Carers’ verifications.
The University does not require a Carer to send a copy of their Young Carers Statement.
If you have any questions about the verification process or require further information or clarification, please do not hesitate to contact the Student Carer Support Co-ordinators, Denise Hooper and Heather Wells.
Once at the University, students who are carers are entitled to a Carers’ Plan – a document which outlines adjustments or mitigations to be put in place to help the student balance their studies alongside their caring responsibilities.
The University of Glasgow has a Student Carers’ Policy in place which outlines how the university can support you to balance your caring responsibilities with your studies.
For more information please see the Senate Office page .
The University is committed to providing as much flexibility as possible to facilitate students’ success, making sure no student is disadvantaged whilst ensuring academic standards are not compromised.
For Carers who, due to their caring responsibilities, will require special arrangements, these can be can put in place by filling out a Student Carers Plan with your Advisor of Studies/Advising Team.
This document lays out the provisions which you can have in place to help you balance your academic commitments with your role as a Carer, and can be filled out and amended at any point during your studies.
Those with caring responsibilities are a priority group for our Talent Scholarships .
These can provide £1,500 for each year of your degree.
Other financial support may also be available through the University's HEI Discretionary & Childcare Fund , as well as a variety of other scholarships and educational loans which you can find out about on our student finance pages.
Please make sure to indicate that you are a Carer on the application form.
For more information on other support available please visit Carers Trust Scotland .
You can find your nearest Carer Centre by typing your postcode into the ‘ Find local care and carer service ’ search bar on the Carers Trust Scotland website.
Your nearest Carers Trust Scotland Network Partner Carers Centre will be able to give you more information on what support is available in your local area, including respite and your entitlements under the Carers Act (2016).
In 2019 the University of Glasgow was awarded the Going Higher for Student Carers Award in recognition of the support and provision that we have in place for student carers.
For more information please contact our Student Carer Support Coordinators, Denise and Heather .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/asylum:
We welcome and actively support applications from forced migrants, including those seeking asylum and refugees.
As a University of Sanctuary , we offer tailored support throughout your studies to forced migrant applicants, including those seeking asylum and refugees, looking to study at the University of Glasgow.
We offer guidance from the pre-application stage, such as providing information on entry routes and which courses are available, through to supporting you when on-course here at the University of Glasgow.
You may also be eligible for an adjusted offer of entry .
For students who are currently seeking asylum and do not have recourse to SAAS funding for tuition fees, we can help you to explore alternative funding sources which may be available to you.
If eligible, you are encouraged to apply to our Sanctuary Scholarships , which provide financial support for the duration of your studies.
We have named points of contact within our team, Jen Thompson-Ross and Scott Iguchi-Sherry, at sanctuary@glasgow.ac.uk who are here to help you and answer any questions that you might have throughout your application process.
No matter what stage you're at, we encourage you to get in touch with us so that we can discuss your options.
Even if you're just looking for information about possible future applications, having input from the University from the very beginning can make the whole process much more straightforward.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/informationforasylumseekers:
The University of Glasgow is committed to welcoming all applicants, regardless of their background.
As part of this commitment, fee waivers will be offered each year to Access students who are seeking asylum.
Applications for our Access Fee Waiver scheme for academic year 2025/26 open at 09:00 on Monday 24 th March 2025 and will close at 23:00 on Sunday 6 th of April 2025 .
Before completing your application form please ensure that you have read the information on our Access webpages .
In particular, please ensure that you have a solid understanding of the following:
More information about University of Glasgow Access to Higher Education programme is available across these webpages.
We encourage you to familiarise yourself with what our Access Programme can offer and ask you to ensure that you have researched which degree programme you hope to progress onto after Access.
Access Fee Waiver Scheme Application Form: https://forms.office.com/e/TgWKvWpWPi
If you would like any further information or to ask any questions, please don’t hesitate to get in touch with the team by emailing sanctuary@glasgow.ac.uk .
For more information about the support available for refugee and asylum seeker students studying at the University of Glasgow, please visit our Widening Participation webpages.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/whychooseaccess:
Our Access to Higher Education programme offers a part-time, flexible route to degree study for adults returning to education, or those who meet our Widening Participation eligibility criteria.
Access at the University of Glasgow can enable progression on to a wide range of our undergraduate degrees.
This includes our professional degree programmes, such as Nursing, Primary Education and Law, and many more degrees across the Arts, Social Sciences, Sciences and Engineering.
Students on Access take two academic subjects alongside our Skills, Support and Progression (SS&P) programme.
Our Access subjects are taught by academic specialists with a range of subject areas on offer from across Arts, Social Sciences and Sciences.
Our SS&P programme provides the skills and support required for successful study, both on Access and at undergraduate degree level.
Access is accepted as a valid qualification for entry to many University of Glasgow (UofG) degrees.
Guidance on how to complete a UCAS application (required for any university application) is also offered through our SS&P sessions.
Further sessions after will support students with all aspects involving with making a successful transition to undergraduate study.
Access students recieve a University of Glasgow student card meaning that they can access the University Library, join clubs, societies and sports teams and take advantage of our various student services.
Please make use of these Access webpages to get more detailed information on what it is like to study on Access.
And, if you want to find out more before applying, please join one of our information webinars or email access@glasgow.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/webinar:
The webinars will provide an overview of Access, an insight into the Access subjects on offer, more information about our Skills, Support and Progression programme, guidance on how to complete the Access Application Form, and information on funding.
To register for our next webinar, please complete this form

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/wp/accessprogramme/funding:
Cost: £290 per subject
Most students take two subjects, costing a total of £580*.
Funding for students resident in Scotland
If you earn £25,000 or less per annum and live in Scotland, you may be eligible for the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) Part-Time Fee Grant (PTFG) which will contribute £214 towards the cost of each subject you are studying.
Students are required to pay the remaining balance themselves (usually £152, or £76.00 per subject).
For full details on the SAAS Part-time Fee Grant, visit the SAAS website .
If you are eligible you then have two options:
In either case, please wait until the 2024–25 online application becomes available on the SAAS website before applying.
This should be towards the beginning of April 2024.
If you apply for SAAS at an early stage it is likely that places on your preferred Access courses will still be available, but please note that as the classes fill up on a first come basis, there are no guarantees.
If you need more information on funding and using SAAS you can email our admin team at access@glasgow.ac.uk .
Funding for students seeking asylum
If you are currently seeking asylum and do not have recourse to SAAS funding to cover course fees, you may be eligible for a place on Access through our fee-waiver scheme .
Other funding sources
There may be other sources of support specific to your own personal circumstances (e.g.
retraining schemes for people leaving the Armed Forces, employer sponsorship) and we may be able to accept these.
Please contact us for advice at access@glasgow.ac.uk .
Self-funding
If you are not eligible for the Part Time Fee Grant, your fee must be paid in full on enrolment.
If you need to discuss flexible payment options, please contact us at access@glasgow.ac.uk .
*includes non-refundable deposit of £152 (outwith 14 day cooling off period).

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/choosingyourdegree/artssciencesocialsciences:
Honours degrees in arts, humanities, social sciences and science offer you the flexibility to study several subjects before choosing a specialism of one or two.
They usually take four years to complete.
Degrees that involve a language usually require an additional year studying abroad.
During an Honours degree programme you’ll usually study
You should show in your UCAS choices the subject(s) that interest you the most, but you’ll be able to try at least three subjects during the first two years, before you pick your Honours options.
Being admitted on a particular UCAS code does not mean that you will automatically progress to Honours level in that subject.
In most cases, a decision will be made at the end of the second (or sometimes third) year about whether you will progress to Honours level.
Decisions re progression will be based on your academic performance during your first two years at the University.
The entry threshold to honours varies by School/College and may change on a year to year basis.
For more information about how our Honours degree programmes work, see:
If you have exceptional A-level or Advanced Higher grades it’s possible to enter directly into Year 2 or follow a faster route advanced entry programme.
This does not apply to all degree programmes or subjects.
Applicants to these degree programmes are offered a flexible degree structure which means that they are not committed to a completely prescribed selection of subjects from the outset of their degree.
All students are normally required to study 3 subjects in Year 1.
Students who applied for a Single Honours degree will be guaranteed enrolment on the ONE subject they entered on their UCAS form.
Students who applied for a Joint Honours degree will be guaranteed enrolment on the TWO subjects they entered on their UCAS form.
At the point of enrolment at the University (September)  Single Honours students will select two additional subjects and Joint Honours students will select one additional subject from a wide range of options.
It is important for applicants and students to note:
Single Honours students in Science will continue to study TWO of the subjects they studied in Year 1, one of which will be the subject they originally applied for through UCAS.
Single Honours students in Life Sciences may continue to study TWO of the subjects they studied in Year 1, one of which will be the subject they originally applied for through UCAS, or they may choose to study only Life Sciences.
Single Honours students in Arts and Social Sciences will continue to study TWO subjects from Year 1 and must choose a third subject.
Joint Honours students will continue to study TWO subjects (usually those originally applied for through UCAS) and, in most cases, must choose a third subject.
Single Honours students will study ONE subject only at honours level.
Joint Honours students will study TWO subjects at honours level.
15 January is the UCAS deadline for submitting all applications to the University.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that their application is complete and accurate prior to submission.
The University is under no obligation to honour changes to applications after they have been submitted to the University – this includes requests to change degree programmes or subject areas.
It is highly unlikely that Admissions will allow a student to make a significant change in their application: ie from Arts to Science, Science to Arts, Arts to Social Sciences etc.
Changes to subjects within a similar area MAY be permitted in some cases but cannot be guaranteed.
The intent behind the flexible degree structure is to give students a degree of choice in the additional subjects that they can study when they arrive at University without requiring them to make decisions in advance (at point of application).
Through studying a variety of additional subjects this also gives the student greater flexibility in what they ultimately graduate in.
The intent is NOT to give the applicant or student ‘carte blanche’ ability to radically change from one subject area to another: for example from Physics to English Literature.
Students should not apply to the University with the expectation that they will be able to change.
Applicants need to think seriously about the ‘prime’ subjects that they wish to study on the understanding that they may not be able to change these after they have confirmed their place.
In the event that a student is deeply unhappy with their prime subject choice, every attempt will be made to help them change but even this cannot be guaranteed.
Requests to change will be restricted by the number of students who have been admitted to courses through ‘normal’ admissions processes (ie requested the subject on their UCAS form and selection of optional subjects at the start of term).
It is more likely that requests to change will be satisfied where the change is to a similar subject: ie changes within Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences or Science rather than changes between Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences and Science.
Under no circumstances will a change be sanctioned where the student did not meet the entry requirements for a degree programme at their point of admission to the University.
In the event that a change is sanctioned post admission to the University this will be managed by the Chief Adviser of Studies originally responsible for the student.
This is regarded as an ‘internal change’ and the student does not need to submit any form of application.
In the event that an internal change is not possible the student will be left with no choice but to either continue with their original degree programme or to withdraw from the University and reapply through UCAS for admission the following year.
In this scenario, SAAS funded students will be advised to withdraw PRIOR to 1 December in their year of registration as SAAS will regard this as a ‘false start’ and there will be no impact on the student’s funding when they reapply.
Students with other funding arrangements should check the financial implications with their funding body.
The flexible degree structure allows students who have completed a subject at Levels 1 and 2 to progress in this subject to Junior/Senior Honours even if this subject was not the subject of choice on their UCAS application.
The student may have selected (for example) English Literature on their UCAS form and picked History as one of his/her additional subjects in Year 1.
Having liked History, the student could then study this subject at Level 2.
When entering his/her Honours years the student could then opt to study History instead of English Literature (or depending on his/her performance do joint Honours in History/English Literature).
This illustrates the level of flexibility the student has without radically altering his/her degree programme.
Specific entry requirements for selection
SQA Higher, Advanced Higher or A-level in the relevant language at Grade B or A, achieved within the previous 3 years.
Students without such a qualification in the language concerned and wishing to take the corresponding level 1 beginners course are normally required to demonstrate some previous successful experience of foreign language learning.
Higher Mathematics at Grade B or A Level Mathematics at Grade C, or Higher Mathematics at Grade C together with Higher Computer Studies or Information Systems at Grade B.
Higher or A Level Mathematics at B.
Admission to Astronomy requires Standard Grade Physics at 2 or GCSE Physics at B
Degree programme
Compulsory subject 1
Compulsory subject 2
Compulsory subject 3
Any Life Sciences programme
Biology
Chemistry OR
Science Fundamentals
Mathematics
Statistics
Chemical Physics
Chemistry
Astronomy & Physics
Astronomy
Physics with Astrophysics

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/choosingyourdegree/professional:
This type of degree is for you if you’re keen to practise in a particular profession: as an accountant or engineer, for example.
The professional degree subjects we offer are:
These degrees follow a set curriculum to meet the requirements of the relevant professional organisation so that you’re fully prepared to enter your chosen profession after you graduate.
They are usually completed in four or five years.
See the individual subject pages for more information.
See Advanced entry / faster route for more information.
Applicants to these degree programmes follow a set curriculum to meet the requirements of the relevant professional organisation so that the student is fully prepared to enter their chosen profession after graduation.
Consequently, these degree programmes offer far less flexibility with regards to subject choices once the student commences their studies at the University.
Some programmes such as Law or Accountancy allow students to study additional (optional) subjects such as a foreign language alongside their core curriculum; however these are incremental to their normal workload.
Under no circumstances will applicants to Professional Degree Programmes be allowed to transfer to another Professional Degree Programme.
The general premise is that students who applied to a Professional Degree Programme will not be allowed to transfer to one of the degree programmes listed in Section 1 of this paper and applicants should not apply to the University with the expectation that they will be able to change.
In exceptional circumstances where a student is deeply unhappy having commenced their Professional Degree Programme and they wish to transfer, every attempt will be made to help them change but this cannot be guaranteed.
In this scenario students will be advised to withdraw PRIOR to December 1 st in their year of registration as SAAS will regard this as a ‘false start’ and there will be no impact on the students funding when they reapply.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/colleges/arts:
Welcome
Information for Postgraduate Offer Holders
College Strategy

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/colleges/scienceengineering:
We are committed to tackling global challenges, answering scientific questions, and solving industrial problems through world-class research, interdisciplinary collaboration, and research-led teaching.
Schools
Staff A-Z
Information for staff
Information for students
Graduate School & Doctoral Training Hub
Explore our research impact by theme:
Find out about the lasting impact of our research:
Studying Science or Engineering at research or Masters level means that you will be part of a Graduate School and Doctoral Training Hub which provides the highest level of support to its students:
We have several Centres of Research Excellence:
We host a number of UKRI-funded Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs), where future research leaders are equipped to tackle some of society's most pressing scientific challenges:
Find out more about available research fellowships that can support you when undertaking your research:
Fellowships
Impact acceleration accounts (IAAs) enable the translation of research into impact through support for commercialisation, engagement, staff mobility and culture change.
Our College is home to three of the seven IAAs held by the University with a combined value of over £10 million.
We are committed to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to contribute to the world's most pressing global challenges:
United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals
Information and resources — from application to registration:
Once you have completed your registration and enrolment, begin your student journey here with events and resources to help you navigate your first few weeks at university.
Find the right undergraduate programme for you:
Explore our postgraduate taught study options:
Work with our renowned researchers on your postgraduate research project:
Explore your study options:
Find out what scholarship opportunities you could be eligible for:
Scholarships and funding
Have a research challenge?
Our Industry Engagement Team can connect you with world-leading researchers to innovate and create impact.
Industry and external engagement
We have partnerships with higher education institutions across the world which offer international students an opportunity to study in both their home country and at the University of Glasgow:
International partnership programmes
Find information and resources for current staff and students of the College:
Work with us and develop your career within a supportive environment where success is shared and celebrated:
Jobs at Glasgow

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/abroadexchange/team:
If you have any specific questions or would like further information, please email:

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/visiting/studyabroadexchange:
Our Study Abroad and Exchange programmes are suited to undergraduate students in their 2nd or 3rd year of their home degree.
Students in their final year of study should be aware that we cannot guarantee specific courses, and that our grade and transcript issue timescales may conflict with home graduation timescales.
We advise against final year applicants due to these logistical considerations.
Postgraduate students are only able to take level 4 courses, as level 5 postgraduate courses are not available to visiting students.
Following the UK’s departure from the Erasmus+ programme on 31 May 2023, we are now welcoming students from our European partner institutions through our International Exchange programme.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/visiting/internationalsummerschool:
2025 International Summer School
Applications now closed
Welcome to the University of Glasgow International Summer School.
Come and spend the summer with us!
Each year, we welcome students from across the globe, to study at a world-leading, top 100 university.
Coming to Glasgow is your opportunity to experience study in an international setting, gain credits and immerse yourself in Scottish culture.
We offer a modern learning environment in one of the world’s friendliest cities, with the main campus nestled within Glasgow’s West End, home to cafés, bars, restaurants, vintage boutiques and cultural attractions.
Our courses are delivered by world-renowned academics in state-of-the-art study spaces.
Alongside this, our social and cultural programme showcases Scotland and its culture, including weekend trips and an introduction to Scottish ceilidh dancing!
If you have any questions, please contact us: internationalsummerschools@glasgow.ac.uk
Register your interest to be the first to know when applications open for summer 2025

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/goabroad/goabroadwork:
Working abroad will kick start your professional career, develop your global mindset and build a network of international links.
You’ll develop skills that employers value such as independence, problem solving and communicating with different people.
Find out about the value of global skills, international internships and networking with alumni around the world.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/inyourcountry:
Our international team attends events throughout the world.
Find out who our representative is in your country and how you can meet them.
Find out how our International Representatives can help you with the application process.
Discover more about the University of Glasgow and your country

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/englishlanguage:
Find out what our English language requirements are for non-native speakers.
If you do not meet the English language requirements, we run a number of language courses to bring your English up to entry level for university study.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/country:
Staff from our International Office travel throughout the world, attending exhibitions, holding information sessions for prospective students and interviewing candidates.
Our team would be delighted to talk to you and answer any queries you might have.
If your country/region does not have an individual listing then please be assured we welcome students from all over the world and will have entry requirements accordingly.
For further information, please email student.recruitment@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/inyourcountry/representatives:
We work with selected University of Glasgow representatives (agents) worldwide.
Our overseas representatives can:
You can use the search tool below to find agents who operate in your country.
This list is reviewed and updated regularly.
Whilst we strive to maintain its accuracy, students are advised to contact the education agent's main office directly for the most current information on regional offices.
For any inquiries, please email student.recruitment@glasgow.ac.uk
Country:* Please select a country {{country.name}}
Search
{{l.address}} {{l.city}} {{l.postcode}} {{l.country}} {{l.phone}} {{l.email}} {{l.website}}
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
An agent or agency is an in dividual or organisation that offers advice to students about studying overseas.
Agents work in partnership with universi ties to support you through the entire selection and application process.
They usually represent a portfolio of universities and will make personalised recommendations based on your academic qualifications, the subject area you wish to study in, and your budget.
You are under no obligation to use an agent to apply to the University of Glasgow, but you may wish to.
Agents can support you in making an informed decision about your studies, but the decision is still yours.
Ag ents can o ffer sup port and u seful in formation at al l stages of the a pplication process , which migh t be es pecially h elpful if you hav e not tra velled or lived abro ad bef ore .
Agent s contracted by t he Universit y of Glasgow have been especiall y trained to provide applic ants with relev ant informat ion to s tudying a t Glasgow , and to offer inf ormed and bespoke guidance on choosing a nd ap plying for you r future studies.
They can advise on the courses available and t he suitability of yo ur qualificatio ns and background , can support you with gathering the necessary documents for your application and travel guidance, and can liaise with the university on your behalf.
If you have decided to use an agent to support with your application to the University of Glasgow then you should refer to our Representative search function (above) to find the approved agents that we work with who are operating in your country.
This lists agents who are authorised to represent the University of Glasgow and have received bespoke training from us to help them do so.
You can also refer to the British Council website , which gives additional advice about choosing an agent and lists accredited agents who have completed UK Certified Counsellor Training with the British Council.
When you’ve chosen an agent to approach, remember that no agent can promise guaranteed admission, scholarships or fast-tracked visa process.
If you’re unsure about any of the information you’re being given then always verify this with us by reaching out to your regional University of Glasgow representative or making an online enquiry .
Agents have a duty to provide honest and transparent information about the universities that they represent and the application process.
They should:
They should not:
If your agent does not fulfil these responsibilities, you should inform the university via our agent complaints procedure.
When working with an agent, you are entitled to:
We take your concerns very seriously.
You should inform the university immediately if an agent:
If you wish to make a complaint about any of the issues listed here, or any other concerns you have about your agent, you should contact us at Student.Recruitment@glasgow.ac.uk .
Please include your full name, your applicant ID number, the name of your agent and (if appropriate) any counsellors, and as much detail as possible about the situation.
We will investigate all complaints discreetly, so please do not worry about this information being shared with the agent.
Our resolution of the complaint will vary depending on the nature and severity of the concern.
In any case we will likely:
In extreme circumstances, we can also terminate an agent’s contract with the University of Glasgow.
The University of Glasgow is committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework (AQF) and pledge to create and maintain the highest standards of agent management, ensuring the UK remains leading study destination for international students.
We have recently signed a pledge with the British Universities' International Liaison Association and the British Council, which declares that we are committed to:
You can read more about working with Educational Agents in the
Student Guide to Choosing an Education Agent
If you are concerned your chosen representative is not meeting the expectations outlined above and wish to change representative, please contact the University of Glasgow's International Office immediately at Student.Recruitment@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/inyourcountry/internationalstudentsfaq:
Frequently Asked Questions
We're delighted that you are considering Glasgow.
We've compiled some answers to help you with questions that you may have.
Please note that the information on this page is for full-time non-EU international students only .
EU students should visit our EU webpages for more information.
If you are coming to Glasgow as part of a Study Abroad, Exchange or Summer School programme, please go to our Visiting Student pages.
Our International Student Support webpages contain further advice to help you both before and after your arrival in Glasgow.
All enquiries
Please use our enquiry form
Follow the links below for a complete list of the subjects we offer:
We offer a selection of online Masters programmes .
We do not currently offer foundation, undergraduate, pre-masters or PhD programmes online.
All Scottish undergraduate degrees at 4 years in length.
Follow the links for information on choosing your degree and our degree structure .
Yes, details on our Foundation and Pre-Masters programmes .
We offer a range of pre-sessional programmes , the length of the programme depends on your ability.
Postgraduate: we do not accept transfer students onto postgraduate programmes.
The University can consider transfer applications from international students for the programmes listed on our Advanced Entry webpage .
If applying for a transfer to the University of Glasgow or admit to a degree programme with advanced standing you should clearly state the year of entry on your application i.e.
2nd or 3rd year.
Transfers to the final year are not possible.
Your papers will be referred to the relevant School along with your UCAS application for a decision and we will let you have this decision as soon as possible through online UCAS track.
Decisions are made on a case-by-case basis so please make an application so Admissions can see your complete academic history.
All transfer applications must be made through UCAS at ucas.com .
Students must have been ordinarily resident in the UK for three full consecutive years prior to the start of study.
Ordinary residence is described as 'a regular, habitual mode of life in a particular place, the continuity of which has persisted despite temporary absences'.
If you have been living outside the UK for three years then it is likely that you would need to pay the international fee.
Substantive evidence of relevant connection and temporary employment will be requested by the Admissions Department in determining an applicant's fee status.
The final decision as to whether a student has been ordinarily resident remains the discretion of the University of Glasgow.
Some circumstances require further investigation to come to a fee status decision and are assessed on a case-by-case basis.
For more details, please click here .
We offer a number of different scholarships for undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Please use our Scholarship search tool to find University and external awards you are eligible for.
95.9% of our graduates find employment or are continuing their studies 6 months after graduation (DHLE 2016/17).
Our on-campus Careers Service can help you with your CV, application and interview skills.
They host information sessions in partnership with the International Student Support team on finding work in the UK.
See also: Working in the UK after studies
Please see Campus Tours for Prospective Students
Chat to our students
The Glasgow-based recruitment team and in-country staff are beginning to travel again in 2022.
To check if a trip is arranged to your country, please check webpage for your country/region .
To contact our in-country staff in China, India, Indonesia, Nigeria, Singapore and USA, please complete the online enquiry form .
Please go to the webpage for the programme you want to study:
Please check the entry requirements for your country/region .
We accept the Academic or the Academic UKVI IELTS.
We do not accept the General IELTS or IELTS Indicator.
You must submit English Language test results as part of your application unless
Undergraduate/Bachelors applications open at the beginning of September each year on ucas.com and commonapp.org
Postgraduate Taught/Masters applications open in October each year on our website.
Postgraduate Research/PhD applications are open all year round and you can apply on our website.
Yes, you can apply before you finish your current academic qualifications.
We will make you a Conditional offer of Admission based on your current studies.
Yes, you are welcome to apply through an agent.
Our Agent partners are listed on the webpage for your country/region .
A conditional offer means you have a place, but you still need to meet the requirements – usually exam results.
An unconditional offer means you have a place at the University.
Applicants should submit their documents on the Applicant Self Service portal.
If you have applied via CommonApp, please email your documents to the named person on your offer letter.
To request a deferral, please complete the online enquiry form .
Please visit our visa pages.
Unconditional Firm students should receive their CAS via email by mid-July (September entry) or mid-November (January entry).
Students who become Unconditional Firm later than mid-July will receive their CAS within 5-10 business days.
This will happen automatically, and you do not need to request it.
Conditional students will receive their CAS after they become Unconditional Firm.
Please visit our EU student webpages for the most up-to-date information.
It is possible to book your flights before getting your visa but we strongly advise against it.
On 11 September 2019 the UK Government announced the creation of a new immigration route which will enable international students to remain in the UK for two years after they have completed their studies.
Further information about the Graduate Immigration Route.
Self-funding students should visit how to pay your tuition fees.
Your first rent payment is not due until October, giving you time to sort out your finances when you arrive in Glasgow.
Visit the accommodation pages for more information.
Advice on private accommodation in Glasgow.
Also, you may want to consider private student housing in Glasgow .
Registration opens in August.
The date varies depending on the programme you are studying.
You will be emailed directly by your School when registration is open.
We don’t recommend shipping your belongings over unless the items are an absolute necessity to you.
The vast majority of items can be bought cheaply in Glasgow so one suitcase worth of clothing (etc) will be enough.
Healthcare in the UK.
Students cannot join a bank until they have moved into their accommodation as the bank with need a UK address and proof of student status.
We cannot recommend a particular company but most major UK banks have branches on Byres Road and Dumbarton Road.
See also: Banking
There are four network providers in the UK, with many smaller networks who 'piggyback' on the bigger networks’ signal.
According to Ofcom (Independent Regulator) all of these networks provide a good signal in Glasgow.
Research the best deal for you online, speak to local friends or shop on Byres Road or Buchanan Street to find the network for you.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/international-info-sessions-ug:
During the session we can answer questions on our degree programmes, how to apply, scholarship opportunities, accommodation and student life in Glasgow.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/visasandimmigration:
Find information about visas for studying in the UK.
General information about the process of applying for a student visa
You need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Study (CAS) before you apply for a student visa.
Changes to your studies or personal details can impact your visa.
There are rules for working while you study or after you study, depending on your visa.
Guidance on travelling during or after your studies.
Current students can book an online or in-person appointment to speak to an International Student Support advisor or submit an enquiry on the UofG Helpdesk.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/explore/maps/howtogethere:
View Larger Map
Glasgow International Airport
Glasgow Prestwick Airport
Edinburgh International Airport
Buchanan Bus Station is the main terminus for long distance coaches and is close to Buchanan Street subway station.
Timetables at www.travelinescotland.com
Intercity links to all major cities.
Frequent services to Edinburgh (50 minutes) and London (5 hours).
There are two city-centre terminals, Glasgow Queen Street and Glasgow Central (served by Buchanan St and St Enoch subway stations respectively).
Motorway links provide access to major UK cities.
Visit Google Maps for maps and directions.
From Carlisle, Newcastle and the south, exit M74 on to the M73, joining the M8 at the Old Monkland junction.
M8 exits for the University are J18 if travelling from the south, Edinburgh and the north and J19 if coming from Glasgow Airport and the west.
Other main routes serving the University include Great Western Road (A82, north of campus), Clydeside Expressway (A814, south) and Byres Road (B808, west).
On campus parking is limited to permit holders.
Car parking in the areas around the campus is extremely difficult.
There are various pay & display parking spaces around the local Byres Road and Kelvin Way areas but spaces are limited.
You may want to consider using the city's Subway Park & Ride scheme.
This service costs around £5 and Kelvinbridge subway station has parking which is only 5 minutes walk away.
Also see Getting around Glasgow

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/schools/mlc/eas:
English for Academic Study supports students and staff whose first language is not English.
We also provide English Language teacher training.
Sign up for one of our In-sessional courses or workshops
We offer courses for aspiring & experienced English language teachers

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/bookinganappointmentwithanissadviser:
Appointments
Current registered international students can book a 1-1 eVisa, welfare, or immigration & visa advice appointment through our booking page.
Appointments are available online via Microsoft Teams or in person at the Fraser Building, Pod 6.
During your appointment, you can discuss welfare concerns or get immigration advice and visa application checks (for in-UK student and dependant visa extension applications only).
**if you book an online appointment with an adviser you will receive a confirmation email which contains the link to access the meeting.
**Please ensure you enter your email address accurately**.
If you have any issues with the system please do contact us submit your enquiry via the UofG Helpdesk .
This is the fastest and most effective way to contact our team.
Book an in-person appointment
Book an online appointment

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/nationalinsurancenumber:
A National Insurance (NIN) Number is a personal number which is used to record your National Insurance contributions.
You can only apply for a National Insurance Number once you have arrived in the UK:
To apply:
Please note: It can take up to 16 weeks, after you prove your identity, to receive your National Insurance Number.
You can start work however before you receive the National Insurance number if you can prove you have the right to work in the UK.
You can see information on the work conditions for Student and Tier 4 Visa holders discussed in the section above.
There is no charge to apply for / obtain a National Insurance Number.
For full details on the application process, please see the gov.uk webpages

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/quicktipsandfrequentlyaskedquestions:
Here are some top tips and frequently asked questions we think will help provide you with a clear understanding of Visa/Immigration and Practical Information on living in the UK.
Check if you need a visa using the UK government webpage .
We have lots of information on everything related to applying for a visa on our Visas and Immigration webpages .
You can learn more about applying for Dependant visas for your family on our Dependant Visa webpages .
Students who are studying for over 6 months in the UK, will need to apply for a Student Visa .
A Student who will study for less than 6 months has the option of choosing the Standard Visitor Visa or Student visa.
Please visit our webpages for more guidance and support through these visa options to study at UofG.
Erasmus Mundus students typically are not eligible to obtain Student visas for their programme and will need to come to the UK as a Visitor (Visitor visa or ETA).
Please speak with your Programme Coordinator if you believe you require a Student visa.*
Every student must pay the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) as part of their Student Visa application .
Y ou can check how much to expect to pay here - Calculate your immigration health surcharge
Most students will receive a visa sticker (visa vignette) in their passport once their Student visa application has been approved.
This visa sticker will allow you to enter the UK.
Some students will recieive an eVisa instead.
Please check your UKVI decision email once your Student visa application has been successful.
Please read more about this on Applying for a Student visa outside the UK.
It is important that you check all the details are correct on your visa as soon as you receive it.
If you have been issued a visa sticker (visa vignette), please check the information in the UKVI visa decision email is all correct, as these details usually match the information that will be printed on the biometric residence permit (BRP) which you will collect after you arrive in the UK.
If you have been issued an eVisa , make sure that the online checking system shows the correct details for you, including the type of leave you have applied for.
For those with BRP cards expiring on 31 December 2024, the UKVI has published eVisa guidance about the transition from BRPs to online immigration status alongside information about the plan to phase out the use of physical documents within the immigration system by the end of 2024.
We have more information and support on our eVisa webpages as well to clarify eVisas for you.
You must wait until your visa vignette is issued and placed in your passport, or until your digital eVisa status is issued, before you can travel to the UK.
Do not travel to the UK before receiving your Student visa, or before it's start date.
As a Student visa sponsor, the University must comply with the immigration rules and guidance published by the Home Office.
One of our sponsor duties is to monitor attendance and act accordingly if a student reaches our minimum threshold of non engagement (please see more information about this on the Immigration Compliance webpages ).
You will need to have a tuberculosis (TB) test if you're coming to the UK for more than 6 months and are a resident of certain countries.
Please see the TB test government webpage for more information on this.
If the A dmissions Team says ATAS is required , apply for ATAS certificate as soon as possible.
You must apply for the ATAS certificate and receive this in time to submit this with your other visa application documents, and to be able to start your course at UoG .
You can find more information about visa registration on the Immigration Compliance Visa Registration webpages .
Please read our webpages on Applying for a Student Visa inside the UK .
The UK has a long reputation for having very good academic standards in higher education and for being a welcoming place to study.
It’s also a diverse place with a range of natural beauty and other attractions.
Scotland is a diverse place with an abundance of natural beauty and a rich cultural heritage, which will attract you to the whole country whilst living here.
Glasgow is a dynamic and culturally rich city known for its industrial heritage, Victorian architecture and thriving arts and music scene.
It's also the gateway to Scotland's great outdoors, with beaches, castles and rugged coastlines to discover.
Inernational Student Support do not offer advice or support with looking for accommodation.
Please see information provided by our Accommodation Services at UofG.
You can even chat with them in Unibuddy , as well as read about current students' experience.
You can also find great support from the SRC (Student's Representative Council) on information around renting in the private sector in Glasgow.
If you don’t have someone who can serve as your guarantor then there are services that can act as a guarantor for you.
There are private schemes that you can find online.
UofG also has its own gaurantor scheme that you can look into to see if you qualify.
You will need to check the Scholarship webpages to search for scholarship opportunites and contact the scholarship provider directly for more information.
The SRC has great information about different public transport links in Glasgow.
Transport for Scotland have provided free bus travel for under 22s.
Find out more information about this on their webpages - Free Bus Travel Scheme.
If you are travelling to another country from the UK, please check GOV.UK to see if there are entry requirements for any countries you're travelling to.
If you are travelling to the Schengen Area, our team are unable to advise or check applications for Schengen Visas, but we can offer information and general Schengen Visa guidance on our webpages.
ATAS - Academic Technology Approval Scheme - A certificate needed for applicable overseas students and researchers to study certain sensitive subjects in the UK.
BRP - Biometric Resident Permit - A card showing your immigration status * UKVI are phasing this phyiscal document out from 2025 onwards, you can read more about eVisas on our eVisa webpage .
*
CAS - Confirmation of Acceptance Studies
Curtailment - The curtailment of visa permission means that the expiry date of your Student visa is curtailed (or cut short) by the UKVI Home Office, effectively giving you a new, earlier visa end date.
You can find out scenarios of when this might happen to you on our Changes to Studies webpages .
Entry Clearance - This is the name for a visa issued overseas to enable a foreign national to travel to the UK.
It is in the form of a sticker placed in a passport by a British Embassy or High Commission.
If you entry clearance has an incorrect endorsement, please look on UKVI webpages on what to do in this situation.
EU (European Union) - The EU is a group of 27 countries in Europe with a unique economic and political union between eachother.
eVisa - An eVisa is an online record of your immigration status and the conditions of your permission to enter or stay in the UK.
IHS - The Immigration Health Surcharge is a fee that you pay at the same time as making your visa application in order to access secondary medical care through the National Health Service.
UKCISA ( UK Council for International Student Affairs ) - The UK's national advisory body serving the interests of international students and those who work with them.
UKVI ( UK Visas and Immigration part of the Home Office ) - opertates the UK visa system and is responsible for making millions of decisions every year about who has the right to visit or stay in the UK.
Visa nationals - People who always require entry clearance to enter the UK, even for a short visit.
Visitor Visa - This is a visa which is issued to people coming to the UK for tourism, business, study (on a course at UofG for less than 6 months) and other permitted activities.
You can only apply from outside the UK and it's prohibited to work on a Visitor visa .

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/eventsschedule20242025:
Our next International Student Welcome will take place between Saturday 4 January - Tuesday 14 January 2025 (**Schedule to change**).
You can find the International Student Welcome schedule here: International Welcome Schedule

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/internationalstudentwelcome/arriving-at-glasgow-airport:
Below you will find information about your arrival at Glasgow Airport, Immigration, and how to travel from Glasgow Airport to Glasgow City Centre and the west end where the University is situated.
Please complete this short form with your flight arrival details.
UK Border Force and Airport colleagues have requested all International Students arriving into Glasgow Airport to complete this short form.
Higher levels of staffing can then be arranged during busy periods allowing for a smoother arrival process.
By completing this form, you are consenting to sharing your arrival details with Glasgow Airport.
All international students arriving on busy flights will be processed through immigration together so you may experience some delays on arrival.
Please ensure you have your supporting documents (that you used to apply for your visa) in your hand luggage or easily accessible on your phone or tablet.
Before arriving into the Glasgow International Airport, please read more about what you are allowed to bring and what NOT to bring into the UK.
Please read the UKCISA guidance about this here.
Glasgow International Airport is located 8 miles from the Glasgow city centre.
Please note there is no train station at Glasgow Airport.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/whatwedo/ifn:
The University of Glasgow warmly welcomes the families of our international students.
The International Family Network (IFN) was created to provide you and your family with access to the information you need when settling into life in Glasgow.
We aim to create a community for international families to support each other by hosting events and day trips.
Trips around Glasgow and surrounding cities
Our trips are a great opportunity to meet and travel with other families and to see different places of interest around Scotland.
Past events have included day trips to Culzean Castle and Country Park, New Lanark World Heritage Site, and a visit to Santas Grotto - with presents!
IFN Welcome Event
Each semester we have an IFN Welcome for our new international students where we will discuss some of the key things to settling in to life in Glasgow.
You can find out important formation about schools and childcare (e.g.
nursery), using NHS services, driving and about Glasgow Life.
"Huge Thanks to the team that put together the Culzean Castle trip!
It was a rewarding experience for me and my family.
My 4 year old told me on our way back...
"Mummy am so happy" and when I asked why, he said because I had fun all day and I played ball."
"I want to say my sincere gratitude to you and your very kind colleagues for the day trip to Culzean Castle.
It was a very nice experience for me and my family.
Amazing nature, fresh air, and of course, strong wind at the beginning of the trip.
Especially it was a great opportunity for my wife, who is alone in Glasgow, to expand her social network."
To become part of our International Family Network email us at
internationalstudentsupport@glasgow.ac.uk
stating how many dependents you have with you, and their relation to you (spouse, child)
You can also visit us on instagram

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/upcomingevents:
Tue, 04 Feb 2025 14:46:00 GMT
Find out more about our new International Student Buddying Scheme.
Tue, 01 Jul 2025 10:00:00 BST
International Student Support and The Hunterian are hosting a fun day of family-friendly activities!
Wed, 09 Jul 2025 09:39:52 BST
View our International Student September Welcome.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/tier4/visaregistration:
Visa Registration: For New Students
Before you become an official University of Glasgow student, you must complete Visa Registration .
The University is required to check the immigration status for all students who are not nationals of the UK or Ireland, including home fee payers and those who do not require a Student Visa.
If you are starting your UofG programme at the beginning of the 2025-26 academic year, Visa Registration opens on Tuesday 9th September.
Book your appointment here
Let's get started on your Visa Registration journey!
Identify yourself below and ensure you complete the necessary steps to becoming an official University of Glasgow student.
This includes ‘non-visa nationals’ who were able to enter the UK using the Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA)
Make sure your Visa Registration Appointment is at least one working day after you provide us with your Share Code to allow sufficient time to update your Student Record.
Important notice for Student Visa applicants travelling to the UK Do not attempt to travel to the UK before your visa has been fully issued, and do not use the Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) in place of a Student Visa.
This will not allow you to study your programme.
Additionally, after your visa is issued, ensure you only travel to the UK on or after the visa start date.
Travelling before your visa is approved and valid may cause you to be denied boarding onto your flight, or refused entry to the UK.
Ensure that you apply for your new visa before the current visa expires, or no later than 6 weeks after the start date of your new programme; whichever is the earlier date.
If you previously studied at a different UK insitution or GIC, but you have left the UK and applied for your visa outside the UK, please follow the instructions above under "I applied for my visa outside the UK and it has been issued as an eVisa".
Important note for Graduate Route Visa Holders: this visa type does not permit study.
Please ensure you apply for a Student Visa using your CAS in plenty of time before your course starts, as you will not be able to start studying until you have your Student Visa.
Other non-Student Visa immigration status:
If you are studying at the School of Social & Environmental Sustainability in Dumfries, there will be an opportunity to book in for the visa registration day in Dumfries.
Please check back here in September for information about how to book.
Alternatively, if you will be passing through Glasgow on your way and would rather book your in-person visa registration appointment in Glasgow, you can do so using this booking link .
Visit the School of Social & Environmental Sustainability webpages

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/tier4/checkins:
Student Check-Ins: For Current Students
Your status at the University of Glasgow will be monitored at two re-registration check-ins during the academic year.
This is in addition to attendance and engagement on your programme of study, which is monitored by your School or College.
Why is this necessary?
All Universities are required to hold up to date visa, passport and contact information for their student visa holders and other students who have immigration status in the UK.
These check-ins are done online using the UofG Helpdesk, and take place near the start of each semester.
When is my next re-registration check-in?
The immigration compliance team will email you to invite you to complete your check-in.
Please check your student email and spam regularly for this correspondence near the start of each semester.
If you are a new student who completed Visa Registration in September, you will not need to complete a check-in in semester 1 as well.
The next check-in for you will be in semester 2.
What happens if I fail to complete the Check-in?
If you miss the check-in and do not have a valid reason, your school/college will be notified and an overall review of your attendance/engagement on your programme will be done to determine:
If you hold a Student Visa/Tier 4 visa and you are withdrawn, UofG will notify the Home Office who will curtail this visa and advise you to leave the UK.
→ Returning* Students: October
→ Tier 4 Students: January
→ PGT Students: June
* Returning = students returning to the University for the next year of their programme.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/tier4/graduatevisa:
Graduate Visa
The Graduate Visa allows students who have successfully completed their degree programme at the University of Glasgow on a Student Visa or Tier 4 visa to obtain a Visa to work in the UK after their studies.
Before you can submit your Graduate Visa application, the University has to inform UKVI that you have successfully completed your degree programme.
After your School Exam Board meets and confirms your Final Award and Degree Classification, your School will update your MyCampus Student Record with this information.
After your Final Award is confirmed by your School, the Immigration Compliance Team will report your successful completion to UKVI.
This may take up to one week .
When UKVI have been notified, you will receive an email confirmation from the University.
Please wait until after you receive this email before submitting your Graduate Visa Application.
Applying for your Visa before receiving the email may result in your Visa being refused.
Concerned that your current Visa may expire before you need to submit your Graduate Visa Application?
Contact the International Student Support Team
If you have received notification of your Final Award from your School, but haven't heard from the Immigration Compliance Team, you may not be eligible for a Graduate Visa, and therefore, we may not have reported your completion to UKVI.
This may apply if:
→ You did not study your programme in-person in the UK with a Student Visa or Tier 4 Visa (not applicable if you had short periods of approved absence, placements, or Study Abroad periods);
→ You have been awarded a Postgraduate Diploma or Postgraduate Certificate.
With the exception of the Diploma in Professional Legal Practice and the PGDE, these are not eligible for the Graduate Visa.
Please see UKVI's webpage for more information.
→ Your Visa has expired or we don't have a copy of your current Visa on our records.
Still think you're eligible but haven't heard from us?
Let us know!

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/meettheteam:
Melanie Sangha International Student Advisor
Lisa Milne
International Student Advisor
Monica Randall
David Schiftan
Assistant International Student Advisor

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/termsandconditions:
Below is the International Student Support privacy notice.
You can also see the UoG's general privacy notice for students here .
The University of Glasgow will be what’s known as the ‘Data Controller’ of your personal data processed in relation to advice and information you receive from International Student Support.
This privacy notice will explain how The University of Glasgow will process your personal data.
We are collecting your basic personal data such as name, date of birth, student number, nationality, visa details and contact details in order create a record of your appointment and to provide you with advice at your appointment and any follow up information or advice.
We will only collect data that we need in order to provide and oversee this service to you.
In this instance, the legal basis is Consent.
As a Student sponsor and under the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (Part V Exemption: Educational Institutions and Health Sector Bodies) Order 2001, the University is exempt from the requirement to register with the Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner (OISC), however, as providers of immigration advice, the International Student Advisers must adhere to the OISC’s code of standards and guidance.
All the personal data you submit is processed by staff at the University of Glasgow in the United Kingdom.
Should we need to contact UK Visas & Immigration on your behalf, we will require additional consent from you.
Your data and the record of the appointment will be retained by the University for 6 years.
After this time, it will be securely deleted.
You can request access to, or copies of, the information we process about you at any time.
If at any point you believe that the information we process relating to you is incorrect, you can request to see this information and may in some instances request to have it restricted, corrected or erased.
The International Student Advisers provide free and confidential advice to current and prospective students, recent graduates on range of issues including immigration and visa advice, information on some practical issues for international students when living in the UK and Scottish culture.
The Advisers are Lisa Milne (International Student Adviser) Melanie Sangha (International Student Adviser) Monica Randall (International Student Advisor) and David Schiftan (Assistant International Adviser).
The Advisers are the only designated university staff for immigration advice at the University of Glasgow.
Common immigration enquiries include applying for a Student visa, applying for a Standard Visitor Visa for study, regulations related to work during and after study, dependant visas (of students), and switching immigration status to Student or Graduate Visa.
They are experienced and qualified to provide immigration advice and services and are regulated by the Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner (OISC).
The OISC is an independent organisation which sets standards with which the Advisers must comply.
Find out more about OISC
The University of Glasgow is a member of UKCISA: T he UK Council for International Student Affairs and as such, the Advisers obtain support in the form of training, regular briefings and access to the UKCISA telephone advice line.
The Advisers will offer advice in good faith, based on the information provided to them by you.
They will make every effort to ensure that the advice offered is accurate but as immigration regulations, procedures and contact information can frequently change, it is important that you also refer to the UK Visas & Immigration and UKCISA websites for up to date information.
The University of Glasgow cannot accept responsibility for visa applications which are returned as invalid or are refused.
The Advisers reserve the right not to offer advice or accept visa extension applications if they believe that they have been given false or incomplete information or if the level of advice requested goes beyond their competency.
In this circumstance the Advisers will refer you to other specialist agencies or practitioners.
All users of the service have the right to confidentiality - please refer to the information above, the Student Contract and University's Privacy Notice.
In relation to immigration advice, the OISC’s Code of Standards also requires that advisers keep their clients’ affairs confidential.
No information regarding a student or his/her dependant will be given directly or indirectly to any third party who is not a member of the International Student Support team, without that student/family member’s consent to the disclosure of such information.
No information will be given to any external agency without the student's/their dependant's consent unless the provision of such information is required by law.
Information may be disclosed without consent if, in the Adviser’s judgment, there is risk of immediate physical danger to the client or others.
In circumstances where information has to be shared, the Advisers will ensure that such discussions take place in an appropriate environment.
International Student Support keeps statistical records relating to advice service use, to enable us to monitor the demand for the service, and to identify any practical or policy issues related to the advice services.
It is the responsibility of the advice service staff to ensure that all statistical records given to third parties are produced in an anonymous form, so that individuals cannot be recognised.
Advice service staff will ensure that all individual case records are locked securely at the end of each working day and that all computer records are held securely and are appropriately protected.
The University ensures that all advice is given in an office which has private space at least large enough for a student/family member with an interpreter or child in a pushchair or for a person using a wheelchair to be accommodated with the door closed.
If advice staff wish to contact or correspond with you, they are responsible for confirming with you that it is acceptable for them to call or write to you at home or work in relation to your case.
All staff must ensure they make no reference to the purpose of the call when making telephone contact through third parties.
We welcome your feedback on the service you receive from us and suggestions for how we might improve and develop the service we provide.
If you have a complaint regarding our service please let us know and we will do our best to resolve the matter swiftly and informally.
However, if you are not satisfied with the response your receive, you may follow the University Complaints Procedure.
Find out more about the University complaints procedure
Finally if you have a complaint specifically related to immigration advice received, you can make a complaint to the Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner (OISC).
Find more information about making a complaint to OISC
USEFUL CONTACTS FOR IMMIGRATION ADVICE AND INFORMATION:
UKCISA: The UK Council for International Student Affairs is the national organisation which gives advice to international students studying in the UK.
They also operate a free student advice line.
Tel: +44 20 7788 9214 Monday to Friday 1300 - 1600
Scottish Refugee Council is an independent charity dedicated to providing advice, information and assistance to asylum seekers and refugees living in Scotland.
Address: 6th Floor, Portland House, 17 Renfield Street, Glasgow.
G2 5AH.
Tel: +44 (0) 141 248 9799

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/support/contact:
Current students can book an online or in-person appointment to speak to an International Student Support advisor.
If you are not a current student at the University of Glasgow, you can get in touch with the International Recruitment team .
They have country specific representatives who can answer your questions.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/partnershipprogrammes/universityofbologna:
The University of Bologna is a public research university in Bologna, Italy.
Founded in 1088 by an organised guild of students, it is the oldest university in continuous operation in the world, and the first degree-awarding institution of higher learning.
At its foundation, the word universitas was first coined.
Students in their second year of the Laurea in Scienze Statistiche may apply to spend their third year in the honours (4 th ) year of the BSc (Hons) Statistics in Glasgow.
Students in their second year of the BSc (Hons) Statistics in Glasgow may apply to spend their third year in the second year of the Laurea in Scienze Statistiche in Bologna, returning to Glasgow for their final (4 th ) year of study.
Students will receive degrees from both universities.
Students will continue to pay tuition fees to their home university throughout the programme.
The professor in charge of the double degree exchange is Professor Angela Montanari.
For admissions enquiries please email angela.montanari@unibo.it
For admissions enquiries at Glasgow please email mayetri.gupta@glasgow.ac.uk
MyGlasgow

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/partnershipprogrammes/buct:
Beijing University of Chemical Technology (BUCT) is affiliated to the Ministry of Education.
As one of China's key institutions of higher learning, BUCT has developed from an institution of scientific specialties to a comprehensive university with a core curriculum of science, engineering, economic management, languages and other liberal arts.
The University of Glasgow is in partnership with BUCT to allow students studying Chemistry, Applied Chemistry or Energy Chemistry to enter into Level 3 (Honours) of the BSc (Hons) Chemistry.
Selected students will be awarded the University of Glasgow-BUCT Scholarship which is equivalent to 20 per cent of the annual tuition fee.
BUCT students can find out about their eligibility to gain entry to the following programmes at the University of Glasgow Level 3 (Honours):
For admission enquiries in Glasgow email emily.draper@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/partnershipprogrammes/buid:
Established in 2003 and accredited by UAE Ministry of Education, BUiD offers undergraduate programmes in Business, Engineering and Computing Science.
The University of Glasgow is in partnership with BUiD to enable students in selected Computing Science programmes, who have successfully completed two years of study, to gain entry to Level 3 (Honours) of selected undergraduate programmes at the University of Glasgow.
Selected students will be awarded the University of Glasgow-BUiD Scholarship which is equivalent to 20 per cent of the annual tuition fee.
BUiD students with average grades of 65% can find out about their eligibility to gain entry to the following programmes at the University of Glasgow:
compsci-partnerships @glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/partnershipprogrammes/universitasgadjahmada:
Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) and University of Glasgow have entered an agreement so that students can start start their masters degrees at UGM and spend the second year of their masters at the University of Glasgow.
UGM was founded in 1949 and the university's vision is:
To be excellent and innovative world class university, imbued with nation’s cultural values based on Pancasila as the state ideology and dedicated to the nation’s interest and humanity.
UGM's mission is:
To carry out education, research and community service as well as preservation and development of knowledge that is excellent and useful for society.
As of 2023, UGM is equipped with 18 Faculties, 2 Schools, 287 Study Programs, 125 Joint/Double Degrees, and  23 Research Centres.
UGM also has in total of 4336 faculty staffs, consisting of 374 professors, 584 associate professors, 1523 assistant professors, 737 lecturers, 337 others, and total student number of 61440.
As of 2022/2023, UGM has produced 19120 publications, 13285 citations, and many more.
As a leading university in Indonesia, UGM has partnered with 48 countries around the world, with a total number of 638 collaborations.
Based on QS World University Rankings 2024, UGM is placed #263.
Students taking part in the dual-masters programmes will be awarded a scholarship worth 20 per cent of the relevant international tuition fee for the year in which they commence their degree.
The dual masters programmes on offer are:
Make an enquiry to the Admissions Team

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/partnershipprogrammes/universitasindonesia:
Universitas Indonesia (UI) is Indonesia’s top-ranking university and it was formed in 1849 where UI represented an educational institution with the oldest history in Asia.
To this day, UI continues to play an important role at the national and global levels.
UI has 17 Faculties and a mission to become an educational institution that is superior and of world standard quality.
It is a research-led university making a contribution to Indonesia and is committed to becoming one of the Nation’s Teachers through the implementation of the Higher Education Tridharma.
This is a driving force for UI to continue to play an active role and contribute to overcoming the nation’s problems.
The University of Glasgow and Universitas Indonesia have develop dual undergraduate degree programmes in the James Watt School of Engineering.
These programmes allow students to obtain degrees from both institutions, completing years 1 and 2 in Indonesia and years 3 and 4 in Glasgow.
Students participating in the dual-degree programme will be awarded the University of Glasgow Partner Scholarship which is worth 20% of the relevant international tuition fee.
Graduates of UI who wish to pursue a masters degree (excluding collaborative degrees) in the College of Science and Engineering will be awarded the University of Glasgow Partner Alumni Scholarship which is worth 15% of the relevant international tuition fee.
Students should apply directly to UI for entry to Level 1 of the dual-degree programmes.
Apply for entry from Level 3 in Glasgow to the following dual-degree programmes:
For queries about the dual degree programmes email: Eng-partnerships@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/partnershipprogrammes/kmitl:
King Mongkut’s Institute of Technology (KMITL) was created in 1971 by amalgamation of several technical colleges, previously established in cooperation between Thailand and Japan, and achieved full university status in 1986.
KMITL is named after a 19th century king who was instrumental in introducing science and technology into Thailand.
It is located on a campus in the district of Ladkrabang in Bangkok.
KMITL’s vision is "to be a premier education institute with emphasis on research in science and technology: creating innovation and knowledge through wisdom and arts for the nation's development toward international success".
In 2010, the University of Glasgow signed a partnership agreement with KMITL’s International College.
This partnership allows students who successfully complete two years of study on recognised international programmes at KMITL to gain entry to Level 3 (Honours) of selected programmes at the University of Glasgow.
Successful applicants are awarded the University of Glasgow – KMITL scholarship which is worth 20 per cent of the relevant international tuition fee.
If successful in your application, you will receive a notification of how this scholarship is applied.
KMITL students can find out about their eligibility to gain entry to Level 3 (Honours) of the following programmes at the University of Glasgow:
My time at the University of Glasgow has been life changing.
The university offered me many interesting modules to choose from, along with the opportunities to work on projects with world-class academics and experienced software engineers in the industry.
Throughout my degree, I received tremendous amount of educational and mental support from the university staffs, the counselling service, and the career service.
There were many student societies and clubs at UofG, which brought me many wonderful friends to explore the beautiful Scotland with.
At the end, I left the University of Glasgow with a well-respected degree, head full of knowledge, treasured friendships, and many happy memories of my time in Glasgow’s best university.
Karnbongkot Boonriong, BSc Software Engineering graduate ( Visit LinkedIn Profile )
For queries about Biomedical Engineering email: eng-partnerships@glasgow.ac.uk
For queries about Computing Science email: compsci-partnerships@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/partnershipprogrammes/universityoftianjin:
Students may also apply to spend a year abroad at Glasgow in either 3 rd or 4 th year.
Tianjin University is the oldest institution of higher education in the modern history of China.
Founded in 1895 as Peiyang University, Tianjin University’s 128-year history is the epitome of the progress of modern Chinese higher education, embodying the Chinese people’s indomitability through challenging times.
During its growth spanning three centuries, the University has been a pioneer in several fields, from the first aero engine in China to the first Hydraulics Laboratory established in China.
T he University of Glasgow signed a partnership agreement with Tianjin University to co-operate on programmes in engineering .
This partnership allows students who successfully complete two years of study on recognised programmes at Tianjin to gain entry to Level 3 (Honours) of selected programmes at the University of Glasgow.
See the Tianjin University website for further information about the collaboration.
Successful applicants are awarded the University of Glasgow – Tianjin scholarship which is worth 20 per cent of the relevant international tuition fee.
Tianjin University students can find out about their eligibility to gain entry to the following programmes at the University of Glasgow Level 3 (Honours):
eng-partnerships@glasgow.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/international/partnershipprogrammes/zuel:
With a history dating back to 1948 in May 2000, Zhongnan Institute of Politics and Law and Zhongnan University of Finance and Economics merged to form Zhongnan University of Economics and Law (ZUEL).
In 2011 the University of Glasgow entered a partnership with ZUEL to enable students who have successfully completed two years of study on recognised programmes at ZUEL to gain entry at Level 3 (Honours) on selected BSc programmes in the School of Mathematics and Statistics.
Successful applicants are awarded the University of Glasgow – ZUEL scholarship with a value of 20 per cent of the annual tuition fee at the University of Glasgow.
Successful applicants will be notified of this award when they receive their letter of acceptance.
ZUEL students can find out about their eligibility to gain entry to the following programmes at the University of Glasgow Level 3 (Honours):
The quality of students we look for is very high and the University of Glasgow is a great resource for finding those high-calibre students for both intern placements and full-time graduate opportunities.
JP Morgan Scotland
Contact admissions

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/eu/staff:
The University is working to ensure it keeps its staff informed as well as supported through the uncertainty as the UK moves towards leaving the EU.
The University currently employs over 1100 non-UK EEA staff which represents circa 14.5% of our staff.
24% of our researchers are from non-UK EEA countries and Switzerland.
The information presented here is accurate at the time of publishing, however if you have any specific concerns you can seek further guidance from your local HR Team:
We understand that not everyone will have access to an Android device that has the required capability to download the EU Exit: ID Document Check app .
You can make an appointment to access the University’s Android tablets by emailing your local HR team.
The Androids are available for you and your immediate family member(s) to use – please confirm how many family member(s) will require use of the device in your email to the HR team.
The University will ask you to confirm the family member’s relationship with you at the time of using the device.
This information will be not be retained.
Your local HR team will endeavour to offer you an appointment to fit the needs of your timetable and that of your family.
The service is only available between 09.00 and 17.00.
Details of your local HR team can be found below:
The devices should only be used for the Identity Verification Stage of the process .
Once this stage is complete, you are able to continue your application using a PC or laptop.
Please note that due to the current social distancing measures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the access to Android devices at the University of Glasgow campus is temporarily suspended.
The Government has confirmed its intention for EU citizens living in the UK, along with their family members, to stay and continue their lives with the same access to work, study, benefits and public services that they enjoy now.
It also allows existing close family members living overseas to join resident EU citizens in the future.
The EU Settlement Scheme will deliver the Government's commitment to guarantee the rights of EU citizens living in the UK.
To obtain Settlement, non-UK EU citizens, EEA nationals and Swiss nationals and their family members are required to apply for Settled status/Indefinite Leave to Remain .
Non-UK EU citizens and citizens of Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein and their families will have to demonstrate having been resident in the UK for five years .
Those who cannot evidence five years of residency, may apply for pre-Settled status and make a further application for Settled status once they have achieved five years of residency.
Following a number of pilots to test the Scheme, the EU Settlement Scheme is now fully live and open to all non-UK EU nationals, Swiss nationals and nationals from Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein as well as their family members.
The scheme is also open to non-EU family members of EU citizens.
Irish nationals are not required to apply for Settled status but may do so if they wish.
All you require to know about the EU Settlement Scheme can be accessed by clicking on the link below: UK Government - EU Settlement Scheme
The application process continues the three main stages of the previous pilot schemes:
You will need to:
If you are a non-EU citizen you may be required to provide evidence that you are a family member of an EU citizen.
Further information on applying can be found at: UK Government - EU Settlement Scheme, Evidence of a Relationship to an EU Citizen
Applications to the Scheme are free – you will not be charged.
The deadline for applying to the Scheme is 30 June 2021 , provided you have started residing in the UK by 31 December 2020.
Please refer to the following link for the latest information on processing times: UK Government EU Settlement Scheme - Application Processing Times
If you need help or information about your application, you can contact the EU Settlement Resolution Centre helpline.
Please note that the Scheme is independent of the University of Glasgow and the HR Team is unable to respond to any queries regarding individual applications.
EU Settlement Resolution Centre Telephone: 0300 123 7379 Monday to Friday, 8am to 8pm Saturday and Sunday, 9:30am to 4:30pm EU Settlement Scheme contact form Find out about call charges
EU Settlement Resolution Centre Telephone: +44 203 080 0010 Monday to Friday 8:00am to 8:00pm Saturday and Sunday 9:30am to 4:30pm EU Settlement Scheme contact form
You can get support over the phone or in person if you need help filling in the settlement scheme application form online.
Assisted Digital Support
You can also get Assisted Digital support to use the EU Settlement Scheme online application form if you’re in the UK and do not have the appropriate access, skills or confidence to complete the form.
You will need to be able to access the ID App to use this service.
Phone: 03333 445 675 Text message: text the word “VISA” to 07537 416 944 Monday to Friday 9am to 6pm Saturday 9am to 4pm
These pages were last updated on 1 October 2021.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/study/eu/scholarships:
EU Scholarships
All EU students are eligible for these scholarships, and you must hold EU fee status to receive the scholarship.
Search our degrees
Chat to our staff & students
Our EU Welcome Award is a £5,000 tuition fee discount per year of study to new, incoming EU students to the University of Glasgow.
Highly qualified applicants from the EU will still be eligible for the Undergraduate Excellence Scholarship of £7,000 per year of study if they meet the eligibility criteria.
Applicants holding offers will be automatically assessed for this scholarship based on academic merit.
Applicants who do not meet the criteria will automatically be offered the EU Welcome Award and will be notified within two weeks of receiving an offer.
Please note that it is not possible to combine either the EU Welcome Award or Undergraduate Excellence Scholarship with any other University of Glasgow Scholarship.
EU Welcome Award
Undergraduate Excellence Scholarship
If you are currently already holding an offer to study with the University of Glasgow, your existing application will be reviewed, and you will receive separate notification if you are eligible for either award.
If you meet the eligibility criteria for the Undergraduate Excellence Scholarship, you will receive a scholarship offer letter.
If you do not meet the criteria but are eligible for the automatic EU Welcome Award, we will notify you separately and the award will be applied at registration, no separate application is required.
You should also ensure that the scholarship you receive from the University is detailed on the CAS statement you will use to apply for a student visa.
Our EU Welcome Award is an automatic £5,000 tuition fee discount to new, incoming EU students enrolling on an eligible postgraduate taught programme.
Highly qualified applicants from the EU will be eligible for the Vice Chancellor EU Award which is a tuition fee discount of between £8,000-£12,000.
The amount you are awarded depends on the programme you are applying for.
Applicants holding offers will be automatically assessed for this award based on academic merit.
Applicants who do not meet the criteria will automatically be offered the EU Welcome Award and will be notified within two weeks of receiving an offer.
Please note that it is not possible to combine either the EU Welcome Award or Vice Chancellor EU Award with any other University of Glasgow Scholarship.
Vice Chancellor EU Award
If you meet the academic criteria for the Vice Chancellor EU Award, you will receive a scholarship offer letter.
If you do not meet the criteria but are eligible for the automatic EU Welcome Award, we will notify you separately and the award will be applied at registration.

New sentences found on https://gla.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees/eufees:
The tuition fee you pay will vary depending on your fee status and your programme.
For many applicants, your fee status is the same as your current country of residence.
However, not all cases are this straightforward.
We use the information you provide on your application to determine your fee status, and will confirm this with you after you submit your application.
Applicants will be classed as EU fee status if:
Applicants will be classed as International fee status if:
If you are a student from Republic of Ireland then please see:
The below table outlines expected tuition fee rates for 2024/25 for EU and international students.
The following additional fees are applicable:
The below table outlines expected tuition fee rates for 2025/26 for EU and international students.
EU students that meet our criteria for EU Fee Status will have an International tuition fee applied and may require to obtain a student visa to study in the UK.
Fee Status, tuition fees and immigration requirements will be advised in your offer letter.
Irish nationals who are living in the Common Travel Area of the UK, EU nationals with settled or pre-settled status, and Internationals with Indefinite Leave to remain status can also qualify for home fee status.
Please refer to Fee Status Policy.
Fee status policy
Visas and immigration
It is important that you take the necessary action so that you will be able to register as a student at the University and quickly gain access to its facilities.
We offer a range of bursaries and scholarships to students from England, Wales and Northern Ireland, undertaking their first undergraduate degree.
The University of Glasgow has a number of Undergraduate Excellence Scholarships available to new International and EU students.
The scholarship is awarded as a tuition fee discount of £7,000 per year of study and is subject to satisfactory progress for consecutive years of study.
I am...
a future student a current student country/region...
UK - England UK - Northern Ireland UK - Scotland UK - Wales Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo Congo Democratic Republic of Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Falkland Islands Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea North Korea South Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St Kitts and Nevis St Lucia St Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan Suriname Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States of America Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe level...
Undergraduate Postgraduate taught Postgraduate research select a level
Psychology student Ella provides a rough breakdown of her monthly living costs, along with top tips on student discounts.
Pascaline shares her experience of what it roughly costs each month for her to live in Glasgow, from rent to utilities to transport to food.
Fourth year student Ella talks you through how to find a job as a UofG student living in Glasgow.