# Site: https://www.gold.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 478
# --------

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk:
Search our courses
Open Days and visits
Accommodation options
Chat with our students
Find out more about what makes life at Goldsmiths unique.
Meet academics and have your questions answered.
From campus tours to informative talks there’s lots to see and do.
We offer a space for self-discovery, delivering world-leading research and progressive teaching from our single-site campus in the heart of South East London.
About Goldsmiths
Explore the Goldsmiths campus via 360-degree images and ‘Day in the Life’ experiences.
Get to know buzzing South East London through our area guides.
Learn more about the range of accommodation choices available.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/search-results:
Find undergraduate, postgraduate, PGCE and more courses in arts and humanities, social sciences, cultural studies, computing, and more.
A list of all of the events upcoming at or around our London based university including lectures, degree shows, exhibitions, conferences and workshops.
Primary page content..
Required information ().
Your name.
Your email address.
Subject.
Message.
Leave blank.
Keep this field empty.
We will store and use the information you send in order to provide our service to you.
We will only contact you in
Our academic departments, research centres and more cover a range of disciplines from arts and humanities to entrepreneurial business and management.
We work with businesses, charities and public sector bodies across London, the UK and internationally.
We can help you support and grow by sharing knowledge and expertise.
Browse our library catalogue, examine our collections, and attend exhibitions.
Learn how to borrow from the University of London Library, Senate House and more.
We work in partnership with Goldsmiths' staff, lending our support and expertise to the shared goal of excellence in teaching and learning
Help and advice on using the computing, IT, audio/video and information systems at Goldsmiths including Wi-Fi and passwords
Goldsmiths is home to a vibrant and inventive research community that continues to respond to the urgent challenges of our times.
Community, multiculture and the arts are the centrepieces of our research..
Current projects.
Past projects.
Goldsmiths, University of London.
This programme is for curious, creative, engaged students, interested in exploring society, exposing injustice and unearthing the truth to inform, inspire and empower.
Rarely has journalism been more urgent and in need of a generation equipped to
If you want to be a filmmaker this is the place to learn, gain experience and make films you will be proud to have on your showreel.
This creative degree reflects the diversity and excitement of music in the 21st century and gives you the opportunity to mix many kinds of performance, composition, research and professional studies.
It is ideal for students with experience and/or
Search all our Degrees

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/study:
Find out more about Goldsmiths and some of the key reasons why you should choose to study with us.
Explore our upcoming Open Days, campus tours, virtual events and other ways to visit Goldsmiths.
Find out more about our campus including accommodation options and highlights from the local area.
Take a look around the Goldsmiths campus via 360-degree images and films, as well as 'Day in the Life' experiences.
One bright future, a world of possibility
Find out more about the Clearing process, browse our degrees and make your application today.
We offer undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in the arts, humanities, social sciences, computing, management and law, with many available part-time.
Discover undergraduate degrees at Goldsmiths and find out more about studying here.
We offer a wide range of postgraduate degrees.
Explore your options and read more about Goldsmiths.
We have a long history of excellence in teacher training.
Find out your options for getting ready for the classroom
If English isn't your first language, we have programmes to help you succeed.
We have flexible study options available in association with the University of London.
If you are looking for masters-level study options with greater flexibility, find out more about our short-term programmes.
From support for international students to working with schools, we've got all the information and activities you need on your journey to studying at Goldsmiths.
Find out about tution fees and funding options available to help support your studies.
Information for international students covering all you need to know about studying at Goldsmiths.
Clearing opens on 5 July.
Find out more about the Clearing process.
Goldsmiths offers resources and activities for schools and colleges to help students access higher education.
Find out how you can get ready for your future studying at Goldsmiths through the skills you learn during your degree.
Our Careers Service supports you throughout your studies, helping to identify your future career and develop skills.
We run a range of summer schools to give you a taste of university life at Goldsmiths.
Are you a Londoner considering studying locally rather than moving away for university?
Have a question about studying at Goldsmiths?
Chat with one of our current students or staff members.
We've been working hard to redevelop our curriculum and have set out a number of principles for all our programmes.
Get details of how to apply to our programmes at Goldsmiths.
Take a look at the Undergraduate Guide to find out more about studying here
If you have any questions you can get in touch with Goldsmiths.
Whenever you need help or advice, there’s always someone to turn to at Goldsmiths from wellbeing to careers support.
Find out more about the different support services we have on offer.
Visit our Accommodation pages to find out more about living in halls of residence:
Discover what student life is like at Goldsmiths:
Undergraduate programmes
Postgraduate programmes
PGCE and teacher training
International
Admissions and how to apply
Fees and funding

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international:
Discover the top reasons to choose to study at Goldsmiths.
Find out when Goldsmiths are visiting your country.
Find out how you can visit Goldsmiths as an international student.
Explore 360 images of our facilities and experience a Day in the Life as a Goldsmiths student.
Country-specific information, including entry requirements, fees and scholarships.
How to apply as an international student.
Advice on immigration and applying for your visa.
Everything you need to know once you arrive.
Study at Goldsmiths for one or two terms, or the full academic year.
Find out about opportunities to visit Goldsmiths as an international exchange student (Erasmus+, etc).
Information for incoming students enrolled on a transfer degree programme.
Explore partnership opportunities with Goldsmiths.
Find resources for current and prospective representatives.
Get information on living costs and advice for budgeting during university.
Find out more about fees, and funding your studies at Goldsmiths.
Country specific information to help with your application
Why Goldsmiths?
How to apply
Browse our departments
Visit us

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/about:
Goldsmiths: a close-knit community, a rich academic heritage, a creative powerhouse, a thought-provoking place.
Talk to us by phone, email or live chat.
How to travel to us and find places on campus.
Come work at an inspiring university.
A space for self-discovery.
We deliver world-leading research and excellent teaching from the heart of South East London.
Our institutional strategy to 2033 as a creative and progressive university delivering positive change locally, nationally and globally.
Our Charter, Statutes, Ordinances, and Committees that oversee our work.
For more than 200 years, generations of students have received an education here on the site of Goldsmiths.
Meet the people who studied at Goldsmiths and read about their rich experiences here.
Responsible for overseeing the academic and administrative leadership of the university.
Goldsmiths is a civic university and there are many ways we work with our local communities.
We can help support and grow your business through sharing knowledge and expertise.
We deliver innovative academic partnerships in collaboration with higher education providers around the globe.
A free public art gallery bringing world-class exhibitions to south London.
Aiming to break down the barriers that discourage people from entering higher education.
A university press aiming to revive and regenerate the traditions and values of university press publishing.
Everything you need to know about applying to come and study at Goldsmiths.
We've got study options across a range of disciplines from the arts and humanities to business and management.
Our departments offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate study options.
Explore our campus or experience the day in the life of a student.
Experience what studying at Goldsmiths is like and get to know us.
Discover life in and around Goldsmiths, our accommodation and campus facilities.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research:
Goldsmiths’ mission is to stimulate creative, radical and intellectually rigorous thinking and practice.
Our world-leading research recognised by the Research Excellence Framework.
The structures that ensure the quality and impact of our research and its environment.
Sharing Goldsmiths’ research and expertise with the wider world.
We can help support and grow your business by sharing knowledge and expertise.
Our academic departments are research-intensive hubs:
Bringing colleagues from across campus into interdisciplinary research centres and units.
We are committed to making our research come to life in the world for the benefit of our communities.
Search our open access repository of our academic's research outputs.
From exploring the Brexit experience of British people living in Europe to understanding electronic music history , see a selection of research projects which have had a significant impact on the world around us.
A better understanding of the social and cultural significance of human hair.
Research by Forensic Architecture has helped to evidence toxic levels of industrial air pollution in Louisiana, USA.
Anthropology research has driven changes to government policy and industry practice on gambling.
Changing policy and practice in social work with affluent families.
Psychology research has changed how police investigators gather evidence from witnesses and victims.
New ways to experience and understand science through Virtual Reality (VR).
Get more information on why you should study a PhD or MPhil at Goldsmiths.
We offer degrees across the arts and humanities, computing, creative industries and the social sciences.
Studentships, scholarships and bursaries are available to help fund MPhil/PhDs with us.
We aim to provide good career development support for all levels of research staff.
Our central team provides a pro-active service to support Goldsmiths' researchers.
Home to postgraduate researchers and the hub for events and activities.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business:
Goldsmiths’ broad and varied academic specialisms has seen us collaborate with all kinds of organisations in a variety of innovative and impactful ways.
From supporting local businesses and delivering public sector projects to partnering with some of the world’s largest companies and renowned charities, our work has applied research expertise to educate, evaluate, investigate, problem solve, and more.
There are numerous vehicles for collaboration, and our dedicated team will work with you to identify what’s best for you.
Organisations of any size can engage our academics to help gain new knowledge or apply existing knowledge
We help businesses in the UK to innovate and grow by linking them with academic expertise
Tailored and bespoke programmes for you and your organisation
Build your team by advertising jobs and opportunities or arranging placements and internships
Programmes and support to help you navigate the challenges of business management and innovation
Engaging communities with our research, scholarship and practice in different ways.
Creativity and culture transcend academic expertise across Goldsmiths, with our computing department applying technology to our work.
We are playing our part in addressing the climate crisis and associated threats our society faces, through the application of our research.
Goldsmiths research is helping healthcare providers and policymakers address the challenges of health inequalities.
Goldsmiths research is helping to address inequalities which challenge communities across the world.
An Arts Council England funded programme designed to help creative businesses that are looking to grow.
The Artsmark Award is the creative quality standard for schools and education settings, accredited by Arts Council England.
Goldsmiths offers an eclectic collection of spaces for your event, from the traditional to the contemporary.
Goldsmiths Print Services provide quick and good value print solutions for businesses and individuals.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/community:
Goldsmiths is a civic university at the heart of New Cross, and these are some of the ways that we work with our local communities.
Goldsmiths Centre for Contemporary Art is a free public art gallery bringing world-class exhibitions to south London.
A collection compriseing textile art, embroidery and dress from all continents.
Come and see academics and notable speakers from Goldsmiths and around the world.
Make an enquiry to host a community event in this historic building.
Local residents can enquire about using our spaces at a free or discounted rate.
People from the Lewisham area can use our academic library for reference and local schools can visit.
Learn something new in the evenings or at weekends from music to anthropology to writing.
We work with local schools and colleges to help their students consider university education.
Our Civic Days let Goldsmiths staff volunteer with local organisations and share their skills.
We are committed to being a good neighbour by listening to and communicating with local residents.
We bring out research and teaching to life in the world for the benefit of our communities both local and global.
Our academics and students work on projects in and around Lewisham helping with local challenges.
Linking Goldsmiths research to the needs of the diverse communities within the London Borough of Lewisham.
We are changing the way we work with local partners and communities to help make a difference locally.
Working with 11 other local anchor institutions, we are making Lewisham an even better place to live, work and create.
Goldsmiths is committed to becoming a carbon-neutral organisation by 2025.
Email us at community (@gold.ac.uk) if you want to know more or get involved with what we do.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/departments:
Our academic departments offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate study options across a range of disciplines from the arts and humanities to entrepreneurial business and management.
We make, curate and write about contemporary art in a dynamic, critical and interdisciplinary environment.
At Goldsmiths design is our DNA.
But we’re not interested in just producing it, we’re interested in defining it.
From classical literature and linguistics to creative writing and contemporary fiction, we're critical and creative.
From symphonies to soundscape, from Errollyn Wallen to James Blake, our music studies are distinctive and inclusive.
We approach performance in exciting and challenging ways, within and beyond European traditions.
We explore new forms of art theory and history, art practice and visual culture.
We’re pushing anthropology forward, pioneering new fields in visual anthropology and the anthropology of modernity.
History isn't just a sequence of events.
We look at a history that’s non-linear, interdisciplinary and comparative.
Goldsmiths Law prepares students for 21st-century legal practice and empowers them to pursue exciting career paths.
At the heart of the communications professions and media industries, we ask the hard questions about the media.
At Goldsmiths the study of politics goes beyond voting systems, parliaments and the conventional arenas of power.
Sociology is a craft, a vocation, and is transformative to study.
Our unique teaching style lets students develop their creative potential while learning solid computing skills.
We see education as a window to view the world; something with the power to define who we are and how we live.
Delivering entrepreneurship, cultural management and policy education to the creative and cultural sectors.
People.
Behaviour.
Change.
You need to be creative to manage all three.
Our courses, from cognitive neuroscience to anomalistic psychology, are accredited and diverse.
Our degrees are informed by our commitment to social justice and applied practices.
If English isn't your first language, we have a wide range of programmes to help you succeed in academic writing.
We explore all facets of Chinese studies, from language to history and dance.
Research at Goldsmiths is organised in many different ways.
One of the most common is to bring colleagues from across campus together in a number of interdisciplinary research centres and units.
See all our Research Centres and Units

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/giving-to-goldsmiths:
Goldsmiths thrives thanks to our community – staff, alumni and friends like you – who come together to support students from all backgrounds to pursue an education and achieve their academic goals.
Yet, many students still face financial hardship, struggling to cover basic living expenses.
Your support can ensure that no student faces hunger or homelessness.
For students from low-income families or those who are the first in their family to attend university, your contribution towards a scholarship or award could open the door to a brighter future.
Your support is vital to Goldsmiths students.
Established in 1891, Goldsmiths is renowned globally for our contributions to the arts, humanities, social sciences, business, entrepreneurship, law and computing.
Goldsmiths is changing the world through:
Could provide essential support to vulnerable students facing emergency situations through the Student Hardship Fund.
Donate £10 a month now
Could help give the gift of an education to a student of colour through the Equity Awards programme.
Donate £100 now
Leaving a gift in your Will of any amount is one of the most meaningful ways you can support Goldsmiths.
Your legacy will help Goldsmiths continue to provide financial aid for underrepresented students, conduct ground-breaking research, or support a department or initiative of your choice.
Leave a gift in your will
Together, let's continue to make a difference.
Your support is a lifeline for countless students, paving the way for a brighter, more inclusive future.
Thank you for supporting Goldsmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students:
Find information from across all our student services
Help with fees, student record, assessments, letters and studying on your programme.
Directory of the different Goldsmiths services, including who you can report problems to.
Help to gain new skills, new experiences, and get expert advice.
For students living in Goldsmiths accommodation and who to contact if you are a partner hall.
Apply for a visa to work or study with Goldsmiths and all visa-related enquiries.
Providing activities, events, societies and sports, as well as support and advice through tougher times.
Guidance on managing your finances, including using our online money manager Blackbullion.
Information on tuition fees at Goldsmiths, including how to pay and what happens if you leave.
Loans and discretionary funds offered by Goldsmiths.
Getting the Transport for London 18+ Student Oyster and the 16-25 Railcard.
How to open a student bank account and get evidence of your student status.
Help if you need a UK-based guarantor to rent accommodation.
Help with your decision and how to go about it.
The regulations for students, what you can expect of us, and what we can expect of you.
The processes you can follow to raise a concern, report conduct, complain or make an academic appeal.
Dates and timetable for exams (when available) and how you get your results.
If a serious event in your life has affected your work, it could be taken into account in your assessments.
Prove your student status to banks, council tax, graduation and for a Schengen visa.
Submit a request to change your optional modules or your timetable.
Access your record to make changes and how to enrol each year.
How to register your attendance at lectures and seminars.
Registering, changing, exams and extending your study of your MPhil or PhD.
Make the most of your time outside of studies:
What is happening on campus:
Find your way around:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni:
Tell us if you change your contact details .
Join our mailing list for regular news and follow us on social media.
Stay involved and play a part in the Goldsmiths community.
Your support can open the door to a brighter future for Goldsmiths students.
After leaving Goldsmiths, you can access a free alumni email for three years.
You can use Goldsmiths Career Service free for three years after graduating, including one-to-one support.
Alumni are eligible to access Goldsmiths Library and Senate House Library.
Discounts are available for Goldsmiths Taught Masters courses, entertainment, shopping and more.
You are welcome to come to our events, lectures and shows.
How alumni can order a copy of your final transcript and degree certificate.
How to get a reference for your employment, placement or further study.
How third-party enquirers, employers and agencies can verify the results of a Goldsmiths graduate.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library:
The Library is open as usual.
The main entrance to the Library is closed temporarily due to building works.
Alternative entrances are clearly signposted and Library spaces and services are open as usual.
Library self-service: 24 hours
Library Help : 10am – 4pm
Tailored advice for your department on finding resources in the library and contact information for your Subject Librarian.
Essential information to get you started.
How we are working to diversify our collections in support of 'Liberate our degrees'.
An exhibition on 7 May - 2 June featuring original artworks and archive pieces celebrating LGBTQ+ lives.
Our unique collections and archives
Develop your skills in:
Contact the IT Service Desk or get help online with:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/timetable:
How to see the different elements of your timetable and teaching.
The timetable for the 2025-26 academic year will be published closer to the start of term.
Please continue to check your student email for updates.
Staff should use mytimetable.gold.ac.uk to access their timetables.
Send a message to your school hub .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it:
Service desk in Library : 10am - 4pm
Check for known issues at status.gold
Goldsmiths IT account access and how to solve problems with your passwords.
How to change your password and update it in various Goldsmiths systems.
How best to store your work on the Goldsmiths network or in the cloud.
Set up MFA to get fast, easy and secure access to Goldsmiths IT services off-campus.
Advice for keeping the information students and staff hold on their devices safe.
How to connect to eduroam, the Goldsmiths Wi-Fi network.
Free guest Wi-Fi access is available for visitors.
How to change your student record or fix problems with your student card.
How to access our Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
If you are having problems with your timetable, try our troubleshooting suggestions.
Support and information on borrowing video and audio equipment from the IT Service Desk.
Getting help, using the hardware, connecting your own device in our teaching rooms.
Video and audio editing and media production for students and staff.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/staff-directory:
Search for staff by name, department, building or phone number.
Contacts for other student services and other non-student services
Staff can access the following guides:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/graduate-school:
Graduate School offers a programme of generic training to all current research students.
Forms and policies relating to the examination process, administered by the Research Degrees team.
Find a member of the Graduate School staff or your course Postgraduate co-ordinator.
Supporting excellence in postgraduate research at Goldsmiths; dedicated funds are available to support postgraduate research at Goldsmiths.
Assist Goldsmiths' doctoral researchers with research-related expenses crucial for the successful culmination of their PhD.
Some of our academic departments offer subject-specific funding to prospective postgraduate students.
Goldsmiths is one of nine leading research institutions in CHASE, the Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts Southeast England.
Fully-funded ESRC studentships are available to research students via this DTP.
These studentships build on the Generation Delta project, which addresses barriers to access and participation for racialised students and women of colour in doctoral study.
The Graduate School is pleased to announce the call for two fully-funded Migrant Futures Doctoral Studentships.
We offer one-to-one tutorials, workshops, and subject support to help you with your studies.
Here to help you gain new skills, new experiences, and get expert advice, whether you're a current student or alumni.
We can help you to arrange any reasonable adjustments, equipment or support you need to study effectively.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/talic:
We work in partnership with Goldsmiths' staff, lending our support and expertise to the shared goal of excellence in teaching and learning.
About TaLIC
We are a team of learning technologists and academic developers supporting inclusive and engaging innovation in the curriculum, and providing effective development, recognition and reward for all staff involved in teaching and supporting students’ learning.
We do this through a wide range of enhancement activities, including accredited courses, one-to-one support, events, online resources, the sharing of institution-wide innovative practice, and bespoke workshops.
We play a key role in enabling Goldsmiths’ strategic ambitions for education and the student experience.
We provide technical and pedagogical support and guidance for staff in Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL).
Our staff can help with the design of learning materials to make the most of flexible learning opportunities, from induction through to assessment.
We can prototype ideas, research the possibilities and help staff to construct learning activities and resources.
We also assist with day-to-day enquiries via our dedicated email helpline tel (@gold.ac.uk) and daily drop-ins.
We work closely with colleagues in IT and Digital Services to ensure upgrades and updates work smoothly and keep an eye on research, trends and innovations across the sector via local and national networks.
Our supported platforms provide abundant opportunities to create engaging and accessible activities and resources to supplement face to face teaching.
Goldsmiths' Postgraduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education (PGCHE) is designed to enhance the pedagogical practice of staff new to teaching.
It is open to Goldsmiths’ staff via an application and selection process.
The programme consists of a series of study days, teaching observations, reflection logs, projects and coursework.
During the Study Days established teachers discuss existing pedagogical theory and practice informed by the lived experience of teaching at university.
Participants on the programme explore, discuss and debate theories of learning and teaching in Higher Education, and reflect on their own teaching activities, both individually and with their peers.
The Experiential route (ER) is Goldsmiths’ pathway for staff with recent or current experience teaching or supporting student learning to gain recognition as Fellows of Advance HE.
We offer 3 levels of fellowship:
Associate D1 – open to all staff who teach or support student learning in higher education.
Fellowship D2 - for staff with at least 3 years experience teaching in higher education, although this is flexible
Senior Fellowship D3 – for staff with leadership experience in learning and teaching
We offer support in curriculum development and for individuals, particularly in inclusive practice and decolonising the curriculum.
These include short online or face-to-face courses and sessions focussing on EDI centred practice, web resources, and bespoke sessions with programme teams.
We work with academic and professional services staff to create self-sustaining communities of practice across the university to support ongoing embedded staff development particularly around Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
Fiona was formerly Principal Lecturer in Learning and Teaching at the University of Brighton and the Head of Learning and Teaching at the University of Winchester, where she led their PGCHE, experiential route and an MA Student Engagement.
She did her PhD at UCL in archaeology before working in various roles in universities, heritage and museums in the UK and abroad.
Her background is in academic development and digital education, and she continues to have research interests in staff digital capabilities, assessment and feedback, and immersive digital learning environments, particularly virtual reality.
She is a member of the UCISA Digital Capabilities Steering Committee and works closely with organisations including Jisc, ALT, SEDA and HEDG.
Adeola manages the administrative process for both the PGCHE programme and the Advance HE Experiential Route to Fellowship.
Adeola has completed a first degree in Forensic Science, followed by a master’s degree in management, both at the University of Central Lancashire.
During this time Adeola fell in love working with the diversity of student and staff experiences, within the higher education environment.
She has spent almost a decade working in higher education with a plethora of experience in the administrative field.
Adeola has worked in various roles at Goldsmiths in the marketing, admissions, and disability teams.
She has also completed a mental health first aider course and is proactive in advancing EDI within higher educational institutes.
Andrew is a Lecturer in Teaching and Learning for Higher Education at Goldsmiths.
Andrew has more than twenty-five years teaching experience in higher education, at a number of universities in London and the Home Counties.
This includes supporting and delivering teaching and learning activities across a broad range of academic disciplines.
His teaching and learning interests include; pedagogic practice, assessment strategies, micro-teaching, curriculum design and development, decolonising the curriculum, inclusive education and pedagogical innovations.
He is also interested in actively promoting healthy professional relationships and academic well-being.
Andrew is a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (SFHEA) and a qualified social worker.
In his role, he is directly involved in the accreditation work for Advanced HE Awards and recognition at Goldsmiths and therefore keen to maintain and promote professional standards for teaching and learning in higher education.
He has also contributed to Goldsmiths' work on the Teaching Excellence and Students Outcomes Framework.
Andrew has led and successfully won higher education contract bids in excess of one million pounds per annum and worked with both children’s and adult statutory employers and major government departments including the Children’s Workforce Development Council, Department for Education and Ministry of Justice.
Andrew’s research interests span both education and social work.
He is a registered doctoral student at University College London, Faculty of Education.
Andrew’s research is focused on the educational experiences of black boys in the care of the state.
His social work research interests include: looked after children , social exclusion, social capital, resilience and vulnerability, youth and transitions, dual diagnosis, domestic violence, violence and the life course.
Debbie received a joint honours BA in Philosophy and Psychology (first class) from Stirling University in 1990.
She was awarded a PhD in 1994 from the University of St Andrews for a doctoral thesis on social learning and imitation in human children, chimpanzees and capuchin monkeys.
After completing two Research/Teaching contracts at St Andrews, Debbie spent a year in Kenya acting as the field manager on an ESRC funded project on maternal strategies in wild Olive baboons.
Debbie joined the Department of Psychology at Goldsmiths in 1997.
She expanded her research to study the dog-human bond.
She taught at every level from first year undergraduate to PhD supervision.
She received the Peake Award for Excellence in Teaching in 2006.
She became a Senior Lecturer in 2013 and was appointed the Director of the Teaching and Learning Innovation Centre (TaLIC) in 2016.
She became a Senior Fellow of Advance HE in 2019.
Debbie retired from full-time academia in 2021, but has continued to act a part-time tutor on TaLIC's Academic Practice Award and the PGCHE.
Jane-May is responsible for coordinating College-wide projects and initiatives related to digital accessibility and inclusion, as well as improving the teaching and learning experience for disabled staff and students at Goldsmiths.
Jane-May is currently studying towards a professional Doctorate in Education (EdD) in the School of Education at the University of Sheffield.
Jane-May’s doctoral research relates to understanding the experiences of racially minoritised professional and support staff within higher education institutions.
Jane-May has extensive experience of both studying and working at Goldsmiths in various roles.
Originally Mark’s work largely focused on the production of video-based learning resources and managing a video recording facility and editing suite.
He later moved into VLE management and before joining Goldsmiths, was responsible for the University College of Osteopathy’s Moodle-based VLE.
He studied Cultural and Media Studies BA (hons) at UWE Bristol and began working in Higher Education in 2001, soon after graduating.
Mark currently splits his time between working at Goldsmiths and as a sound engineer and music producer.
Mariam is the Educational Developer for Deconolisation of Academic Practice.
Her work focuses on the interaction between the socio-political understanding of social minorities and the psychological impact of this status, focusing on racial studies.
She has also engaged in research on LGBT studies and psychology, as well as teaching practice as a seminar leader in social psychology.
She studied Psychology and Sociology BSc (Hons) at London Metropolitan University, where she held a role as Student Curriculum Partner, developing her interest in curriculum development.
Raed research interest is in literacy and lifelong learning from computational and constructionist perspectives.
He has taught classes on digital literacy and computer skills.
Raed obtained his PhD from the University of Greenwich in London where he worked on interdisciplinary research at the Faculty of Education.
His doctoral thesis focused on computational interventions in learning and teaching of English for English Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) students.
Raed also works at the Media and Communications Department as Research Associate of the UK/EU Hub of the international research project Deathscapes: Mapping Race and Violence in Settler Societies , which is developing new ways to document, understand, and respond to contemporary racialized violence with research partners in Australia, Canada, and the United States.
He has worked previously on participatory media initiatives that support creative expression and human rights advocacy among impoverished youth and communities in Palestine using new digital media and art.
Vanessa is the Arts and Humanities E-Learning Advisor for the following academic departments.
Art, English and Creative Writing, Design, Music, Theatre and Performance, Visual Cultures.
She provides initial technical and pedagogical advice about learn.gold to staff within these departments.
Vanessa has a BA (Hons) in History and Sociology and an MA in Sociology, both from Goldsmiths.
She has worked at Goldsmiths since 2003 in a variety of departments, so has an extensive knowledge of the institution, as a student and member of staff.
Will’s PhD Will received his PhD at Goldsmiths College in Art and Computational Technology in 2018.
His research centred on the blurring of the lines between art and life through the use of collaborative interactive art experiences.
Will received an extensive educational practice background in Electronic Arts, Fine art, Photography and Art History while undertaking his B.F.A at the University of New Mexico.
After earning his undergraduate degree, he moved to the United Kingdom for graduate school.
While in the U.K Will has obtained a M.A.
in Studio Art from the University of East London and an M.F.A in Compactional Studio Art from Goldsmiths.
Prior to his time at TaLIC, he worked in graphic design and fine art photography in the United States.
Joanna is a Learning Technologist with a background in instructional design, digital learning platforms, and technology-enhanced learning.
She has worked in both higher education and the international development sector, in delivering engaging, accessible, and scalable learning solutions.
Joanna specialises in eLearning development, learning management systems, and the creation of interactive digital content.
Passionate about digital inclusion and human-centred learning, she is committed to leveraging technology to enhance teaching and training outcomes.
With an interdisciplinary background in art, design, languages, and senior academic leadership, Vicki specialises in transformative approaches to learning, teaching, and assessment.
She draws on creative practices to inspire inclusive, collaborative, and socially just education within and across disciplines, with a strong focus on bridging theory and practice.
At Goldsmiths, Vicki leads the Experiential Route to Fellowship programme.
She is working to widen interest in and access to fellowship recognition, while building a community where colleagues can share ideas, reflect on their practice, and support each other’s growth.
She brings experience of developing alternative assessment formats, including dialogic routes to fellowship recognition.
For over 10 years, Vicki has led and collaborated on institution-wide, interdisciplinary pedagogical research projects, directly informing educational practice and contributing to enhancements such as improvements in the National Student Survey (NSS).
Her research projects have explored students’ experiences of assessment and feedback, supported staff in developing active learning pedagogies, and investigated the integration of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into curricula, alongside the development of communities of practice.
Other current research interests include the ethical use of generative AI in education.
Email tel (@gold.ac.uk)
If emailing about learn.gold include:
Please email talic (@gold.ac.uk) .
Contents

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing:
Clearing 2025 is now open.
Apply using our online application form or contact us via our Clearing phone lines or live chat.
Browse our available programmes using our Clearing course search on this page.
Receive a guaranteed offer of accommodation when you choose Goldsmiths through Clearing.
You may also be eligible for £1,800 towards your accommodation costs.
or chat with us on
Clearing live chat and phone lines are open from 10am - 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Read our quick guide to Clearing for the main facts on the process.
Find out exactly how Clearing works through our hub of advice, guides and student stories.
Support your child or dependant through the Clearing process when applying to university.
Take a campus tour, guided by current students, to find out more about where you would be studying.
A Goldsmiths degree will encourage you to see the world differently – you'll look at your subject in fresh ways that will spark your imagination, and will be inspired to challenge and change the world around you.
This all happens on our friendly single-site campus in London.
Find out more about the benefits of studying at Goldsmiths .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-hub:
Clearing can be a confusing and stressful time – but it doesn't need to be.
There can be lots of reasons why people apply to university this way.
Read our advice on how Clearing could work for you.
If you have changed your mind about you want to study, we are here to help with tips and advice.
We welcome applications from people of all ages, no matter how long they have been out of education.
We explain how the Clearing process works and give advice if you are worried about your results.
Discover the bursaries and scholarships open to Clearing applicants.
If you are a Londoner who is thinking about studying closer to home you could apply through Clearing.
Taking less traditional qualifications does not stop you applying to university through Clearing.
Find out about requirements for your application and get advice on the Clearing process.
Guarantee an offer of a place in our accommodation and receive support towards your accommodation fees.
Creativity and community – Learn about life at Goldsmiths.
Our quick guide to what you need to do to make a university Clearing application, and what happens once you've applied.
If you are supporting your child or dependant with the Clearing process get more information and advice.
Find out more about what life is like at Goldsmiths with our guides to the local area.
Join a London university where you will be encouraged to think for yourself and you are free to be yourself.
We offer a range of scholarships to help support students while they study.
Find out if you are eligible here.
Details of our halls of residence, plus advice on how to find a place to live if you don't want university accommodation.
Find out about life in London and our location in New Cross.
Discover the facilities that fill our campus, from our 24-hour library to our own theatre.
Goldsmiths Students' Union offers a range of great ways to enhance your social life.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/open-days:
Join us on campus for student-led tours; informative talks and the opportunity to meet academics and have your questions answered.
Our campus tours are guided by current students and help to give you an insight into studying at Goldsmiths.
Attending an Open Day can be a really beneficial part of choosing your university.
Have all of your questions about studying at Goldsmiths answered online.
If you're interested in studying Art at Goldsmiths, you can attend one of our Art Open Days during the autumn term.
When I came to visit for the Open Day, I just really liked the community.
And I really liked the vibe.
Because you have everything that you need around you.
Susan, BA Drama & Theatre Arts
Find out when Goldsmiths is visiting your country.
Find out how to visit Goldsmiths as an international student.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation:
We offer a range of accommodation options – whether you prefer the supported environment of halls, or more independent living.
We have places available across a number of our halls and are continuing to accept late applications.
If you are yet to accept your academic offer from Goldsmiths, you may be eligible for a bursary to help with your accommodation costs:
Find out more about how to register and apply for accommodation .
See our 2025 Accommodation Guide (PDF) for more information on accommodation options.
If you require accessible information, please view our online guide .
If you are a current student at Goldsmiths, please see our section for current students for more information on the window to make an application for 2025-26.
We have just over 1,400 rooms in our halls of residence, located locally and across London.
Information for those looking for accommodation in the private sector or moving to London with their family.
Information for Erasmus+ and Study Abroad students.
Help with the accommodation application process
Our allocation policy for accommodation.
Information on accommodation fees and financial support
Important details about your accommodation offer.
Here’s who to contact about the day-to-day running of your accommodation, if you’re currently living in halls.
Discover the local area around campus and our student accommodation.
Get in touch with the Accommodation Services team.
I was really lucky, I had amazing people in my halls, and we’re all best friends today.
Charlotte, BA Anthropology

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/unibuddy:
If you have a question about what it’s like to study here, student life, or Goldsmiths in general, you can chat with one of our staff or current students to find out more.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/se-london:
We're surrounded by a whole host of amazing places in South and East London that are filled with museums, shops, bars, cafes, restaurants, green spaces.
Read our area guides below to find out more about our neighbourhood, and places you can explore locally.
I really love South East London.
Peckham, Deptford, and Greenwich are for me, some of the most exciting areas of London.
If you're interested in the arts, Peckham and Deptford have a rich and exciting art scene and some really good food places.
Brockley has wonderful cafes and one of my favourite London bookshops – Crofton Books.
Maria, MA Contemporary Art Theory
Explore our local area guides:
Tower Bridge from Bermondsey
Bermondsey sits just south of the river and east of Tower Bridge.
It’s one of the oldest parts of south London, and these days is full of places to eat out and drink.
The popular Maltby Street Market has plenty for foodies at the weekend but with less tourists than Borough Market.
Many combine this with a visit to the Bermondsey Beer Mile – to do a crawl of the multitude of craft breweries.
If you want to consume culture rather than beer, there are a few notable museums and galleries in the area, including the White Cube Gallery, and the Fashion and Textiles Museum.
The area’s industrial past means you’ll find unexpected venues for leisure activities.
The Arch Climbing Wall is housed in an old biscuit factory, and clubbers can find late-night events at Venue MOT, a repurposed garage near Millwall Football Club.
Located just 10 minutes from Goldsmiths campus, Brockley is home to the award-winning Brockley Market.
It's a brilliant place to pick up fresh produce supplied by local farmers and traders, and enjoy some street food.
You'll find independent shops and cafes as well as the Brockley Jack Theatre and the beautiful Rivoli Ballroom, London's only intact 1950s ballroom, which still hosts regular dance and music events.
Our hall of residence Raymont Hall is also in the area.
Fruit and vegetable stall in Brockley Market
Exhibition at the South London Gallery, Camberwell
Camberwell has a huge array of shops, restaurants and pubs as well as an abundance of arts and culture.
It's home to the South London Gallery , which was described as "one of the most elegant art spaces in London" by the Guardian.
The gallery was named joint winner of Art Fund Museum of the Year 2020.
Most exhibitions are free, as are many of its events.
One of our halls of residence, Town Hall Camberwell , is also in the area.
It sits right next to Theatre Peckham , the community theatre that was the stomping ground of Star Wars actor John Boyega when he was still at school.
This transport hub is just six minutes by train from New Cross, and from here you can change onto the Jubilee tube line, as well as access lots of south and east London via the overground.
If you love sports, the area has loads to offer.
At Surrey Docks you can sail, kayak and windsurf, and there’s everything from fencing to kung-fu at the flagship Decathlon store.
Canada Water Leisure Centre is due to open in 2025 with swimming pools, gym and sports courts.
Close to the station is Southwark Park (including free art gallery), a retail park and enormous performance/exhibition spaces (recently home to the Taskmaster: The Live Experience and Phantom Peak immersive open-world adventure).
The area itself is in the middle of a massive transformation, with a ‘ masterplan ’ to create the “first new town centre in London in 50 years” .
There are more homes, workspaces, shopping and leisure activities being constructed, and the reopening of Printworks, although the club will return in 2026 as a ‘cultural venue’.
Crystal Palace Dinosaurs
Deptford X Fesitival
The magnificently named Crystal Palace is less than 20 minutes on the train from New Cross, and has a lot of reasons to visit it, even if the building that gave the area its name is no longer standing.
The large Crystal Palace Park is full of unexpected treasures – an athletics stadium, a live music area known as the ‘rusty laptop’, a farm (with some exotic animals) and a maze.
Most surprising are the giant dinosaurs – statues amongst the trees by the lake.
They are not quite prehistoric, but they’ve been there over 150 years.
The area also has a great choice of restaurants and pubs, and furniture shops that will interest you if you have a taste for the retro.
A market every Saturday has been offering great street food for over a decade.
Deptford is less than a 10-minute walk from Goldsmiths and has been voted London's coolest high street .
There’s a growing creative community in the area, with many artists and makers filling the studios that sit beside Deptford Creek, the old docks.
Each year Deptford X , a free visual arts festival, takes place celebrating creative talent in the local area.
At Deptford Market, you’ll find stalls selling fruit and veg from all corners of the world sitting alongside performing arts centre The Albany and community hub Deptford Lounge .
Deptford Market Yard also plays host to lots of independent shops, cafes and restaurants, and 3 Creekside is home a street food market.
South East London is the best place to study in the city, no competition.
Deptford was my favourite area.
It has the best market, pubs, cafes and arts centre!
Ralph, MA Performance and Culture
Greenwich is a 25-minute walk from campus.
With historic maritime connections and status as a world heritage site, Greenwich has history and beauty galore.
Famous attractions like the Cutty Sark ship and National Maritime Museum (which is free) sit side-by-side with bars, theatres, comedy clubs and restaurants.
There are plenty of options to keep you entertained: try the Greenwich Picturehouse for arty films, browse the markets, or take a walk along the river.
There is so much choice for food in Greenwich, and their world-famous market has a variety of food, arts and crafts stools.
The cheapest way to eat in this area is to take a picnic to the 183-acre Greenwich Park, which has amazing views over London, and is home to the Royal Observatory .
Cutty Sark in Greenwich
Lewisham Park
Lewisham is a bustling local area and has a shopping centre with high-street stores as well as a large market selling everything from food and flowers to bric-a-brac.
The area, which is in the process of major regeneration, also has a pop-up street food market, temporary exhibitions and plenty of green spaces.
It's also home to the Migration Museum, exploring how the movement of people to and from Britain across the ages has shaped who we are.
Peckham is just 15 minutes by bus from Goldsmiths campus and is an area buzzing with culture, food and activities for all interests.
Whether you're looking for a moment of tranquillity in Peckham Rye Park, or seeking out the latest blockbuster movie at the Peckham Plex (where tickets are just £5.99 for all movies), there's something for you.
Rye Lane itself is home to a selection of high street stores and independent butchers, fishmongers and grocers.
The recent film Rye Lane by Raine Allen-Miller will give you a glimpse of Peckham and its vibrant culture.
South East London is one of the most real, exciting, funny, attractive, diverse and vibrant areas of London.
Marta, BA Sociology
Shadwell offers amazing river views and easy access to the buzz and excitement of East London.
It is also home to one of our halls of residence, Quantum Court .
In Shadwell and the nearby area of Wapping, you'll find plenty of curry houses, pubs and restaurants, as well as Wilton's Music Hall , which presents a year-round programme of live music and theatre.
Shoreditch has received a lot of attention in recent years for its transformation from a neglected part of the capital to a nightlife hotspot.
The area attracts a young, creative crowd who flock to its many music and arts venues.
It's a great spot for shopping with a sizeable vintage market, and street food venues dotted around the area to please the most discerning foodie.
Speaking of food, the world-famous Brick Lane has everything from a 24-hour bagel shop to a huge selection of south Asian cuisine.
Street food stall in Shoreditch
Peckham Plex cinema, Peckham
The Word bookshop, New Cross

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/graduate-fulbright-award:
MA Radio graduate Sylvie Carlos has been awarded a prestigious Fulbright scholarship.
Goldsmiths graduate Sylvie Carlos has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship
Now studying for a PhD, Sylvie Carlos has received an All-Disciplines Postgraduate Fulbright Award enabling her to research and lecture at the University of Maryland.
Building on her postgraduate research which explores how the British audio industry engages with Black audiences across the UK, the Fulbright award will see Sylvie also explore how British podcasts centring on Black experiences resonate with American audiences.
Sylvie said, “When I received the Fulbright, I screamed because I recognised the impact!
Once it sunk in, I felt honoured and really excited!
“As a researcher and producer who has spent years working in and studying the UK audio industry, I’m excited to explore how Black experiences are represented in audio storytelling globally.
I’m particularly interested in how British podcasts land with U.S.
audiences, and what that reveals about the cultural exchange of Black stories across the Atlantic.”
I hope this opportunity will deepen my research, expand transatlantic conversations around race, media, and representation, and help me grow as both a scholar and a creative.
Sylvie Carlos, Goldsmiths graduate
“I aim to build connections with audio-makers, academics, whilst soaking up the cultural life of the U.S.,” she added.
Alongside her academic work, Sylvie has over a decade of experience in the media industry as a multi-award-winning producer working across podcasts and radio.
The US-UK Fulbright Commission is the only academic awards programme that operates on both sides of the Atlantic, providing grants for postgraduate study, research, and teaching.
It works to advance knowledge, promote civic engagement and develop compassionate leaders.
Author: Kryssa Burakowski
Published: 23 Jul 2025
Contact our press office

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/economic-espionage:
New research by Dr Nicola Searle provides the first evidence based understanding of the sectors at risk to knowledge leakage and the trade offs between openess and increased security.
Dr Nicola Searle, Senior Lecturer, Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship
What difference is there if any between economic and industrial espionage?
Industrial espionage - also known as commercial or corporate espionage, or intellectual property theft -means stealing your competitor’s innovation secrets.
For example, working to get the Coca-Cola recipe or taking your ex-employer’s customer details to a new job.
In pop culture we have the Plankton character in SpongeBob.
Plankton’s entire plotline revolves around industrial espionage as he tries to steal the secret recipe for the Crabby Patty.
Industrial espionage can be a big problem for companies.
Economic espionage is a type of industrial espionage where the theft is done to benefit a foreign entity.
Pop culture references to economic espionage are usually thrillers.
Because economic espionage involves geopolitical concerns, and increasingly for governments this means defence technologies, it poses a collective threat.
While domestic industrial espionage is more common, economic espionage is perceived to be much more serious.
To what extent has legislative action in economic espionage been directed or informed by evidence on the nature and extent of knowledge leakage?
Has policy development in these areas been evidence based?
The new policy agenda is research security, which is an umbrella term covering threats to research including industrial or economic espionage.
The US, UK and EU have all ramped up their policy efforts significantly in the last two years.
One of the challenges of policy in this area is that the evidence base is weak.
Economic espionage is clandestine and difficult to measure.
We don’t know how much industrial and economic espionage goes unnoticed.
And even when economic espionage is discovered that information may not be shared for strategic or national security reasons.
That means there is a limited evidence base, so I have a lot of sympathy for the civil servants trying to develop policy on this!
That said, countries have been stealing each other’s technologies for centuries and have been legislating to stop others from doing the same.
Shifts in geopolitics, namely in terms of economic competition and defence, mean we are now talking about research security a lot more than we used to just a few years ago.
Dr Nicola Searle, Senior Lecturer Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrerpreneurship
You recently published new research on economic espionage, what were you trying to find out and how did you go about this research?
With this research I was interested in understanding the relationship between knowledge flows – which are essential for innovation – and protections against espionage.
I wanted to understand how this works in technologies that are more important for national security.
I worked with colleagues in Germany and Italy to look at instances of industrial espionage across the EU to get an understanding of where the risks are and how innovators respond.
We took a database of industrial and economic espionage legal disputes to understand which types of organisations and industries were going to court.
We then took that data and matched it to patent data to understand how organisations change their own innovation protections when they face threats.
What did you research reveal in the areas of economic espionage and which of these are significant for developing policies in this area?
We found that technologies considered more important to national security experience higher levels of industrial espionage.
Strangely, synthetic biology is the most exposed, which we think is related to it being a highly collaborative research area.
The data couldn’t tell us much about the differences between economic and industrial espionage, which we believe is largely down to how cases are recorded.
We’re reflecting on ways we can address this as it really is a challenging area to investigate empirically!
We also found that industries with higher levels of industrial espionage use patents to protect their innovations more and are growing their patent portfolios faster than industries with lower levels of industrial espionage.
While we can’t conclusively say that one causes the other, it does look like there is a relationship between the two.
Are industries that patent more also more attractive to steal from?
Or are organisations responding to the threat of espionage by protecting their innovations with patents?
That’s something we’re still looking in to.
Dr Nicola Searle
What are the risks of bringing issues of economic innovation into the remit of national security?
My concern is that we are asking innovation to grow the economy and then, in the name of national security, making innovation more difficult to do by increasing the costs.
And these costs include making it more difficult to collaborate internationally, increasing regulations and reducing the ability to recruit highly skilled labour.
If we focus so much on protecting innovation from theft, we may actually end up throwing the baby out with the bathwater.
If innovation suffers and the economy is weakened, it then again becomes a national security issue.
At the same time, national security is important, and we do need to think about how we protect technologies that pose a threat when used by competitors – either economic or geopolitical rivals.
Your work has established a link between innovation and international collaboration in the past with the changes to Government policy on foreign students are you fearful that the spigot of innovation is under threat?
Over the last 20 years there has been a big push for greater openness in both science and innovation, which has been very successful in spawning collaborative approaches.
However, where there are collaborations or researchers moving between countries and projects, there is more knowledge moving around.
Where knowledge is moving around there are more opportunities for innovation but also for research breaches.
Hence the concern about research security.
The UK’s research & innovation ecosystem has thrived on its ability to collaborate and to recruit top researchers internationally.
Part of our research pipeline is attracting good students, who then become researchers.
I am concerned that framing students as potential threats not only creates a hole in that pipeline but also sends an unpleasant message to our students.
There was much made in recent months of the vulnerability that university-based research posed to UK national security.
Are these concerns borne out in anyway in your research?
No, but with a large caveat.
There is a dearth of evidence here and we cannot conclusively say the universities are particularly vulnerable or not.
More generally, there are surprisingly few publicly discussed cases of industrial espionage.
This in part because of how UK courts work, but organisations are generally reluctant to speak about their research security breaches.
They might be worried it makes them look bad or that talking about breaches gives away information about their research and innovation.
What I have heard in discussions is mostly anecdotal evidence for the UK.
Does the Government ‘s new national security strategy accurately capture both the challenge, and the measures needed to protect against knowledge leakage and protect innovation?
What areas do you think the Government will need to reconsider based on your research?
What I found curious about the national security strategy was that the importance of innovation is discussed throughout the strategy but absent from the section explicitly discussing research security.
It suggests that the focus of a research security strategy will be on security and not research.
Because the research security needs to walk a fine line between protecting against threats but encouraging research, supporting the research & innovation ecosystem needs to be at the heart of policy.
It’s easily forgotten that restrictions are for everyone – protecting your own research from others also means protecting other people’s research from you.
Getting access to knowledge will become more difficult, and there needs to be a balance.
What we need is a system that is  ‘as open as possible, as closed as necessary’.
And what is possible and what is necessary are open to debate.
Where next with your research in this area?
I’m excited to see growing interest in research security and have several projects underway.
I’m continuing to work with collaborators on understanding how research security threats make organisations change the way they innovate and protect their innovations.
We’re looking at how that might impact collaborations or their choices of research areas, and how policy might impact innovation – or not.
I have some near-completion projects looking at the differences between industrial and economic espionage.
We’re finding different forms of espionage target different types of secrets.
And I have another piece that also has a surprising result.
It looks like being a victim of espionage makes very little difference to how the organisation is valued .
And of course, I wouldn’t be a good espionage researcher if I didn’t imply that I have other secret work.
But I can’t talk about it because it’s classified.
Published: 11 Jul 2025
Senior Lecturer

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/pg-art-degree-shows:
The Vice-Chancellor’s Art Prize recognises students whose work demonstrates outstanding creativity, rigour, and artistic ambition.
Author: John Wallace
Published: 21 Jul 2025
This year, six postgraduate artists have been selected for their bold and thoughtful contributions to the 2025 Goldsmiths Degree Shows.
From moving image to live performance, sculpture to site-based installation, their practices speak to some of the most urgent and intimate questions of our time — including ecology, memory, power, grief, and identity.
Whether working with sound, performance, sculpture or film, each of this year’s winners brought a distinct voice and vision to the show, interrogating urgent questions while holding space for ambiguity, beauty, and personal truth.
“There was such precision and skill across every medium — and the thoughtfulness in how each artist approached complex themes stayed with me.
These were works I wanted to spend time with, to return to.
It was a real privilege to experience them.” - Professor Frances Corner OBE, Vice-Chancellor.
Professor Frances Corner OBE, Vice-Chancellor
Jayson Fowler – for reimagining our relationship to the environment through an ecological and trans lens.
‘Shitting in the Woods’ is precise, political, and quietly powerful, and invites viewers to sit with the complexity of survival and change.
Inigo Roberts – for a haunting film work that moved between cinematic narrative and abstract moving image, and a striking interplay between grief, memory, and disconnection was striking.
the piece felt emotionally layered, formally considered, and atmospherically rich.
George Wigley – for sculptural works that transform everyday objects into handmade, human-scale systems.
Through repetition, material labour, and a touch of absurdity, his pieces reflect on function, breakdown, and the rituals of daily life invite the viewer to consider how meaning is made and remade in the context of late capitalism.
Coco Guo – for ‘The Red Shoes’, a visually bold performance piece that combined movement, costume, and narrative into a compelling and unsettling reflection on power, transformation, and the roles we are asked to play.
Taliesin Gilkes-Bower – for ‘Wrong Earth’, an epic, parafictional installation that wove together ritual, myth, and technospiritual energy.
The scale and ambition of the work was remarkable — it left a lasting impression with its inventiveness and depth.
Yuchen Jiang – for an installation that explores the body as a site of transformation and circulation.
Combining skins, copper wire, and wood with conceptual references to digestive systems and brass musical instruments, the work reflects a shift in Yuchen’s practice towards experimentation, play, and material openness — balancing intricacy with spaciousness.
Jayson Fowler
Inigo Roberts
George Wigley
Coco Guo
Taliesin Gilkes-Bower
Yuchen Jiang
The Vice-Chancellor also thanked the course leaders and staff who guided her through the shows, highlighting their insight, care, and commitment to each student’s practice.
“You could feel the conversations behind the work — the moments of breakthrough, the hesitation, the thought.
The kind of mentorship is that makes Goldsmiths such a special place to study and create,” said Professor Corner.
When my tutor Elle told me I had won the Vice-Chancellor’s Art Prize, I was first surprised and then absolutely delighted.
This year has flown by, but I’ve gained so much — real hands-on experience and a sense of growth that feels substantial."
Yuchen Jiang, Graduate Diploma in Art
Reflecting on her time at Goldsmiths and her work, Yuchen continued:
"I’m also grateful to Joseph, my personal tutor, who encouraged me to move beyond oil painting.
That shift helped me realise I’d been placing limits on myself.
Now I’m having fun, feeling relaxed, and exploring new forms.
My new piece is inspired by the curious similarity between brass instruments and a rabbit’s digestive system — both are systems of transformation and reuse.
I’m exploring the body as an alchemical vessel full of potential.”
Goldsmiths' degree shows reveal the bold ideas, questions, and craft shaping the future of art, design and culture.
This postgraduate exhibition is just one part of a vibrant summer of work.
Explore the full listings to see the breadth of creativity across our departments.
Visit the Art Degree Shows page to learn more and view the full catalogue.
See the full listings of the Goldsmiths Summer Degree Shows .
Reader in Art and Programme Leader MFA Fine Art (Studio Practice)
Programme Leader, Graduate Diploma in Art

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/bsa:
Young people from Black and racially minoritised groups see racist content on their social media feeds at least once a week, Goldsmiths research has revealed.
David Adamson
In a survey of over 800 Black and racially minoritised young people from across the UK more than half said that the predominance of online racism made them feel less safe offline, with 42% (about 1 in 2) saying it harmed their mental health.
The Meta funded report, Youth Race and social media, forms part of the Race and Social Media project with a team comprised of David Woodger, Dr Naomi Thompson, Natalie Law and Leo Freund-Williams.
Findings from the research were presented at the British Sociological Association ’s annual conference in Manchester.
“Overall, young people appear to be experiencing social media as a place where racism thrives unchecked – with explicit racism, polarised debates and backlash as part of their experiences of encountering racial content on social media.”
David Woodger Senior Lecturer, Social Therapeutic and Community Studies
Alongside the survey of Black and racially minoritised young people in Britain aged between 16 and 24, focus groups and interviews were also conducted with 110.
Of those surveyed:
The effect of viewing racist content had an impact offline with 58% of the surveyed group saying that it left them feeling less safe and 42% stating that it harmed their mental health.
18% said that the impact of racist content affected their friendships outside of their ethnic group.
Young women faced particular forms of gendered and racist scrutiny including hyper-sexualisation and insults relating to their physical appearance.
The research also revealed the lack of action taken by social media providers and public authorities to complaints over racist content.
Of those surveyed, 39% had reported the abuse to the social media platform but received no response; 40% reported it but received an unsatisfactory response; 6% reported it and received a satisfactory response; 15% did not report it.
Only 10% reported racist content to the police, with only 1 in 10 of these receiving a satisfactory response.
David Woodger continued:
“A sense of hopelessness and futility often leads them to disengage from certain content or from social media altogether.
Young people largely felt that social media platforms were not doing enough to respond to problematic content relating to race and racism.
“Social media platforms should find new ways to engage and communicate with young people about their experiences and how they might develop more effective responses.”
The young people surveyed were recruited via social media with 49% identified as Black, 43% as Asian and 8% as from other racially minoritised backgrounds.
Study participants said that they checked their social media accounts several times a day, 10% said they checked their social media accounts at least once a day, 2% said they checked a few times a week.
Less than 1% said they checked less frequently.
The report was the first comprehensive study of young Black and racially minoritised groups and their experience of social media platforms in the UK.
Published: 23 Apr 2025
Programme Convenor
BA Community Studies
Reader in Youth and Community Work

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/contact:
How to contact the main departments and services in Goldsmiths.
Goldsmiths, University of London New Cross London SE14 6NW
How to get to Goldsmiths
Click the option below that best matches your query:
The Development and Alumni Office is available to support Goldsmiths’ alumni and donor communities.
Read about alumni services for answers to most queries and details of how to contact us.
Learn more about giving to Goldsmiths including fundraising projects and what areas you can support.
See the Who to Contact/Report a problem page for current students.
For information about our Estates and Facilities, call +44 (0)20 7919 7121
Goldsmiths Security is in operation 24 hours a day, seven days a week for your protection.
If there is an emergency please contact +44 (0)20 7919 7105
Student accommodation: +44 (0)20 7919 7192 / accommodation (@gold.ac.uk)
Find out more about our Conference Services , including building and space hire.
The Communications, Marketing and Recruitment team at Goldsmiths manages media relations, the Goldsmiths website, institutional social media channels, institutional brand and design issues and student and staff communications.
cmr (@gold.ac.uk)
See contacts for the Goldsmiths Press Office .
Please let us know if you have any feedback regarding the Goldsmiths website .
To raise issues or concerns with our content see our Notice and Takedown Procedure .
Find out about working at Goldsmiths.
Search current vacancies .
See our Services for Business contacts .
Call our switchboard on +44 (0)20 7919 7171

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/find-us:
Goldsmiths is in New Cross, South East London, five miles from central London.
Goldsmiths is well connected to the public transport network in London.
You can use the journey planner on the TfL website to plan your travel to and from anywhere in London.
Google Maps can help you plan any journeys from outside of London.
Or you can use National Rail to plan your train journey.
We also recommend the Citymapper app for finding your way around London.
The following buses stop close to Goldsmiths: 21, 36, 53, 136, 171, 172, 177, 225, 321, 343, 436 and 453.
Goldsmiths is less than five minutes’ walk from both New Cross and New Cross Gate railway stations.
Turn right out of the station and right again at the top into New Cross Road.
For Richard Hoggart and Rutherford Buildings:
For Deptford Town Hall Building and Ben Pimlott Building:
Turn left out of the station and cross the road at the traffic lights.
Deptford Town Hall Building is to your left.
For Ben Pimlott Building, turn right and take the first left into St James.
You will see the entrance on the left-hand side, just before the nursery school.
For Richard Hoggart Building:
Use TFL's cycle journey planner to find a safe route to Goldsmiths.
There are bike lockers, showering facilities, and plenty of secure bike parking spaces across campus.
See the campus map for details .
If you are driving to Goldsmiths accommodation please follow the advice sent to you by our Accommodation team.
You can plan your journey on Google Maps .
There is no public parking on the Goldsmiths campus.
From central London
From Kent, Surrey, Sussex or the north if using Blackwall Tunnel or Dartford River Crossing (southbound)
Using London Underground
Journey time: about 90 minutes to Goldsmiths Cost: £10-15*
This is the most affordable public transport option from Heathrow.
The cheapest way of travelling around London is by using a contactless debit/credit card, or by using an Oyster card, which you can purchase from any Transport for London (TfL) station.
An Oyster card costs £7, which is credited back after a year.
You will also need to add funds to your Oyster card to cover the cost of your journey.
Take the London Underground (Tube) Piccadilly line eastbound to Green Park.
From there take the Jubilee line eastbound to Canada Water.
At Canada Water take the London Overground southbound to New Cross or New Cross Gate.
Using Heathrow Express
Journey time: about 60 minutes to Goldsmiths Cost: £25-35*
The Heathrow Express offers fast, frequent trains from all Heathrow Terminals to London Paddington.
Tickets for the Heathrow Express are expensive unless prebooked online weeks in advance.
Please note that you cannot pay by contactless debit/credit card or Oyster card on the Heathrow Express.
At London Paddington, you should take the Elizabeth line eastbound to Whitechapel and transfer to a southbound London Overground train to New Cross or New Cross Gate.
*Costs and journey times are approximate and subject to change.
Journey time: about 60 minutes to Goldsmiths Cost: £12-17*
London Gatwick Airport’s railway station offers direct train services to and from central London.
From Gatwick Airport station travel to East Croydon or London Bridge where you should transfer to a National Rail service to New Cross Gate.
*Cost and journey time is approximate and subject to change.
Journey time: about 30 minutes to Goldsmiths Cost: £2*
The cheapest way of travelling around London is by using a contactless debit/credit card, or by using an Oyster card, which you can purchase from any Transport for London (TfL) station.
Take the DLR from London City Airport to Canning Town station.
From there take the London Underground (Tube) Jubilee line Westbound to Canada Water station, then transfer to the London Overground and travel southbound to either New Cross or New Cross Gate.
Journey time: about 75 minutes to Goldsmiths Cost: £24-25*
Take a National Rail train from Stansted Airport station to London Liverpool Street.
Once you arrive, the cheapest way of travelling around London is by using a contactless debit/credit card, or by using an Oyster card, which you can purchase from any Transport for London (TfL) station.
From Liverpool Street, take an Elizabeth line train eastbound to Whitechapel.
Change there for the London Overground and travel southbound to either New Cross or New Cross Gate.
Journey time: about 90 minutes to Goldsmiths Cost: £23*
Shuttle buses connect the airport terminal with Luton Airport Parkway railway station.
Tickets for the the shuttle bus can be purchased onboard (contactless payment only).
At Luton Airport Parkway, purchase a ticket to New Cross Gate and take a train to London Bridge, then transfer to a National Rail service to New Cross Gate station.
Please notify the person you are visiting in advance so that arrangements can be made for you.
Read our campus mobility guide and the Goldsmiths accessibility guides on accessable.co.uk .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/working:
Join our vibrant university nestled in the lively atmosphere of South East London, where inspiration knows no bounds.
We have a variety of academic, technical and professional roles at Goldsmiths.
How to find jobs, fill out an application form and be successful at an interview.
At Goldsmiths, we pride ourselves on supporting our staff through a generous benefits package.
We actively encourage those with disabilities to apply to work at Goldsmiths.
How to set up a bank account, find somewhere to live and organise childcare.
Who to contact for further help and advice.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accessibility:
We want you to be able to use our website in your own way.
This accessibility statement applies to www.gold.ac.uk, sites.gold.ac.uk and jobs.gold.ac.uk
Goldsmiths, University of London run this website (www.gold.ac.uk, sites.gold.ac.uk and jobs.gold.ac.uk).
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We are also working to make the website text as simple as possible to understand.
The majority of video on our website is streamed by Vimeo.
See the Vimeo player keyboard short cuts .
Some videos are streamed by YouTube.
See the YouTube keyboard short cuts .
Audio is streamed by SoundCloud.
Keyboard shortcuts for its player are:
We know some parts of this website aren’t currently fully accessible:
We are currently re-coding sections of our website as part of a wider project.
We are working to the WCAG 2.1 AA standard and includes many of the requirements for AAA.
If you need information on this website in a different format such as accessible PDF, email cmr (@gold.ac.uk) .
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in five working days.
If you need information on our courses or applying to study at Goldsmiths you can call +44 (0)20 7078 5300 (10am–4pm) or email course-info (@gold.ac.uk) .
If you can’t view any of the maps you can call us on +44 (0)20 7919 7171 or email estates (@gold.ac.uk) for directions.
Our Contact page lists other departments you can call for information.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems that aren’t listed on this page or think we’re not meeting the requirements of the accessibility regulations, contact cmr (@gold.ac.uk) .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Find out how to contact us .
Goldsmiths, University of London is committed to making its websites accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
The website is largely compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard.
However, there are still a number of non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Using the tab key to move around some pages can go in unexpected directions or miss out content.
The focus area is not always highlighted.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criteria 2.1 (Keyboard), 2.4.7 (Focus visible), 3.2.1 (Focus).
We've changed some of our search input boxes to make them compliant, but there are still issues with:
Our main website navigation (in the top right of the page) has issues due to a hidden search box that fails WCAG 2.1 success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
When typing a query in some of our searches we provide suggested results.
On some pages, we have 'Read more' options to expand the text on the page.
Screen readers are not made aware of these.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criteria 1.3.3 (Sensory Characteristics) and 4.1.3 (Status Messages).
Some links to documents like PDFs do not include a label that signifies they are opening a different format.
There is a small number of links that open a new window without a label.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criteria 2.4.4 (Link Purpose).
Some images have nearby text that adequately describes the image, and the alt attribute duplicates this text.
We also have two links to the same content next to each other.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criteria 1.1.1 (Non-text Content).
(Video published before September 2020 is not covered by the regulations.)
Many of our videos are ‘talking heads’ with the content delivered through speech.
Some videos will benefit from having an audio description for visually impaired people.
(Audio published before September 2020 is not covered by the regulations.)
We will review the audio streams we have on this website and decide whether to provide transcripts or remove the streams.
Gold.ac.uk contains many documents dating back several years.
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents don’t meet accessibility standards - for example, they may not be marked up so they’re accessible to a screen reader, or they may have colour contrast issues.
We expect important documents and those in current use to be replaced as part of various projects at Goldsmiths to update policies and governance documents.
All new documents produced by ourselves uploaded from August 2019 are tested for accessibility.
We are required to publish some documents provided by external bodies (for example from The Office for Students) in the format they provide them and therefore cannot make them accessible.
The accessibility regulations don’t require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
We’ll consider this as we review and update all our content.
Live video streams do not have captions.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams due to the cost and complexity involved.
Live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
As our website evolves we always consider accessibility and how we can improve it.
As part of our internal build processes, we run axe on pages to highlight any areas that may need addressing.
This statement was prepared on 19 July 2019.
It was last reviewed on 19 September 2024.
Our website was originally tested as it was built in 2015.
Since then, the WCAG guidelines have changed, and new pages and functionality added.
As part of our project to recode this website, we commissioned Dig Inclusion to test a selection of our pages in May 2019.
This selection was of high traffic pages containing elements used across the site including:
Dig Inclusion provided us with a detailed report on the pages and what would be required to meet the WCAG 2.1 AAA standard.
This informed the new code we are producing for our pages.
In addition, we tested our website with a screen reader in December 2019.
As we update our pages and templates we test them ourselves.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
DnA has an extensive list of resources, reviews and guides .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/cookies-statement:
Our website (www.gold.ac.uk) uses cookies and similar technologies.
Some cookies are necessary to help our website work properly and can't be switched off, and some are optional.
For instance, we and our partners may store cookies and other similar technologies to access personal data, page visits and your IP address.
We use this information about you, your devices and your online interactions with us to provide, analyse and improve our services.
This may include personalising content or the advertising you see on other websites and platforms.
We used cookies as the collective term for these technologies.
You can control which of these are used on gold.ac.uk.
These are technically essential to the provision of the www.gold.ac.uk website.
For example, some cookies are used to enable secure login to restricted areas.
These help us understand how people use our website and make improvements to what we do.
We use Google Analytics, which you can opt-out within your browser using Google's add-on .
We use Microsoft Clarity, which is covered by the Microsoft Privacy Statement and you can access your data held by Microsoft through their privacy dashboard .
Our advertising partners use cookies and code called pixels* on our website to help us monitor the effectiveness of our advertising.
Sometimes we use remarketing advertising services, which use the information from cookies and pixels to show adverts from Goldsmiths on other websites that you visit.
This is based on how you have interacted with our website.
We have advanced matching enabled on forms used by visitors who are enquiring about coming to study at Goldsmiths (for example, open day registration).
We do not use advanced matching on pages containing forms unrelated to coming to study at Goldsmiths.
It is not used on forms for current students and staff.
Advanced matching uses a secure method called hashing to compare the information you enter on a form with what the advertiser holds (this is limited to name, email, phone, gender and location).
If this hashed information matches, the advertiser can serve advertised personalised to you.
If the hashed information does not match (ie the advertiser does not have the same information), the advertiser disregards the hash.
At no point does the advertiser see your personal information in this case.
Meta* (including Facebook and Instagram)
You can also control adverting using:
* For Meta we use the Meta Conversion API to provide the information that would be collected by the Meta Pixel (this includes what is needed for advanced matching).
We only do this for users who have enabled tracking cookies.
We do not do this on pages containing forms unrelated to coming to study at Goldsmiths.
We embed content from the following services on our websites.
They may use cookies from within their content.
We use Airtable to show database tables.
See Airtable's privacy policy for how they manage cookies: airtable.com/privacy
We use bilibili to show videos relevant to visitors from China.
See bilibili's international privacy policy: bilibili.com/blackboard/protocal/international_en_privacy.html
Our maps are served by Google Maps .
This includes our Campus Map, where we have overlaid our own map.
This is governed by Google’s privacy policy: policies.google.com/technologies/cookies
Issuu is used to show publications.
See Issuu's cookie policy: issuu.com/legal/cookies
We have audio streams served by SoundCloud .
See SoundCloud’s cookie policy: soundcloud.com/pages/cookies
Some pages feature Spotify playlists.
See Spotify's cookie policy: spotify.com/uk/legal/cookies-policy
Some pages include videos served by Vimeo .
This includes auto-playing videos featured in the top ‘hero’ areas of pages.
See Vimeo’s cookie policy: vimeo.com/cookie_policy
Some videos are served by YouTube , which is governed by Google’s privacy policy: policies.google.com/technologies/cookies
Some pages include the ability to share with X .
See X’s cookie policy: help.twitter.com/en/rules-and-policies/twitter-cookies
Related notices:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/disclaimer:
Unless otherwise stated, all content contained within this website is copyright to Goldsmiths, University of London or has been licensed to Goldsmiths by the right owners.
No part of the website may be reprinted or used elsewhere in any form without prior permission.
All trademarks are acknowledged.
We endeavour to comply with copyright law.
If, however, you believe that materials contained on the website may infringe this please follow our Notice and Takedown procedure .
Goldsmiths will, upon notification, consider removing any material open to legal objection pending investigation.
Whilst it is as far as possible accurate at the date of publication, and the College will attempt to inform applicants of any substantial changes in the information contained in it, the College does not intend by publication of this website to create any contractual or other legal relation with applicants, accepted students, their advisers or any other person.
The College is unable to accept liability for the cancellation of proposed programmes of study prior to their scheduled start; in the event of such cancellation, and where possible, the College will take reasonable steps to transfer students affected by the cancellation to similar or related programmes of study.
The College asserts its moral rights to the information held on its systems.
Goldsmiths makes no representations or warranties, either express or implied, as to the accuracy of the information in these pages or its fitness for any purpose whatsoever.
Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure the accuracy of the information in these pages, their content is naturally subject to change.
In no event will Goldsmiths be held liable for any direct, indirect, special incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use of the information held on this server.
To help provide users with information that will be relevant to them we occasionally link to external websites.
The College is not responsible or liable for the accuracy or reliability of any of the information in external websites.
Similarly, we are also not responsible for websites that link to us.
See our Data Protection section and Privacy Notices for how we manage data on individuals.
Goldsmiths, University of London is the operational name for Goldsmiths' College.
Goldsmiths' College, New Cross, London SE14 6NW is an exempt charity and a company incorporated by Royal Charter (England and Wales) - company number RC000715.
Royal Charter companies are not obliged to register any documents with Companies House.
Our VAT registration number is 206 3577 72.
The College's name - Goldsmiths, University of London - and its logo and avatar are registered trademarks.
Other product and company names mentioned on this website may be the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information/statements-reports/slavery-and-human-trafficking:
Goldsmiths’ Modern Slavery statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes Goldsmiths’ slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2022.
This statement provides and update on actions taken by the College in the past 12 months and priorities for the coming 12 months to demonstrate Goldsmiths’ continuing commitment to the highest level of ethical standards and sound governance arrangements.
The governing body of the College is Council, which is composed of a mixture of independent (lay) members, members of staff of the College, and representatives of the Students' Union.
The College is a charitable body established by Royal Charter, and as trustees of the charity members of Council must ensure that its funds are applied to the objectives defined in the Charter.
The Senior Management Team (SMT) are responsible for overseeing the academic and administrative leadership of the university.
Each member has responsibility for managing different areas from strategic development to academic development.
The College engages with a large number of private and public sector organizations in the pursuit of our strategic objectives.
These procurement activities take place mainly in England; and our contractors and suppliers are predominantly UK and EU based.
Our total impactable spend* (including Capital) for 21/22 was c.
£37.3m.
* spend figure has been adjusted to exclude the following categories:-
Where possible we access frameworks set up by regional or national purchasing consortia eg London University Purchasing Consortia (LUPC) and Crown Commercial Service (CCS) for goods and services required in the pursuit of our core business.
In 21/22 year we procured circa £6.25m (circa 16.8% of our impactable spend) through such framework agreements covering the following the categories:
The use of pre-negotiated Frameworks enables the College to call off non-core services knowing that supplier’s credentials have been tested during the selection process.
The LUPC also state that they are committed to supporting the UK Government’s national Action Plan to implement the UN Guiding principles on Business and Human rights, and they have already identified material risks in the IT Hardware and Estates Services categories where Hardware originates from East Asia, China, India, Eastern Europe, Mexico and Cleaning & Security services resourced from the UK.
As the IT and Estates categories account for circa 57% of the College’s total impact-able spend they are also the areas where we will continue to concentrate our efforts over the next 12 months.
Goldsmiths expects its 1st Tier Suppliers to ensure their goods, materials and labour-related supply chains are:
Modern slavery is real.
It is happening here in the UK, in our communities.
It is a largely unseen crime, with victims hidden in takeaways, hotels, car washes, nail-bars and private homes as well as factories, farms and brothels.
The Home Office predicts that there may be as many as 13,000 victims in the UK alone.
There is no typical victim of slavery.
Victims can be men, women and children of all ages and cut across the population , but it is normally more prevalent amongst the most vulnerable, minority or socially excluded groups.
Goldsmiths (the College) accepts that it has a responsibility to ensure that its workers are not being exploited, that they are safe and that relevant employment, health and safety and human rights laws and standards are being adhered to, including freedom of movement and communications.
It further accepts that it has a responsibility to make efforts to ensure that the workers of those organisations with which it partners are not being exploited, that they are safe and that relevant employment, health and safety and human rights laws and standards are being adhered to, including freedom of movement and communications.
The prevention, detection and reporting of modern slavery in any part of the College’s supply chains, whether in the UK or abroad, is the responsibility of all those working for the College whether directly or indirectly, including employees at all levels, directors, officers, agency workers, agents, contractors, consultants and strategic partners.
Goldsmiths’ Council has overall responsibility for ensuring that this policy complies with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Line managers, Heads of Departments and Directors are responsible for ensuring that those reporting to them understand and comply with this policy.
If you believe may have come across an instance of modern slavery or if you are unsure about whether a particular act, the treatment of workers or their working conditions within the College’s supply chain constitutes any of the various forms of modern slavery, please raise it with any member of the Procurement Team as soon as possible.
If it is not possible to speak to the Procurement team please contact the Government’s Modern Slavery Helpline on 08000 121 700 for further guidance on what to do.
Goldsmiths will support anyone who raises genuine concerns in good faith under this policy, even if they turn out to be mistaken.
Training will be provided to staff as necessary, to improve awareness and help identify exploitation and modern slavery.
Goldsmiths may terminate its commercial relationship with suppliers if they are found to have knowingly allowed the continuation of any instance of modern slavery in their supply chains where it was in their power to act on this.
Download the signed Modern Slavery Statement 2022 (PDF)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/contact/form:
We will only contact you in relation to this enquiry.
Read our Privacy Notices to understand how we will use what you send us.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/centres-units:
These are physical spaces where colleagues located in a range of different departments can come together to work in a collaborative manner.
The great majority of research at Goldsmiths is carried out in such research centres and units.
In general, research units tend to be embedded within a single department whilst research centres tend to be collaborations between two or more different departments.
An exciting, innovative space where theory, practice and an interest in Asia come together.
Supporting practice-based interdisciplinary research, new approaches and strategies to ecological issues.
We enable, explore and curate critical processes that effect social change through a variety of ways and means.
We bring together scholars and practitioners from different disciplines who are working on and with the body.
Offering a platform for evidence-based evaluations of Britain’s interactions with the EU and its institutions.
Collaborative work within Caribbean and Diaspora Studies and the study of Caribbean and diasporic literatures.
Research that addresses pressing societal issues and generates knowledge that informs policy, theory and practice.
Working in different languages and specialisms, researching in cross-cultural and interdisciplinary humanities.
Home for the interdisciplinary study of planetary, health, and social changes shaping large swathes of life on earth.
Bringing together an international community working in the highly distinctive field, from antiquity to the present.
A dynamic feminist community providing a forum for discussion of equality and diversity at Goldsmiths.
Examining and researching the link between education and social inequality.
CISP is at the forefront of researching the interplay between science, technology, society and the environment.
Discovering how language and culture are integral to learning processes.
Looking at how journalism is changing, and how the media can be reformed.
Initiating and promoting research into all aspects of the theory and practice of creative writing and performance.
A space for rigorous dialogue and production which aligns with a trans-disciplinary orientation of philosophy.
PERC is a centre for cultural and political analysis of economic life.
Seeking to provide a forum for those engaged in pushing Postcolonialism into new domains.
We bring together scholars, activists, and community members to create a global hub for queer history research.
Using spatial practices to investigate politics, media, ecology, and human rights.
Encouraging research into and the performance of Russian music.
The centre maps the diversity of thinking across the sonic landscape.
The future of democracy is inseparable from the capacities of media.
We think creatively and radically about the Balkans, and conduct world-leading research.
Urban research in collaboration with local communities, from Deptford to Jakarta.
Learning from artists, curators and filmmakers who work in creative and practice-based research.
The home of new writing, debate about literature and more at Goldsmiths.
John Baily, Head of AMU, has a strong commitment to the music of Afghanistan.
A hub for research into the diverse musical cultures of Asia and Asian diasporas in London and beyond.
Embracing contemporary music, fostering a broad and inclusive approach to research.
Engaging technoscientific and environmental matters of care and concern.
Collaborating with others to take part in and understand the changes computing is making to all forms of life.
A centre of excellence linking research, policy and practice in the field of faith-based social action.
Hub for research on the relationship between psychological science and the criminal justice system.
Studying the legal and ethical implications of contemporary global social change.
The Kitchen Research Unit explores food and cooking through practice research.
The promotion of exploratory forms of engagement.
Putting new ideas into play, and being put into play by ideas.
Addressing issues of significance to musicians, industries, voluntary and state organisations and the public.
Using multi-disciplinary research approaches in the areas of social development, behavioural difficulties and learning.
SPR is a research group that integrates and advances the innovative activities of EMS composers and researchers.
The economy as a system: interdependencies, structural change and income distribution.
Exploring the ways topology provides a language for understanding relationships, intensities and transformations.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/cucr:
Find out about the Centre for Urban and Community Research.
CUCR researchers are made up of academics across disciplines at Goldsmiths as well as the crucial work done by Visiting Fellows.
See a broad range of work by unit members such as books, book chapters, practice research outputs and articles.
Read more about some of the ongoing projects that CUCR researchers are dedicated to.
See all of the upcoming and past events from the Centre for Urban and Community Research.
The Centre for Urban and Community Research sits within the Department of Sociology.
Please send any enquiries to the department.
Listen to the StreetSigns Podcast on Soundcloud .
Read more about recent work from the centre on the StreetSigns blog .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/cucr/research:
Community, multiculture and the arts are the centrepieces of our research
CUCR have recently established a new cluster of researchers, activists and artists, interested in the role of water in city life.
A major new study is to examine the impact of Brexit on the lives of the estimated 1.2 million British citizens living in other European Union member states.
A multi-method ethnographic study of a bowling alley in the heart of a fast changing urban neighbourhood in London.
Professor Caroline Knowles has been awarded a Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship to conduct a three-year investigation into the city’s Serious Money.
Mapping the impact of Jamaican music on the UK with the Black Music Research Unit.
This project uses digital storytelling as a means to increase the active usage of ICT by older citizens.
Digital storytelling is an engaging and unusual approach to ICT training.
Skills Exchange was a collaborative art and social research project that took place between January 2007 and April 2012.
Solving the interaction gap between older people, planners, experts and general citizens within the Thames Gateway from May 2007 to October 2008.
Creative Families is an innovative early-intervention arts programme for parents experiencing mental health difficulties and their children aged under-five in Southwark.
The ten projects examine the significance of religion in contemporary social life, as well as exploring the social and cultural impacts of recent religious growth points.
Signs of the City involves working with young people through artistic and photographic practice.
Brings together cultural exchange with artistic research in a multi-layered network project on visionary practices for sustainable cities.
Silver Stories will develop a network designed to connect practice to professional training through a series of specific interventions.
We will profile a group of neighbourhoods to understand more about them and develop and evidence positions on the super-rich's urban life and society.
Rethinking power, place and encounter through the Peckham skyline, funded by the British Academy and Leverhulme Small Grant Scheme.
The idea is to explore ways of using social media in order to enable audiences to interact with performances creatively.
Crossing Lines is an on-going forum for collaboration between photographers & researchers whose central interest is the urban situation, its constituents & its dynamics.
This project is about how the past and the present coexist and how migrants live among both of them.
The project investigates the sorts of risk involved in the construction of markets in China.
It is qualitative, sociological research based on six detailed case studies.
Translating Beijing will address two central questions: Who are the British migrants in Beijing?
And, how do they 'do' migration?
This project analysed current theories of individualisation and the fashion for selfrepresentation on ‘reality’ television programmes.
We have been working to help the housing association sector understand its impact on communities and develop ways of systematically measuring this.
Through fieldwork and photography, we unpacked the biography and hidden social substance of the flip-flop from raw material to disposal stage.
Investigating the link between economic survival, language, and migrants in the UK who live in communities where English is not spoken or needed.
The evaluation of an innovative new training programme which is being developed and delivered by the London Leading for Help Partnership (LLfHP).
The Taking Part ESRC research cluster for developing  high quality research and a critical mass around active citizenship and community empowerment with the Third Sector.
To establish a framework that will advance the way in which we talk about the value of cultural engagement and the methods by which we evaluate that value.
This project asks the question 'What is the Science of sex and gender?' The project is engaged with bioscientific understandings of sex and transexuality.
This research explores new modes of inhabiting, imagining and making cities from progressive black and culturally diverse perspectives.
This AHRC Cultural Value Expert Workshop arose out of an awareness of a body of literature.
Active Learning for active citizenship in the voluntary and community sectors is central to the achievement of the Home Office vision for our communities.
Is a national sports-based social inclusion programme for young people, aged 10-19, offering opportunities to engage in employment, education and training.
Neighbourhood Management is a method for improving service delivery in local areas.
It works by bringing together all the agencies.
This research examined the way in which professional workers negotiate the conflicting interests, commitments and values of other professionals.
The Local Knowledge for Local Solutions was about residents of communities developing the research skills to develop solutions to problems in their areas.
An Action Research Programme for the evaluation of the Pepys Community Forum SRB programme.
The Creekside SRB partnership aims to regenerate the Creekside riverfront area of the Thames that straddles the London Boroughs of Lewisham and Greenwich.
Young People, Community, Safety and Racial Danger (1996-1998).
Deptford City Challenge Evaluation Project was based at CUCR and was the largest single evaluation of any of the City Challenge partnerships.
Listen to our latest StreetSigns podcast on Soundcloud:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/why-goldsmiths:
Immerse yourself in a subject you love in a friendly campus university
From inspiring academics and supportive staff to its engaged students, the people at Goldsmiths form an energetic community that wants to change things for the better.
We aim to create a welcoming atmosphere where you're free to be yourself and explore your interests.
And because we're in London (QS, Best Student City 2024), we've built connections with some of the capital's leading creative and cultural organisations, giving you access to exciting opportunities while you study.
Read more of our students' experiences at Goldsmiths .
Being in a space where art can be studied alongside Economics was a factor that I found interesting as I felt it stimulated different parts of my brain.
Idowu A Isaac Ojo, BA Economics
Find out why some of our current students decided to study at Goldsmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/ug:
Our undergraduate degree courses are anything but prescriptive.
Every day we’re researching, teaching, and discovering – but we can’t do this alone.
Come with an inquisitive mind and an open heart and create the learning landscape you want to see.
Find out why you should study an undergraduate degree at Goldsmiths.
Explore our A-Z of all undergraduate courses available at Goldsmiths.
Information about tuition fees, student loans, bursaries and scholarships.
If you are an international student, visit our dedicated pages for more information.
If you are a school student considering coming to university visit our guide for up-to-date information and advice.
All you need to know about applying to undergraduate programmes at Goldsmiths.
Order an undergraduate prospectus.
Find out how you can meet us, whether its in person or online:
A-Z of programmes
Order a prospectus

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/pg:
We offer postgraduate degrees in subjects covering the arts, humanities, social sciences, cultural studies, computing, and entrepreneurial business and management.
Find out why you should study a postgraduate degree at Goldsmiths.
Explore our A-Z of all postgraduate courses available at Goldsmiths.
All you need to know about applying to postgraduate programmes at Goldsmiths.
Order a postgraduate prospectus.
Research degrees
PGCE
Find out more about Goldsmiths

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/preparation:
Our preparation courses aim to prepare international students from all over the world for studying in the UK.
We offer courses at all study levels including pre-sessional English language courses, International Foundation Certificates, and pre-masters pathways.
Find out why you should study a preparation course at Goldsmiths.
Which preparation course is the right option for you.
Everything you need to know about accommodation available to preparation students.
Visit our dedicated pages for more information on studying at Goldsmiths as an international student.
Experience the Centre for Academic Language and Literacies at Goldsmiths.
Centre for Academic Language and Literacies
Accommodation

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/pgce:
Goldsmiths has made an important contribution to the education of the nation's teachers since the early 1900s, and has established a reputation for excellence in teacher training.
Discover how you can start your teaching journey with us.
Find out why you should study a PGCE course at Goldsmiths.
Explore our A-Z of all teacher training courses available at Goldsmiths.
All you need to know about applying for PGCE programmes at Goldsmiths.
PGCE Primary
PGCE Secondary (Standard Programme)
PGCE Secondary (Part-time Programme)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/distancelearning:
Our distance learning courses combine our expertise and the flexibility to study wherever you live or work.
Since 1858, the University of London has offered a variety of distance learning programmes to students who can’t attend the university in person.
There are currently more than 100 programmes available, with over 50,000 students enrolled worldwide.
Former students and alumni include Asa Briggs, Nelson Mandela, Wole Soyinka and Derek Walcott.
In association with the University of London, Goldsmiths is responsible for two subject areas: Computing and English.
Our academics design the syllabus for each course or module, develop the learning materials and mark examinations.
Although you’ll be studying remotely, you can get support from teaching intuitions, some of which are recognised by the University of London’s Teaching Centres Recognition Framework.
All of our distance learning degrees and diplomas are awarded by the University of London.
University of London staff manage all student administration, including enquiries, applications, registration and the dispatch of some student materials.
Further information about the programmes is available in the Computing & Information Systems and Creative Computing or Humanities prospectuses.
Explore what qualifications are available via distance learning at Goldsmiths.
Read our full listing of distance and flexible learning courses.
Find out how to get further information about the University of London programmes at Goldsmiths.
Find out about Computing distance and flexible learning programmes available at Goldsmiths.
Find out about Data Science distance and flexible learning programmes at Goldsmiths.
Find out about English distance and flexible learning programmes available at Goldsmiths

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/apply:
We have different application processes depending on what course or programme you're applying for.
Make sure you check programme pages to find out if the programme you're interested in has a specific application process.
You make your application through UCAS , an online application system.
This includes International students.
Our UCAS institution code is G56 and the institution name is GOLD.
Applications open on 1 September for entry the following September.
The normal closing date for UCAS applications is the last Wednesday of January but many courses will accept applications until 30 June.
You should refer to individual programme pages to see whether your course is one of these, and to see whether there are any additional application requirements.
Get help with your application
Read our guide to making an undergraduate application to find out more about writing a personal statement that stands out, understanding the offer we've made you and working out what to do next.
For most postgraduate programmes you can apply via our website by clicking the ‘apply now’ button on the programme page of the course you’re interested in.
Exceptions to this are our PGCE programmes where you are required to apply through UCAS Teacher Training, and our MA in Social Work where you must also apply through UCAS.
Some programmes have particular application procedures, so always check the relevant programme page first.
Find out more about making your postgraduate application, including the differences between applying for a taught and research degree, on our postgraduate application pages .
You can apply for one of our PGCE programmes through the UCAS Teacher Training website .
Our institution code is G56 GOLD.
Find out how to make an application to study a PGCE at Goldsmiths
Sometimes our courses might have different application processes for international students.
Check out our guidance on applying as an international student.
If you're a Study Abroad student then please visit our Study Abroad application pages .
Want to speak to someone about your application?
If you've already made an application, please speak to our Admissions Team by calling +44 (0)20 7078 5300 and selecting option 1 for Admissions, or email admissions@gold.ac.uk
If you'd like to enquire about a course before you make an application, please speak to our Course Enquiries Team by calling +44 (0)20 7078 5300 and selecting option 2 for Course Enquiries, or email course-info@gold.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/fees-funding:
Find out about tuition fees and funding options available using the links below.
See our undergraduate, postgraduate PGCE funding opportunities.
Use our course finder to find out how much your programme will cost.
Find out about other funding opportunities including student loans and external funding options.
From departmental awards to PhD studentships, there are multiple alternative funding opportunities.
Advice for international students on funding opportunities whilst studying.
Advice on how much it will cost you to study abroad in London.
From discretionary funding to Initial Teacher Training bursaries find out what funding you can get for your PGCE.
Find out about the discretionary support we provide for current students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/study/order-prospectus:
Please fill out the form below to see our prospectus.
You'll also receive news and updates about studying with us, funding opportunities, accommodation, and application advice.
Your browser needs JavaScript enabled to access this form.
Also, if you have blocked third party cookies, that could also affect your access to this form.
Please check your browser settings.
Alternatively, email course-info@gold.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/skills-careers:
At Goldsmiths, innovation is at the heart of what we do.
Our politically challenging and creative approach to learning gives our students the skills and confidence to do things differently.
A degree at Goldsmiths gives you the chance to find your niche, find your passion, and find your future.
We caught up with some of our alumni about how their degree at Goldsmiths has impacted their career journey.
Our Careers Service can help you find your future career and provide support.
We have connections with a huge range of industry partners.
Many of our degrees offer the opportunity to do placements.
Many of our graduates set up their own businesses after graduating.
Find out about the skills your degree will teach you with our subject-specific careers guides.
Find out what careers you could explore after your Anthropology degree.
Discover career opportunities for Art graduates.
Read about career opportunities for those who have studied Computing.
Find out what jobs you could do after finishing your Design degree.
Discover potential career paths after studying English and Creative Writing.
Find out more about careers in Education.
There are a number of different jobs available to History graduates.
Find out about becoming a lawyer and other career options.
Discover careers in Management.
Explore your career options in Media, Communications & Cultural Studies.
A degree in Music can result in multiple career paths.
There are lots of career options in Politics and International Relations.
A Psychology degree can lead to a career in various areas.
Explore what career opportunities a degree in Sociology could lead to.
From social to community work, there are plenty of options for graduates.
Discover potential careers after studying Theatre and Performance.
A degree in Visual Cultures can lead to a variety of careers.
Watch our video on how Goldsmiths offers you one bright future, and a world of possibility
Being exposed to many high-quality employers gave ample opportunity to network.
Connecting with one of the guest speakers, I have continued to work with her on various projects since I have left university.
Caroline, MA Events & Experience Management

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges:
We work closely with schools and colleges both locally and nationally to promote Goldsmiths and offer guidance to prospective university students.
How we can help teachers and careers advisers support their students considering higher education.
Advice and information to help students make an informed decision about going to university.
Learn more about what Widening Participation means to Goldsmiths
Meet our teams and find out more about the work we do with schools and colleges.
We're committed to working with mature students and students in our local community to improve access to higher education.
Fill out our enquiry form with any questions or to learn more about the support and activities we offer.
Find out about the work we do with post-16 (Key stage 5) students
Explore the activities we offer for pre-16 (Key stage 2-4) students.
Learn about the priority groups that we work with in Widening Participation including mature students, care-experienced and estranged students, and refugees.
We work with our Fine Art department to run an annual summer school for students in Year 12 who are interested in studying creative courses at university.
A series of webinars showcasing interactive lectures from our academics.
For students in Years 12-13.
Our three writing competitions aiming to uncover the next generation of writing talent.
For students ages 16-18.
A free interactive workshop for year 12s, which will demystify all things Higher Education.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/summer-schools:
We run a range of summer schools, from improving skills to providing a taste of university life, find out which could be right for you.
A month-long opportunity to study at a world-renowned institution in London.
Learn from industry professionals and develop your Musical Theatre skills in the West-End's home.
A free, fine art, studio-based, 10-day, non-residential summer school for UK students in Years 12 or 13.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/support:
Whenever you need help or advice, there’s always someone to turn to at Goldsmiths.
Throughout your studies and even after your graduation, we're on hand to help you achieve your academic and personal goals, prepare for your future and resolve any difficulties that you may encounter.
Explore the links below to find out more about our support services.
Our Student Services department can help you during your studies:
Counselling services
Wellbeing drop-in service
Support our Students’ Union can offer
Trans/non-binary support
Find local healthcare
There is a range of support available to help you achieve your best throughout your time at Goldsmiths:
Subject and study support
Careers Service
We’re here to help make arriving at Goldsmiths and adjusting to life in London as easy as possible:
Everything you need to know when you arrive
Information for international students
Find out about the types of student funding available, including scholarships, bursaries and loans.
Find out more about the support we offer to disabled students from facilities to mentoring.
Goldsmiths Students’ Union manages a nursery for children aged between 3 months and 5 years.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/study/studying-locally:
Are you a Londoner considering going to university locally rather than studying away from home?
Staying local to study is becoming an increasingly popular option for students applying to university.
Being closer to home can be very beneficial, at Goldsmiths we already have many students from London or the South East who have decided to commute.
Whether you have been thinking about studying in London for a long time or have considered it in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is important to work out if this is the right option for you.
We have compiled a few key benefits for choosing to study locally at Goldsmiths.
Staying local could help to keep down costs as you are already familiar with your outgoings and won't need to move.
If you are staying in London for university it is likely you will still be living with your parent or guardian, creating savings as you will not have to pay for student accommodation.
Living at home doesn't mean you need to miss out on gaining some independence – you could offer to give your family a small amount of rent, or set some house rules so you can help out with chores.
Staying local doesn't mean you have to live at home for the length of your degree.
If you still aren't sure whether to stay at home or move out, we have more information about both options here .
If you are already living close to Goldsmiths you can save on travel by being able to walk to university.
However, if you live further afield in London or the Greater London area, Goldsmiths is located in New Cross which has great travel links, with New Cross and New Cross Gate overground stations both less than a five-minute walk from the campus.
A number of buses also help you to reach different parts of the city easily.
More information on travelling to Goldsmiths can be found on our plan your journey page.
You may already have a part-time job near your home in London before you start studying.
If you stay local you may be able to maintain your current employment even after you start at Goldsmiths, which will help give you a little extra cash to enjoy life at university.
Just remember to make sure your work doesn't conflict with any of your scheduled teaching once you start studying.
Louis and Beth share their tips for managing your money
London is currently ranked as the best student city in the world (QS Best Student Cities 2025) so why move away when this is already on your doorstep?
You are probably already well aware of the wealth of amazing experiences available to you in London, but you could add to this with Goldsmiths' close connections with some of the capital's leading creative and cultural organisations , which could provide you with exciting opportunities throughout your studies.
Our location in New Cross, South-East London has plenty going on with a diverse community, great live music, coffee shops, pubs and a fantastic arts scene for you to get involved in.
You are also close by to a host of green spaces and interesting locations including Greenwich, Peckham and Shoreditch.
We are also not far from the city centre, with central London only five miles away.
You can find out more about the local area, including some of our favourite spots in our local area guides .
Watch our students talking about their favourite places in London
One of the hardest things for students starting university is usually saying goodbye to family and friends.
If you choose to study locally then this is a problem you won't have to face.
You can maintain regular contact with your loved ones, and involve them in your life at university.
But don't miss out on making new friends.
There will be lots of opportunities to socialise and make friends with students from around the world, either on your course or during wider university events.
The Students' Union offers a range of societies you can join to extend your hobbies.
If you are studying locally you will easily be able to introduce friends old and new, adding even more fun to your existing social life.
We have a mix of students living at home, in halls and renting privately, but we think they all should have access to the same support.
During Welcome Week (before the start of every academic year) there are events run by the college and the SU specifically for commuting students, to help them meet people and make connections.
Whatever your living arrangements, our Campus Support Officers will offer you friendly support when you need it, from 6pm – 6am every evening, and at weekends.
For information on the other support available, take a look at our Wellbeing pages .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/study/contact:
How to get in touch with us if you have any questions or need help.
If you have already applied to Goldsmiths, please contact our Admissions team .
If you haven’t applied to Goldsmiths yet and have a question, please contact our Course Enquiries team .
If you have already enrolled, please contact your academic department with any queries about your studies.
If you have already applied and have a question about your application, you should contact our Admissions team:
Read more about the types of requests the Admissions team can help you with.
If you have not applied to us yet, but have a question about one of our programmes or studying at Goldsmiths, you should contact our Course Enquiries team:
Search our scholarship finder to see what funding is currently available.
Contact and application details are listed on the pages for each bursary and scholarships.
See our pages on accommodation or:
To chat with our students and find out more about university life, visit our Unibuddy page .
Goldsmiths, University of London New Cross London SE14 6NW United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/study/careers-support:
Our Careers Service supports you throughout your studies at Goldsmiths, helping to identify your future career and develop your skills.
The Goldsmiths Careers Service can help you develop new skills, get valuable work experience, and access expert advice.
You can book one-to-one appointments with careers consultants, get your CV or LinkedIn profile checked, and practise your interview technique.
You can also search our databases to find jobs and paid internship opportunities.
We run regular careers fairs, events on everything from networking to freelancing, and industry panel discussions where you can hear from professionals working in sectors like marketing, management, the media, publishing and the arts.
It’s a great way to get inspiration about the kinds of careers you might be interested in.
If you would prefer to work for yourself in the future, we offer lots of support and advice around setting up a business and developing your enterprise skills.
Finding entry-level work opportunities can be difficult but the Goldsmiths Careers website is a great help for students looking for the perfect job.
Leticia, BA Arts Management
We offer several programmes to help support students with their professional development and future careers.
When you graduate from Goldsmiths you get more than a degree, you also get a HEAR transcript, which you can share with future employers.
This records your academic results and your other achievements including co-curricular activities, university prizes and other awards.
Find out more about how you can use HEAR .
The Gold Award is a personal and professional development programme to help you to identify current skills and develop new ones via co-curricular activities to carry out alongside your studies.
Explore more information on how the programme works .
You can gain work experience during your studies by becoming a Student Ambassador.
It's a great way to gain employability skills during your degree.
You’ll have the chance to earn a competitive hourly rate and work across a broad range of activities at Goldsmiths.
You can read more about the scheme and how to apply .
The Gold Award is a great opportunity to boost your future career prospects while studying
Goldsmiths is committed to preparing its students for their futures – whether that’s through our interdisciplinary courses that challenge you to see the world differently or through dedicated careers support.
Our graduates go on to do many exciting things: starting their own businesses; working for media agencies; continuing to study and so much more, as can be seen in the Graduate Outcomes Survey (GOS) results.
The GOS was published by HESA ( Higher Education Statistics Agency ) in June 2022.
The goal of the GOS is to provide helpful information about how university students progress after graduating, and covers both undergraduate and postgraduate students.
The survey is based on students' experience 15 months after graduation, which means it can provide a good understanding of graduate destinations and the next steps they take in the year after finishing their course.
Key highlights from the GOS include:
More information about the survey can be found here .
If you want to see where you can find us for support, explore our virtual tour of the Careers Service to take a look at our dedicated site on campus, we look forward to welcoming you in person.
Are you unsure what careers your chosen degree could lead to?
Take a look at our helpful guide to your future after studying at Goldsmiths .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/our-goals:
A solid foundation, to build your future on.
We're reshaping our degrees with you in mind and to respond to the changing world around us.
We've been working hard to redevelop our curriculum and have set out a number of principles that all our programmes are aiming to achieve.
We are offering a distinctive curriculum that reflects our unique values.
Find out how we're creating change for individuals and society through what you'll learn.
We're known globally for student-led exploration and interdisciplinary learning.
Join us as we build on this with new opportunities.
You're unique and we're here to support you in learning your way.
Discover how we're aiding your transition to university.
We want you to succeed, so we're adding clear structure to your learning journey with progression steps at every stage.
Learning should be for everyone, and Goldsmiths is committed to being a truly inclusive and accessible institution, supporting our diverse community.
We're reducing learning barriers by utilising technology to help improve your experience, and give you greater flexibility while studying here.
We're partnering with organisations to provide opportunities in and beyond the classroom, extending your knowledge and experience for the future.
We're embedding employment and transferable skills into our courses to help you prepare for your future.
Explore the opportunities we're making available for our students.
The Connected Curriculum is a series of cross-departmental modules which aim to provide a broad academic context.
Goldsmiths gives you the freedom to build your own path, to pursue your interests or discover new ones, and to learn more about yourself.
Roxane, MA Cultural Policy, Relations & Diplomacy

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/life-on-campus:
London has been voted the best city in the world and is an amazing place to be a student, find out why.
Everything you need to know about student housing, private accommodation, how to apply and more.
Find out about our teaching facilities, food options around campus and socialising.
Watch our video to find out more about our cosy campus in SE London

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/pg/pg-cert-pg-dip:
If you are looking for a short-term postgraduate study option, then a Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert) or Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) could be the perfect choice.
PGCert and PGDip programmes give you the chance to engage with Masters-level thinking and ideas, however, are shorter than regular taught postgraduate courses.
The wide range of subjects we offer at Goldsmiths allows you to enhance your career or learn something new in a flexible way that suits you.
In a nutshell, you can learn the content from a Masters without having to write a dissertation.
On a PGCert you'll study modules equivalent to 60 credits.
The modules studied will depend on the programme you choose.
Modules are often taught over three academic terms or a year as a part-time study option, making the PGCert the shortest postgraduate qualification we offer.
This is a good option to enhance your subject knowledge in a particular area.
Our PGDips are slightly longer than PGCerts, however, still provide greater flexibility than a traditional Masters programme.
You'll study 120 credits worth of modules, which are different depending on your choice of PGDip.
Our programmes usually can be studied over 1 year full-time or 2 years part-time, the course length is specified on individual programme pages.
Please note: we are unable to sponsor students for a student visa on PGCert and PGDip programmes.
Find out about available programmes at Goldsmiths.
Explore PGDip courses at Goldsmiths.
If you are looking for longer term postgraduate study options, we have plenty of programmes.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/wellbeing:
Meet with a wellbeing adviser for advice and support on personal, emotional or mental health issues.
Appointments are via telephone, Microsoft Teams, or in person.
Every night from 6pm-6am ( check for changes ).
Email: campus-support@gold.ac.uk
Include a phone number for a call back.
Help with disabilities including dyslexia, mental health, reasonable adjustments, and advice on DSAs.
Here to help you gain understanding and insight into any difficulties you may be experiencing.
Here for everybody regardless of whatever your beliefs and practices may or may not be.
Report experiences of harassment and find support.
How we can help you with short term difficulties or manage a longer term condition.
Peer mediation is an effective way of addressing conflict between your friends, classmates and university colleagues.
How you can access a doctor/GP near Goldsmiths and get healthcare.
Who you can turn to out of hours or at short notice.
You can also get help from the Students' Union, local and national groups.
Read about our Student Wellbeing Framework - our commitment to your physical and mental wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/careers:
The Careers Service is open between 9.30am and 4.30pm
Email: careers (@gold.ac.uk) Tel: 020 7919 7137
Visit our CareerSPACE jobs board with roles from our approved employers.
Advice from Goldsmiths Careers team on using AI effectively, creatively and responsibly in your job search.
Helping you find flexible work which fits with your studies and lifestyle.
Different ways to find jobs, where to look and how to search job websites.
Make it easy for employers by matching your skills to their requirements.
Show that you have the motivation, skills and experience to successfully do the job.
It can be confusing when you arrive in a new country and navigate a different cultural approach to job hunting.
Ideas for how to begin looking for opportunities when you don’t know what to do.
Develop transferable skills and confidence from co-curricular activities, part-time work and volunteering.
Find help with your decision on postgraduate study at Goldsmiths or elsewhere.
Finding inclusive employers, your rights and what you need to disclose.
Receive career planning support from Goldsmiths' Alumni network.
How you can use Goldsmiths Career Service free for three years after graduating.
Help on moving into teaching or further research, from finding jobs or funding to applying.
A great opportunity to get experience in the type of career you are interested in.
Know your rights, how to get the most out of them and who to contact for help.
What is needed to do international internships and how we can help.
You can be a freelancer, sole trader, partnership, social enterprise or limited company.
Interested in working for yourself?
We can give you advice to get started and help you find funding.
Goldsmiths has a range of funding opportunities, and support to apply for external grants and competitions.
Interested in volunteering?
We can support you in finding volunteering opportunities.
Things to consider when deciding on a volunteering role from the 1000s available in London.
How to find yourself a good quality volunteering role which works around you.
Volunteering not only benefits the organisation you are dedicating your time to, but yourself as well.
The best advice before considering volunteering abroad.
Gain recognition for the additional co-curricular activities you do alongside your studies.
Reflect on your experiences and develop the skills you are gaining from your co-curricular activities.
The role allows you to gain employability skills, enhance your CV and become a key part of the Goldsmiths community.
Talk to us about your career and get help with your job hunt:
We help employers connect and work with our students and graduates:
Get funding to study or work abroad as part of your studies at Goldsmiths:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/halls:
For 2025-26, we will have just under 1,300 rooms in our halls of residence, located either within walking distance or a short commute away.
Find out more about what makes each one unique, and choose the best option for you.
There is also support available to help you find alternative accommodation and there are a number of private halls of residence in the local area.
Join Resident Experience Coordinator Caitlin on a tour of some of the Halls
Part of the Goldsmiths Student Village, this is a postgraduate hall located in New Cross, only a short walk from campus.
Located a short walk from campus in New Cross, this hall is for undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Based on campus in New Cross, for undergraduate students.
For undergraduate and postgraduate students, this hall is a 20-minute commute from campus in Shadwell.
Raymont Hall is in Brockley, a 20-minute walk from campus and part of the Goldsmiths Student Village, for undergraduate and postgraduate students
Part of the Goldsmiths Student Village, this is an undergraduate hall located only a short walk from campus.
For undergraduate and postgraduate students, this hall is part new build, part conversion, and includes original heritage features.
Get a closer look at all of our halls to see what we have to offer.
From facilities to flatmates, explore what life is like in our halls and residence.
Find out about the support that is available to students in Goldsmiths accommodation
Take a look around some of our halls in 360 degrees and explore the Goldsmiths campus.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/apply:
If you require accessible information, please view our online guide.
Please allow around 30 minutes to complete your application.
If you're applying for accommodation for the first time, there are three steps:
You can only apply for halls if you have firmly accepted an academic offer from us, this can be a conditional or unconditional offer .
If Goldsmiths is your insurance choice, you won't be able to apply for accommodation.
Please note: once you've accepted your academic offer, it can take 48-72 hours before you can apply on our accommodation system.
Next, you must create an account on our online system .
You will be required to input:
Once you’ve registered, you will receive a verification email containing a validation code and a link to verify your account.
Please note: It can take up to an hour to recieve the validation code and it may be sent to your junk/spam/filtered inbox.
Adding accommodation@gold.ac.uk to your email contacts may help to ensure you don’t miss any important communication from us.
If you require further assistance, read our guide to registering for accommodation for more information.
Once you have completed your registration, you can log in to the application portal using the account details from the previous step, and select your accommodation options in order of preference.
At this stage, you won't be able to select a specific room or room type.
You will also have the opportunity to tell us about your medical requirements or any other requirements you may have.
Please visit our safety and support page for more information on what you may wish to declare.
We will do our best to accommodate your preferences, but some of our rooms are in high demand, so we cannot guarantee this.
Applications submitted after the deadline will still be considered, but may be initially placed on a waiting list.
Once you have submitted your application, you’ll receive an email confirming this.
You can log back into your account at any time to check the status of your application.
If you require further guidance on making your application, please view our guide to applying for accommodation for more information.
Once your application has been submitted, it will show as 'awaiting verification' until we can make you an offer of accommodation.
Offers of accommodation for 2025-26 will be sent out regularly in batches all through summer and into early autumn.
If you’re offered a place in our student accommodation , we’ll let you know via email.
The email will include information on how to secure your place, including the deadline to accept your offer.
Offers that are not accepted by the deadline will be automatically withdrawn, so please keep an eye on your emails to ensure you do not miss out on the deadline to accept your offer.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate accommodation contracts for 2025-26 will start at 12pm GMT on Friday 19 September 2025.
Once you have secured a place in our student accommodation, you will be able to book a check-in slot to move in over the course of the move-in weekend (19-21 September 2025), this is to help us reduce queues.
Students doing a PGCE are generally able to move in from the start of September in a selected number of halls.
If you apply after the academic year has started, further information will be available with your offer of accommodation.
If we have allocated you a place, you’ll receive an email with information about how to accept your place, how to agree to the terms of the contract, and how to pay your pre-payment or deposit.
The pre-payment is £150 and will go towards your first rent instalment.
It applies to all halls except those in the Goldsmiths Student Village, where a security deposit of £200 is due.
If you’re not allocated a place in halls right away, don’t get disheartened.
We will continually send out offers through the summer months all the way up to when students are due to arrive and we will keep you updated during this time.
Our sections on  and  have some useful information on what you can expect from life in halls.
Once you have secured a place in halls, in the weeks before your arrival we will be in touch with a link to your online induction.
You will also receive a welcome guide and further information on support available, including how to order a bedding or kitchen pack.
If you have any other questions, please  and we will be happy to answer any questions you may have.
Please take time to read and understand the terms of your accommodation agreement, the length of the contract and the information included in your offer.
When you accept an offer of accommodation, you enter into a legally binding contract and there may be financial implications if you then need to cancel the contract, unless you defer your place at Goldsmiths, withdraw from university or are able to find a replacement.
If your circumstances do change before you start you should promptly get in touch with the Accommodation team for advice.
If before receiving an offer of accommodation you would like to withdraw your application, please visit the Dashboard section in the accommodation portal to select and delete the application.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/private:
If you're daunted by the possibility of finding good quality, private sector housing, don't worry.
As a student at Goldsmiths, University of London you can apply to some of the University of London Halls.
Please visit halls.london.ac.uk for more information.
If you are looking for private accommodation, University of London Housing Services offers a range of services to assist and support students who are looking for and living in private accommodation in London.
Renting privately means you can decide where you live, who you share with, and the type of accommodation that suits you best.
As a Goldsmiths student, you’ll have access to the University of London Housing Services ’ property search platform.
This is a site where you can search for available rooms from, private landlords, letting agents and independent halls of residence.
In order to advertise through the database, all providers of housing must sign up to the University of London Housing Services’ Code of Good Practice.
The University of London Housing Services also offer legal advice and a contract checking service .
Every summer they publish a useful housing guide which can give you advice about searching for a place to live and they organise fairs, webinars and other events to help you find private housing.
Goldsmiths works in partnership with Housing Hand to provide a Rent Guarantor Service for students in private accommodation.
We have some accommodation for couples in the ‘En suite double’ rooms at Town Hall Camberwell , hall of residence that can house two full-time students (where at least one student is a Goldsmiths student) where each student gets their own desk and wardrobe in the room.
The double rooms have a private bathroom and the kitchen is shared with other students.
We also have a small number of self-contained studios where a couple share a bed, a desk, a wardrobe, private bathroom and kitchenette:
If you apply for these room types and wish to share then you will have an opportunity in the notes section of the accommodation application to give us the full details of the person you wish to share with, including their full name and confirmation of their student status.
If both residents will be Goldsmiths students, then you will both need to make applications and confirm in the notes you wish to share.
You will also be asked to provide evidence of your full-time student status.
If you're moving with your family, we would strongly advise you to travel to London alone first to find suitable accommodation before your family joins you.
Rooms in our halls are not equipped for families with children, and we are only able to accommodate full-time students.
For students with children then we recommend using the services of the University of London Housing Service who assist and support students who are looking for and living in private accommodation in London.
When searching for accommodation you may wish to keep in mind the  schools and nurseries, as well as the ease of travel on public transport.
A helpful tool for this is the City Mapper website or app , which will give you a good idea of typical travel times (you can use our campus postcode of SE14 6NW when searching).
You may be interested in living in a house share or homestay.
We work closely with Hosts International who offer a number of self-catering rooms in shared houses and catered accommodation in homestays, close to Goldsmiths and bookable on a weekly basis.
HFS London also provide this type of accommodation.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/life-on-campus/london:
Famous for its cultural life and diversity, London has been voted the world's number one city to be a student (QS Best Student Cities 2025).
We have world-famous galleries, museums, theatres, festivals, shops, markets and parks for you to explore – many of them for free.
If you're looking for quality of life and a vibrant mix of people, in a place that's constantly changing and offering up new experiences; then this great global city is the perfect venue for your studies.
Goldsmiths' single-site campus is based in New Cross in South East London, find out about what it is like here.
To help you settle into London life, we've highlighted some of the great activities you can explore across South East London
Choosing to study in London will also improve your career prospects.
You'll have the centre of business and creative industries on your doorstep.
If you want to find out what is going on in London there are lots of websites which share the latest events:
Find out more about what student life is like at Goldsmiths:
Norhan and Alex share their top tips for life in London

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/area-guides:
Our location in vibrant New Cross means that there's plenty to keep you occupied right here on your doorstep.
But if you want to venture further afield, we're also surrounded by a whole host of amazing places in South and East London that are filled with museums, shops, bars, cafes, restaurants, green spaces, and even London's coolest high street .
Read our area guides below to find out more about our neighbourhood, and places you can explore locally.
Find out more about the local area and what it's like living and studying in London.
Our guide to South East London introduces you to our neighbourhood, and places you can explore locally.
Discover unique study spaces across London and find new sources of inspiration.
Explore our highlights of free things to do in London, from street art to tropical jungles.
Take a look at some of the green spaces in and around South East London.
Explore arts and cultural highlights on Goldsmiths’ doorstep.
From boutique markets to Europe’s busiest shopping street, read our guide to shopping in London.
Find out what life is like in our local area from current students Shani and Jacob.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/ug/mature-students:
Applying to university, studying on campus, and taking part in student life is different for everyone.
As a mature student, you may have lots of questions about returning to study, managing university commitments alongside your job or caring responsibilities, and wondering if everyone else you meet on campus will be fresh out of college.
At Goldsmiths, about half of our students are aged over 21 and we’ve been talking to them, and to staff, about what you need to know.
Visiting campus, either on your own or with family and friends, is the best way to see what Goldsmiths has to offer.
You can come to an open day or a campus tour .
If you have any questions about our courses, returning to study or student life as a mature student, please contact our Course Enquiries team .
If you have any questions about applying for a course, please get in contact with our Admissions team .
If you would like some advice and guidance about your personal statement, please contact the Widening Participation team .
We're committed to working with mature students and students in our local community to improve access to higher education for local and mature learners.
Find out more about our Progression Agreements and how they impact local and mature learners.
Explore our range of programmes using the course finder
To apply for a full-time undergraduate programme you will need to apply via the UCAS website .
This can be done online by setting up an account and completing the online application form.
You can apply for up to five programmes on your UCAS form, once you have submitted the form, UCAS will send it out to all your choices.
Once Goldsmiths has received your application we will assess your suitability for the programme.
This can sometimes require you to attend an interview or submit a portfolio, but for most our programmes your application will be enough.
We will let you know our decision and you will be able to see it on your UCAS Track.
For some of our undergraduate programmes we offer a part-time study option.
If you wish to apply for part-time study you can do so directly on the Goldsmiths website.
Simply click on the apply now button on the programme page to be taken through to the application form.
The entry requirements for studying at Goldsmiths for mature students are the same as the general entry requirements.
We are sometimes able to take work or other experience into consideration for mature students but we also need to ensure that students will cope with the academic aspects of our programmes.
The programme pages list the most common qualifications and grades accepted but we will consider many more UK and international qualifications at the same level.
If you are unsure whether your qualifications will make you eligible to apply please contact the Admissions office.
For applicants who do not meet the academic entry requirements for a programme, there are a range of options for you including four year integrated degree programmes and Access to HE programmes (which you can take a further education colleges).
To find out more about the integrated degree programmes (including a foundation year) we offer, please contact the Course Enquiries team .
We have a range of four-year integrated degree programmes that include a foundation year and have no specific entry requirements.
Our integrated degree programmes are:
For some of these programmes we may ask for additional information to assess suitability for the programme (such as a sample of written work).
These are good options if you do not have any qualifications or your qualifications/grades do not meet the minimum entry requirements.
Our BA Education, Culture and Society and BA Applied Social Science, Community and Youth Work programmes are also very popular among mature applicants interested in education or who have experience of community work.
These programmes have much more flexible entry requirements and can consider a range of qualifications and grades.
Mature students are defined as anyone over the age of 21 when they start their course.
All of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses welcome applications from mature students.
Please use our course finder to explore the different subjects we offer .
Of course.
As most postgraduate studies are taken after students complete their undergraduate programme, students are typically over 21-years-old already (although you are not considered a mature student within a postgraduate study context).
There are countless sports clubs, societies and communities to join (from the Chess Society to the Badminton Club, or the Gardening Society and the student-run Leopard Newspaper).
Around Goldsmiths there is a bustling local community with restaurants from a wide range of cuisines, local pubs and drinking venues, and several live music venues to enjoy the local nightlife.
Our campus is located in New Cross, Deptford which is just 10 minutes to London Bridge by train giving you fantastic access to all that London has to offer.
London is voted the world’s best student city in the world.
(QS Best Student Cities Ranking 2025).
Local areas to Goldsmiths includes Greenwich (where you can enjoy the internationally famous Greenwich Market or enjoy unspoilt panoramic views across London’s skyline from Greenwich Park) as well as Peckham which is home to a busy high-street full of small shops and quirky places to meet friends.
If you haven’t been studying for a while, developing academic study skills can seem daunting.
Goldsmiths’ Student Support team are dedicated to supporting you through your studies and the Academic Skills Centre runs a comprehensive range of study skills workshops and sessions.
You can access some of their skills tutorials here.
Many of our mature students work part-time either for a local employer or for Goldsmiths, as a student ambassador.
As an ambassador they get involved in a range of projects and events such as mentoring school students, meeting visitors at university open days, visiting schools and colleges, and providing admin support to different teams across the university.
Goldsmiths has several different accommodation offerings for students on both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
Mature students apply for student accommodation in the same way as all other students.
You can find out more information about our student accommodation and how to apply for it by visiting our student accommodation section .
We typically house students who are studying an undergraduate degree and a postgraduate degree separately.
During your application for student accommodation, you will be able to let us know if you would prefer to live with other students who identify as having a quieter lifestyle or have any other requirements of sharing preference.
The Accommodation team will do their best to accommodate requests but these will be subject to availability.
Financial support varies depending on if you are studying an undergraduate or postgraduate course and if you are studying full-time or part-time.
Undergraduate students can apply for a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan.
You can learn more about these on the GOV.UK website .
There is also additional financial support available for students with low household incomes or students with children or dependent adults.
Postgraduate students can apply for a loan that can be used to cover tuition fees and living costs.
Goldsmiths has a number of scholarships and bursaries available to help students during their studies.
You can learn more about these for undergraduate courses and for postgraduate courses.
Once you're a Goldsmiths student you can apply for a TOTUM card from the NUS (National Union of Students), which gets you money off things like cinema tickets, shopping, eating out, fitness, and entry to museums and galleries.
Most full-time and some part-time students can apply for an 18+ Student Oyster card which provides 30% off travel costs in London.
If you will be travelling around the UK, a 16-25 Railcard is a good option as it's available to all students in full-time education, including mature students.
It will save you 30% off train tickets and you can add it to your Oyster card and receive a discount on off-peak pay-as-you-go travel in London.
Goldsmiths Students’ Union has a nursery on campus with 25 places for children aged 3 months to 5 years and a daily or weekly fee is charged, depending on how many days children are in nursery.
Full-time students can apply for a Childcare grant, subject to eligibility.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/ug/a-z:
An A-Z of our undergraduate degrees
On this degree you'll explore anthropology from fresh, contemporary perspectives.
In an increasingly media-based world, this programme will equip you with the digital media production skills required to create contemporary anthropologically and socially informed work.
A multidisciplinary degree where you are taught counselling and psychotherapy practices but also learn about the social and cultural contexts of their production.
This programme will equip you for working in the arts and cultural industries, with a specific focus on management in the arts.
This degree will advance your knowledge of contemporary art and nurture your skills for a career in curating and curatorial practice.
Design isn’t just a way of making and doing; it’s a way of understanding and engaging with the world.
Train as an actor and artist in your own right.
Experience and enjoy a wide range of roles alongside opportunities to direct, write and produce.
This programme is for theatre artists who want to design and deliver innovative work through technical practice, creative vision and technological confidence.
The BA Drama and Theatre Arts with Performance Making and Collaborative Practice is designed to foster creative, radical theatre-makers and thinkers.
It is adventurous in form, international in scope and hands-on in practice.
This degree is ideal if you have a passion for using performance for social change.
You will learn performance and facilitation skills, while exploring the ideas that underpin them.
This degree prepares you to create musical theatre and find work in the performing arts sector.
As part of a close-knit community you'll develop your talents as a performer and in other areas, from director to arts administrator.
This degree offers you rigorous training in economic theory with real-world applications.
It will help you develop your own perspective to stand out from the crowd.
This degree combines training in economics with in-depth knowledge of the legal framework of the economy giving you a unique vantage point from which to launch your professional career.
Are you passionate about shaping the future of education and making a real difference in society?
At Goldsmiths, our BA Education degree is more than just a course – it’s a transformative experience that equips you with critical knowledge, practical experience, and a pathway to exciting career opportunities.
Bold, flexible, and richly diverse – our BA English degree will take you on a thrilling intellectual and imaginative journey.
The degree is ideal if you are curious about literature, with the imagination to turn that curiosity into creativity.
Study the practice and theory of fine art in a dynamic, critical and international context.
Study the theory and practice of fine art and learn how to think about it in the wider context of art history and contemporary visual culture.
The Extension Degree has been designed specifically for students from countries outside the United Kingdom.
Our aim is to enable you to work independently as an artist, and to generate and develop your own ideas.
History is a relevant, dynamic, fascinating and important field of study which, at Goldsmiths, is approached in creative, innovative and exciting ways.
Investigate modern and contemporary art, art theory and visual culture from around the world, and from a fresh perspective.
BA History with Anthropology offers an exciting combination of humanities disciplines that promotes the understanding of human life, culture, and society in the past and present.
This programme is an exciting opportunity to focus on global issues within the framework of a History degree, crossing continents and chronologies.
This programme engages with the newest military history research, addressing conflict, communities and identities to take military history beyond 'great men, great horses, great battles'.
BA History with Politics is an innovative and interdisciplinary exploration into how social, cultural, and political institutions, decisions, and events have shaped societies around the world.
Our International Relations degree investigates the dynamics of a constantly changing world and develops your knowledge and skills to address the global challenges of the 21st century.
Rarely has journalism been more urgent and in need of a generation equipped to report on our rapidly changing world and help shape a positive future.
You'll be guided by our diverse team of award-winning media professionals and world-leading academics, who will help you find meaningful stories and your voice.
Bringing together media practice and communications theory, this degree covers a broad spectrum of critical perspectives on the media and will introduce you to a range of contemporary media practices.
Explore photography as a creative art form in our rapidly changing visual world.
This programme helps you develop essential skills while learning both digital and analogue techniques, understanding visual culture, and building your creative voice.
This degree offers a distinctive approach that combines the study of politics and international relations, giving you a broad knowledge and experience of both disciplines.
This challenging and ground-breaking degree will help you understand how the economy is governed, how public policy gets made, and the ideas that shape our world.
This programme will give you a theoretical and practical insight into today's media landscape, driven by the growing industries of advertising, branding, and PR.
Combine the academic study of social sciences with the opportunity to apply your newfound skills and knowledge in the real world.
Challenging, dynamic and interactive, this programme is ideal if you have experience of community and youth work and it gives you opportunities for critical reflection and exploration of recent developments in the field.
Drawing on current research, government guidance and legislative frameworks, this degree focuses on the issues that are key in facilitating your development as a social worker.
Our innovative BA Sociology programme will equip you with the practical tools to understand the world around you, and to think about how to change it for the better.
Explore how societies are organised, and how people are united and divided.
Within the context of modern forms of power, examine the nature of crime and criminality from a critical, sociological perspective.
It is ideal for students with experience and/or interest in one or more of these areas: classical music, jazz, sound art, experimental music, traditional music or musical theatre.
This ground-breaking degree embraces popular music in its many forms, and centres on exploration and experimentation in creative practice.
Learn how to design, develop, and deploy software systems for business, while also honing skills in enterprise computing, business modelling and digital entrepreneurship.
The BSc (Hons) Business Management will give you an interdisciplinary, practical and theoretical understanding of how different business types operate.
Get prepared for the technology jobs of the future.
You'll master in-demand programming, computing and mathematical skills through project-based modules where you'll develop your own software.
Develop a specialist understanding of the key conceptual and technological issues in artificial intelligence and data science computation.
On this computer science degree you'll develop specialist knowledge of cybersecurity and learn how to keep operating systems secure and protected in the global digital age.
Develop the skills you need to pursue a career in software design and development, with a focus on software engineering techniques.
The BSc Computer Science (User Experience) will equip you with the skills to understand users' needs, and build systems suitable for global audiences.
Whether you’re interested in creative coding, digital art, electronic music, or app and games development, this degree will prepare you for a technology-focused career in the creative industries.
This degree will prepare you for a career in the creative industries, enabling you to learn and explore through a combination of technology and embedded creative practice.
This degree offers you rigorous and relevant training in economic theory, economic history, modelling, coding, statistics, and econometrics with real-world applications.
This degree combines economic theory with state-of-the-art analytical techniques in data science and machine learning.
This unique course combines rigorous training in economic theory and applications with cutting-edge insights and techniques from marketing practice.
Bringing together technical practice and theory, this programme equips you with the skills required for a career in the games industry.
The BSc (Hons) Management with Economics places an emphasis on the wider social, historical and political context in which organisations operate, and how that shapes the circulation of goods and services.
The BSc (Hons) Management with Marketing examines how businesses communicate with consumers, develop relationships with them and influence their decision-making.
This degree explores marketing and its interdisciplinary links, combining psychology, sociology, anthropology and management.
Our cutting-edge BSc Psychology offers a unique approach to the study of human behaviour.
The degree will develop your understanding of the processes shaping how individuals think, feel, behave, and interact, via analysis of critical issues in contemporary psychology.
This degree offers a scientific approach to the study of human behaviour, with an emphasis on developing your clinically relevant skills, knowledge and experience, and providing you with a broad understanding of psychological theory and research.
Our cutting-edge BSc Psychology with Cognitive Neuroscience offers a unique approach to the study of human behaviour.
The degree will develop your understanding of the processes that influence people, focusing on neuroscientific explanations of the human mind and behaviour.
On this degree you'll explore psychological theories, methods and processes relating to the legal, criminal and civil justice systems.
Our Foundation Year in Computing is an alternative entry route for students without the formal academic profile to enter degree-level study directly.
This is a four-year degree.
If you successfully achieve the progression requirements of the Foundation Year, you can continue with the full-time three-year BA (Hons) Anthropology degree.
This is a five-year degree.
If you successfully achieve the progression requirements of the Foundation Years, you can continue with the full-time three-year BA (Hons) Anthropology degree.
If you have been out of education or do not have the required A-level qualifications for degree-level study, this four-year course can help you realise your academic potential.
This programme equips you with the core skills and knowledge required for success in the first year of your Undergraduate Degree and beyond.
If you successfully achieve the progression requirements of the Foundation Year, you can continue onto one of our full-time three-year undergraduate degrees in Media & Communications, Journalism or Promotional Media.
This is a four-year degree including a one-year foundation programme.
The foundation year allows you to develop key musical skills and experience to prepare you for university life and to continue with our BMus Music.
Discover the key institutions and ideas that are shaping the political world around you in these turbulent times.
This psychology programme is an alternative entry route for students without the formal academic profile to enter degree-level study directly.
This foundation year programme supports you in accessing our BA Social Work undergraduate programme and studying to become a qualified Social Worker.
This foundation year programme introduces you to sociological ways of thinking about the world around you and will give you the resources to think critically and creatively about a wide range of contemporary social issues.
This is a qualifying law degree – your first step towards becoming a solicitor or barrister in England and Wales.
You’ll gain all the skills you need to progress to the next stages.
This law degree gives you the opportunity to obtain specialist knowledge and deepen your understanding of criminal justice and human rights, and their challenging interactions.
On this innovative LLB degree you'll immerse yourself in the study of law in relation to domestic and international politics.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/pg/a-z:
An A-Z of our postgraduate degrees
Explore a practical and theoretical overview of Art Psychotherapy in the UK through creative ways.
This programme offers an introduction to Dance Movement Psychotherapy in the UK, including theoretical concepts and the experience of using movement as a tool for self-reflection.
An intensive foundation in counselling for those who meet elements of counselling in their day-to-day work and who wish to enter this field professionally.
The Graduate Diploma in Contemporary Art History is for graduates of other disciplines with an interest in contemporary art and ideas, and who wish to carry out research at higher levels in the fields of visual cultures.
By studying this programme, you will build upon your existing knowledge and develop a greater independent and critical engagement in the fields of art and visual cultures.
The LLM in Criminal Justice gives you a panoramic, 360-degree view of the criminal process, and a multidimensional perspective that explores organic synergies between domestic, transnational and international criminal justice.
It opens up diverse career paths in the criminal justice and human rights sectors.
This cutting-edge LLM places you in the unique position to develop advanced knowledge and expertise in two specialist fields: criminal justice and international human rights.
It will empower you to pursue legal practice in the UK and internationally, opening diverse career paths in the criminal justice and human rights sector, or advancing you to the position where you will choose to undertake a PhD in criminal justice or human rights or their interactions.
The LLM in International Human Rights equips you with advanced knowledge and expertise in human rights law, giving you access to our internationally leading faculty, eminent legal experts, and some of the foremost human rights organisations in the UK.
The LLM (Master of Law) equips you with advanced knowledge and expertise in specialist areas of law, empowering you to pursue a diverse range of legal careers, or PhD study, in the UK and internationally.
This degree will train you as an actor for destinations in theatre and performance work.
You will learn in ways that are creatively rigorous, diverse and socially aware.
Fusing Goldsmiths' academic excellence and professional training from the Horniman Museum, the MA in Anthropology & Museum Practice provides you with a uniquely comprehensive set of skills.
Professionally validated by the National Youth Agency and the Endorsement and Quality Standards Board for Community Development, this MA brings together youth work and community development theory and practice with the research methods and theoretical preoccupations of anthropology.
This is a pathway of the MA Applied Anthropology & Community & Youth Work, aimed at applicants who may not need a National Youth Agency qualification in youth work (JNC) and those who want to become specialists in community development or community arts.
Develop your ability to contextualise, critique, and create.
This MA addresses the historical, political, theoretical and ethical issues of applied theatre, and explores the ways it is created by diverse groups of people.
This is a 15-month studio-based postgraduate programme for emerging artists who want to engage in meaningful and transformative ways with the most pressing ecological questions of our time.
Working from a materially diverse basis, this programme engages with a range of empirical, aesthetic, conceptual and material issues that traverse and exceed both 'art' and ‘politics’ to speak with our current contemporaneity.
This programme will provide you with a broad understanding of the theories and practices of art psychotherapy necessary for safe and effective clinical work.
This 12-month, intensively taught practice-based Masters is aimed at artists and graduates working within the field of artists’ film and moving image who wish to develop their practice and professional networks with the support of Goldsmiths' Art Department and its uniquely high concentration of accomplished artist filmmakers.
This programme gives artists, practitioners and educators the opportunity to enrich and consolidate theories of contemporary art and learning.
Engage with practice and theory, develop innovative research approaches, and critically debate the changing nature of contemporary art.
This MA will enable you to develop an awareness of and a critical approach to the discipline of arts administration and cultural policy, by studying trending issues in cultural policy and art practice in Europe, Asia and wider international contexts.
This Masters degree offers you the chance to engage with key issues in the theory and practice of cultural policy and arts administration, building on London’s position as one of the most important music centres in the world.
The MA in Black British History is an exciting opportunity to study and research the histories of Africans and African-descended peoples in the United Kingdom.
This Masters degree is a world first.
This programme traces diasporic and aesthetic routes, and draws upon the expertise of Black British Literature specialists.
This unique programme introduces the ways in which brands are developed and used, and helps you understand how the growth of branding – in business, politics, government, sport and culture – has changed the societies we live in.
This is a trailblazing programme that gives you the skills, knowledge and experience to succeed at the highest levels in broadcast careers.
Expand your understanding of children’s and young adult literature by specialising as a researcher, creative writer, or children’s book illustrator with the MA Children’s Literature programme.
Immerse yourself in the exploration of practical and professional approaches to children’s book illustration and writing for young children.
Develop your arts practice through the expressive world of creative computation.
This Masters provides you with the historical foundations, frameworks and critical skills to produce a series of projects for public exhibition.
This MA is tailored for people who want to start a career in the game industry.
One of the only programmes in the UK taught by actual game developers, it will teach you game design, art and animation, and game programming, and has a strong focus on entrepreneurship and business.
The MA Contemporary Art Theory is for those with a passionate interest in contemporary art, and a desire to reshape or contribute to theoretical work in the subject.
The MA Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship should be attractive if you either wish to develop a business arising from an existing creative practice, or to understand how to create the infrastructure and environment for new creative businesses.
This programme allows you to develop the business/entrepreneurial skills and attributes to commercialise on your creative and cultural practices and/or knowledge.
This innovative approach to design management enables you to develop the management, enterprise and academic skills and attributes that ensure you'll know how to commercialise your practices and make social impact.
This innovative approach to fashion management enables you to develop the management, enterprise and academic skills and attributes that ensure you'll be able to know how to commercialise your practices and make social impact.
This programme enables you to develop the business/entrepreneurial skills and attributes to commercialise on your creative and cultural practices and/or knowledge.
This programme allows you to develop the leadership skills to commercialise your creative and cultural practices and/or knowledge.
This programme allows you to develop your creative and cultural practices and knowledge to develop an impact-enterprise.
This programme develops the business and entrepreneurial skills and attributes you’ll need to commercialise on your creative and cultural practices and/or knowledge.
Have you got a story to tell?
Or poems that you want to shape into a collection?
This Masters degree will help you develop your creative writing practice.
You’ll experiment with a wide variety of forms to help you discover your preferred mode of writing.
You might be a teacher who writes; a writer interested in education; a poet, a novelist or a short story writer.
Whatever your background, this Masters will help you develop your creative writing skills and learn how to teach them.
The MA Cultural Studies offers an interdisciplinary approach to the study of contemporary to culture, politics and society.
This programme provides you with a broad understanding of the theories and practices of dance movement therapy necessary for safe and effective clinical work, and enables you to practise as a dance movement psychotherapist.
This is a radical post-disciplinary programme for practitioners who want to push the boundaries of what design can be and do.
Explore the relationship between designing and education, through radical pedagogies, design thinking methods, creative processes, and practical applications of design.
The MA Digital Media is unique in its combination of practical and theoretical approaches to contemporary media and technology.
This programme trains directors who are highly creative, critically and socially engaged, and skilled to work in a range of performance styles and practices.
Develop your own creative and ethical working methods, and unique style, as a director.
A unique programme for dramaturgs and playwrights, this Masters concentrates on the process of writing for live performance, together with an ongoing evaluation of the work in process.
Events managers of the future need to be versatile and confident, managing a wide array of events in innovative ways.
This degree equips you to take your place in the events industry, leading the way in events and experience management for the fast-paced creative and cultural industries.
Explore film philosophy, find out how images create meaning in experimental modes, and discover how we can think through the moving image on this eclectic Masters.
If you are passionate about pursuing a career as a cinematographer in an environment that promotes innovative filmmaking, this programme is for you.
The MA Filmmaking (Directing Fiction) is the premier place to develop your skills as a director, working on a range of projects from personal ‘essay’ films to large-scale shoots with professional actors and feature crew.
This Masters will enhance your narrative skills as an editor of fiction for film and television.
If you are passionate about pursuing a career as a storyteller, film director or content creator in an environment that promotes innovative filmmaking, this programme is for you.
The MA Filmmaking (Producing) will provide you with a thorough training in all aspects of producing – from the conception of an initial idea through to development, financing, production and release.
This MA will develop your skills and creative vision in documentary production.
It enhances your understanding of the historical context and contemporary modes of documentary production against a backdrop of the wider issues in media production.
On this Masters you'll learn the fundamental technical skills necessary to begin a career in screen sound, both as a location sound recordist and post-production sound designer.
But equally importantly, you will gain an understanding of how a film’s narrative relies on the precise partnership between image and sound.
On this brave games Masters focusing on game design, you’ll explore the ways that games are used in the creative arts to engage conversation, inspire personal expression, and explore our world.
This programme introduces you to recent debates on gender in the disciplines of sociology and media, as well as to the interdisciplinary domains of feminist social and cultural theory.
There are a range of topic choices available, including embodiment, feminist methods, media and sexuality, and postcolonialism.
This programme challenges views on global politics, considering the roles of international civil society, activists and non-Eurocentric understandings of politics.
Applying academic knowledge to real-world situations you'll have practical and professional opportunities throughout the degree.
The MA History is innovative, creative, free-thinking, stimulating, diverse and challenging – everything that is distinctive about history at Goldsmiths.
This MA examines contemporary issues concerning justice.
You will learn how to conceptualise and study the possibilities of human rights, going beyond legal formulations to look at the conditions in which human rights claims are made.
This programme will provide you with fundamental knowledge of the retail industry, introduce you to a diverse range of contemporary issues, and teach you skills in creative and cutting-edge solutions based on core intellectual and practical frameworks.
Accredited with distinction by the Professional Publishers Association, this practical MA gives you the essential skills to work as a journalist for multiple audiences across myriad platforms.
This unique and intellectually rigorous Masters programme gives you the opportunity to study literature at an advanced level from a variety of perspectives.
This Masters equips you with the management, entrepreneurial, marketing and professional skills to work in the luxury goods and experiential luxury industry.
Join a pioneering MA Media and Communications programme in a world-leading department.
Founded in 1993, this Master's programme reflects the research-led interdisciplinary approach we take to media and communications that has made us leaders in the field.
We value the creative and the critical and their interrelationships, to explore and interrogate how the complex, mediated worlds we live in work.
This unique Masters will enhance your critical understanding of musical theatre as a popular entertainment genre.
This international MA gives you the opportunity to develop your practice as an independent and collaborative performance practitioner.
It invites you to explore and experiment with live, digital, intermedial and socially and politically engaged performance.
Explore the creative interplay between urban theory and the visual representation of urban cultures and places.
MA Photography Practice at Goldsmiths approaches photography as an expanded art form in a time of radical transformation.
Our programme cultivates the essential visual sensitivity needed to create powerful images while balancing digital innovation with analogue craft, critical theory with practical skills, and personal expression with professional development.
Interrogate the status quo with leading academics who don’t just talk and write about politics, but actively campaign to create change in the world.
The MA Promotional Media explores the impact of digital platformisation and automation on promotional professions, skills and techniques
This programme is ideal if you wish to qualify and pursue a career as a professional counsellor.
It's designed to enable you to develop as a reflective counselling practitioner.
How we live with difference is the key issue of our time.
The MA Race, Media and Social Justice will equip you with critical and theoretical tools to unpack and deepen your understanding of contemporary debates on race, ethnicity and racism.
The MA Research Architecture is for graduates from a range of disciplines who want to examine how architecture can engage with questions of contemporary culture, politics, media, ecology and justice, and question whether spatial practice can become a form of research.
The skills of storytelling are timeless.
Tackle the creative, analytical and professional sides of script writing for film, television and radio on this industry-accredited Masters.
Are you interested in a career in anthropology, but haven’t studied the subject before?
Have you studied anthropology in the past, but need to consolidate this experience before moving into anthropological research?
This programme will enhance your understanding of the role of education in facilitating equal and just societies, focusing on issues of globalisation, languages, and racial and gender inequalities.
This MA is taught by nationally and internationally-renowned experts.
This Masters is ideal for graduates with relevant experience interested in pursuing a professional career in social work.
You will receive an approved qualification, enabling you to register with Social Work England and work as a qualified professional on completion of the programme.
How can sociology engage with the most significant challenges facing societies today and the patterns and dynamics of contemporary social life?
Through an introduction to the sociological imagination and sociology as a craft and vocation, you will study core themes of sociology at an advanced level to develop your capacity to think critically and sociologically.
This MA is designed for students interested in new ways of exploring and understanding the social world through visual, sensory, and other experimental approaches.
You will draw on urban sociology to examine the meaning of cities, urban life and culture.
Examine the impact of being abusive or being abused.
You will look at theoretical perspectives considering abusiveness and its impact in different international, cultural and social contexts.
The MA Visual Anthropology offers a unique combination of anthropological theory and visual practice.
It provides you with a strong foundation for producing visual work informed by anthropology.
Covering historical and philosophical bases of theatre and performance practices from different parts of the world, this Masters investigates indigenous and contemporary performance and theatre traditions from a variety of cultural contexts.
With an industry-informed curriculum, this future-focused MA combines computing and media and communications to reflect digital journalism at its most current.
Immersive experiences, including virtual and augmented reality, are the most exciting new mediums to emerge in the 21st century.
On this Masters, you’ll be working on a once-in-a-lifetime challenge: shaping and pioneering a medium that’s already having a major impact on our society.
Study a degree that develops your arts practice through the expressive world of creative computation.
Develop a distinctive, original and trans-disciplinary creative practice in (or related to) music through this programme.
The MFA Curating at Goldsmiths is designed for students who wish to take up the challenge of artistic, social and critical curating with a contemporary approach to the subject.
It also helps students to develop their professional practice.
Our MFA programme aims to strengthen your motivation, self-reflection and ambition as an emerging artist.
We do this by subjecting art-making to intense critical scrutiny.
This flexible Masters is an inclusive, forward-thinking music degree, open to broad conceptions of composition and multi-disciplinary approaches to practice.
This programme will provide you with an opportunity for your own work to engage with the widening horizons of new practices.
It will also enable you to invent methodologies, reframe urgencies, and reimagine the contexts for work.
The Department of Anthropology offers supervision in a wide range of areas for research degrees.
We support innovative art research in fine art, curating, art writing and across disciplines.
What kind of learning emerges from and with art practice, and how does such learning further impact upon arts practice?
This reflexive question lies at the heart of the MPhil/PhD Art Practice & Learning.
We offer opportunities for students who want to pursue research in art psychotherapy.
This is the only programme in the University of London in which students can include creative work and an arts-based context of their practice within the distinctive field of arts and creative technologies.
Goldsmiths is home to world-renowned researchers in social justice, community work and youth work, making it a perfect home for postgraduate research studies in these areas.
Our MPhil/PhD programme in computer science offers you the opportunity to participate fully in the highly interdisciplinary research environment of our department and of Goldsmiths as a whole.
Goldsmiths has a rich research culture, and hosts clinically and/or theoretically focused research in the fields of psychoanalysis, analytical psychology and psychodynamic counselling.
The Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship has a strong research base in all areas of cultural policy, cultural diplomacy, arts management, and creative, cultural and social entrepreneurship.
The inter-relationship between theory, scholarship and the creative process is key to the Goldsmiths MPhil/PhD Creative Writing.
With a world-class reputation for creativity and innovation, and a commitment to encouraging interdisciplinary collaboration, Goldsmiths provides researchers with a unique intellectual environment.
Goldsmiths’ Department of Design postgraduate research programmes offer you the opportunity to redefine design research in a community of design practice.
The Department of Theatre and Performance's research embraces a range of global theory and practice in theatre and performance including play-texts, physical practices and critical/cultural theory on which students can draw in their research.
Training future economists who combine imaginative approaches with rigorous analysis.
We are committed to developing our postgraduate students into competent and critical educational researchers able to conduct rigorous and socially impactful research using a variety of methodological approaches.
We offer MPhil and PhD research programmes in English (including American Studies), Comparative Literature or Linguistics for full-time or part-time study.
Undertake a research degree in the Department of History at Goldsmiths.
Goldsmiths Law MPhil/PhD candidates are given outstanding opportunities to explore modern legal phenomena in their rapidly changing socio-political, cultural, and economic context.
Explore critical theory in its historical and contemporary modalities on the Goldsmiths MPhil/PhD in Literary and Critical Theory.
The Institute of Management Studies (IMS) will equip you with a sound understanding of the methods and skills necessary to conduct high-level research, using a wide range of approaches and techniques.
We welcome proposals for research in any area connected with media, communications, digital media, cultural theory and practice.
We aim to engage you, intellectually and critically, and with enthusiasm, in a media or cultural studies project that questions everything.
Goldsmiths’ Department of Music has a lively and varied research base, large postgraduate community, active performing tradition, and offers proximity to London’s resources.
Undertake a research degree in politics and international relations at Goldsmiths.
We're committed to developing our postgraduates into skilled researchers who can conduct rigorous research using a variety of methods and analytic techniques.
Goldsmiths is an exciting space for postgraduates, with numerous international speakers, a huge range of interdisciplinary seminars and reading groups and a very open and warm environment for the exchange of ideas.
Undertake your own research project in the Centre for Research Architecture.
Goldsmiths is home to a wealth of experience and research in social work, spanning areas from social justice to social injustices to sexual and gender diversity.
We offer MPhil and PhD research programmes in Sociology for full or part-time study.
The Department of Anthropology offers supervision in a wide range of areas at MPhil and PhD level.
We welcome applicants wishing to explore visual culture understood as a meeting ground between creative practices, the philosophical and the political.
We offer MPhil and PhD research programmes in Visual Sociology for full or part-time study.
The MRes in Advanced Practices responds to the growing importance of research within contemporary cultural production.
This programme offers advanced training to students who intend to undertake a doctorate in anthropology, and it presents a valuable standalone research degree in and of itself that allows students to apply for researcher positions.
This MRes prepares you for more advanced research projects at MPhil/PhD level, but is also a degree in its own right.
It's ideal if you're considering a 'taster' year of research, or if you're keen to complete shorter term research at graduate level.
The MRes provides excellent preparation for study at MPhil/PhD level for students with a defined research topic, but is also a degree in its own right.
The Master of Research (MRes) degree prepares you for study at MPhil/PhD level.
The programme aims to equip you with a sound understanding of the research methods and skills necessary to conduct high-level research in psychology, using a wide range of approaches and techniques.
The MRes Visual Anthropology offers advanced-level training to students who normally already have an undergraduate degree or an MA.
Alternative practical experiences will be considered and assessed on a case-by-case basis.
The programme offers training to students who intend to undertake a doctorate in anthropology and/or it presents a research degree in and of itself.
The MRes Visual Cultures is ideal if you have already completed an advanced course of study in art history and theory but would like to further develop your thought and research projects before studying at MPhil/PhD level.
Gain the skills and knowledge you need to be an effective manager in increasingly uncertain and technology-dominated environments.
Understanding the relationship between brain, cognition and behaviour is one of the biggest challenges for the scientific community.
This established Masters course, integrating computer modelling with experimental research, equips students with a solid theoretical basis and practical experience of advanced data analysis and experimental techniques in computational and cognitive neuroscience.
Have Large Language Models piqued your interest in computing with language?
Have you ever wondered how personal assistants like Siri and Alexa work, or how humans interact with chatbots and apps using natural language?
Are you interested in how language is structured, what its social functions are, or how to build formal models for it?
If so, then this programme is for you.
This MSc is tailored for people who want to work in the game industry.
You will learn multi-platform game development and gain a solid foundation in programming to help you develop your skills.
The MSc has a strong focus on business and entrepreneurship, including the possibility to work with industry partners as part of your internship.
The MSc Data Science will provide you with the technical and practical skills to analyse the big data that is the key to success in future business, digital media, and science.
The MSc Data Science and Artificial Intelligence will provide you with a deep understanding of cutting-edge artificial intelligence techniques and the practical skills to implement data analytics using AI.
This MSc provides the academic training required for a career as a forensic psychologist.
This innovative MSc provides students with a strong knowledge and experience base for progressing to health service careers, particularly those looking to become clinical psychologists and clinical psychology researchers.
This programme will equip you with the fundamental business and social enterprise knowledge and skills needed to manage innovative product and brand or policy development, service delivery, and integration of emerging technologies in fast-paced industries.
The MSc Marketing & Consumer Behaviour will equip you with a comprehensive grounding in approaches to understanding consumer preferences, judgements and decision-making.
This Masters offers the knowledge and skills required to be a successful marketer in dynamic and technology-driven industries.
This unique programme combines music psychology with neuroscience, focusing on both the biological and cognitive aspects of musical behaviour.
The programme is the first of its kind at the University of London, offering a scientific approach to the study of human behaviour.
You will develop a broad understanding of psychological theory and research, and the processes influencing how people think, feel, behave, and interact.
This Masters is the first postgraduate programme in the world for the scientific study of aesthetics and creativity.
The MSc Social Research is an advanced degree in social scientific methodology and is recognised by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) as a research training degree.
This innovative programme will explore how people experience the world, particularly when using technology.
You'll learn how each layer of technology, from core hardware through to the way that media is handled, can affect user experience, and gain the skills for researching user requirements and designing the best solutions.
This Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) programme aims to provide a structured training where you can systematically acquire the knowledge and skills needed to practise as a Cognitive Behavioural Therapist.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Digital Media offers an introduction to critical and theoretical approaches to contemporary media and technology.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Film and Screen Studies offers a unique combination of critical and creative approaches to the past and the future of audiovisual media.
You are invited to think critically about the larger, global media worlds of the present age, and about your own location in the mediated society in which you live.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Political Communications offers teaching that is critical, innovative and diverse.
It combines theory with practical, applied elements, and draws on a range of research and contemporary examples.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Promotional Media: Public Relations, Advertising, and Marketing crosses the formalised boundaries established between media, public relations, marketing, and advertising.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Race, Media and Social Justice offers a rigorous and academic approach to deepen your understanding of contemporary issues regarding race and ethnicity, in order to form your own interventions that can contribute to social justice and equality.
This programme will cover sponsorship and marketing, audience development, regeneration and partnerships, and commerce/merchandise, giving a detailed insight into the ways that museums and galleries are managed.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Digital Media – Theory is unique in its combination of theoretical approaches to contemporary media and technology.
The PGDip in Film and Screen Studies offers a unique combination of critical and creative approaches to the past and the future of audiovisual media.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Media and Communications offers a broad look at many aspects of the media – sociological, economic and cultural.
It invites you to think critically about the larger, global media worlds of the present age, and about your own place in society.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Political Communications combines theory with practical, applied elements, and draws on a range of research and contemporary examples.
It offers teaching that is critical, innovative and diverse.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Promotional Media crosses the formalised boundaries established between media, public relations, marketing, and advertising, and will equip you with the knowledge necessary to pursue a related career.
The Postgraduate Diploma in Race, Media and Social Justice offers a rigorous and academic approach to this subject to deepen your understanding of contemporary issues regarding race and ethnicity.
This will enable you to form your own interventions that can contribute to social justice and equality.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/pgce/a-z:
An A-Z of our teacher training degrees
Our PGCE with Maths programme will support you to become a reflective, inclusive and creative primary school teacher.
In addition, as a maths specialist, it will provide you with an enhanced understanding of teaching the subject across all primary age phases.
Our Primary PGCE with Modern Languages programme will support you in becoming a confident, reflective, and engaged primary school teacher.
In addition, it will provide you with the opportunity to understand how languages – French, German and Spanish – can best be taught across the Primary age phases.
Our well established Primary PGCE programme will support you in developing the skills, knowledge and understanding that you’ll need to become a reflective, inclusive, creative, and engaged classroom practitioner.
This course offers an innovative and integrated route for those looking to become qualified secondary school teachers who need a part-time programme of study.
Secondary schools need good maths teachers.
This exciting and demanding programme will prepare you to become an effective and high-quality maths teacher, with a particular focus on the unique demands of working in a multi-ethnic London comprehensive school.
This full-time PGCE will give you the knowledge, skills and understanding to teach at secondary level in a range of subjects: Art and Design; Biology; Chemistry; Design and Technology; Drama; English; English and Media; Mathematics; Media; Modern Languages and Physics.
We recognise the importance and potential of theatre as an art form.
Our goal is to promote pupils’ personal, social, spiritual and cultural development through theatre and performance.
This teacher training programme prepares you to teach art and design in secondary schools.
You are shown how to plan, resource, and organise art lessons, as well as how to support, monitor and assess students’ engagement with Art and Design.
Our aim is to develop teachers whose vision, imagination and professionalism takes them beyond the realities of current educational policy, and encourage them to continually seek to evolve new and better models of practice.
This teacher training programme offers a balance of theory and practice to give you a thorough grounding in all aspects of the National Curriculum for English, including post-16 teaching.
Becoming an effective teacher is more than just transmitting knowledge.
We'll support and encourage you on your journey to becoming a science teacher who can inspire a new generation of world-changers.
This programme encourages an interactive teaching approach that builds confidence, develops understanding of how the language system works and leads to purposeful language use.
It provides you with the tools to make the study of language stimulating for the full range of learners.
This course is split equally between teaching English and teaching Media Studies.
It will give you an understanding of the important issues and practices underpinning the teaching of English and of Media Studies for 11-18 year olds.
Offering you a balance of theory and practice, this programme provides the opportunity to explore and understand the ways that the key concepts of Media Studies and Film Studies are taught at secondary school and at post-16 level.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/course-finder/results:
Clearing spaces available On this degree you'll explore anthropology from fresh, contemporary perspectives.
Clearing spaces available In an increasingly media-based world, this programme will equip you with the digital media production skills required to create contemporary anthropologically and socially informed…
In an increasingly media-based world, this programme will equip you with the digital media production skills required to create contemporary anthropologically and socially informed…
Clearing spaces available A multidisciplinary degree where you are taught counselling and psychotherapy practices but also learn about the social and cultural contexts of their production.
Clearing spaces available This programme will equip you for working in the arts and cultural industries, with a specific focus on management in the arts.
Clearing spaces available This degree will advance your knowledge of contemporary art and nurture your skills for a career in curating and curatorial practice.
Clearing spaces available Design isn’t just a way of making and doing; it’s a way of understanding and engaging with the world.
Clearing spaces available The BA Drama and Theatre Arts with Performance Making and Collaborative Practice is designed to foster creative, radical theatre-makers and thinkers.
It is adventurous in form,…
Clearing spaces available Train as an actor and artist in your own right.
The BA in Drama & Theatre Arts gives you the opportunity to study theatre and performance via a range of academic specialisms and with many practical options to support your…
Clearing spaces available This degree is ideal if you have a passion for using performance for social change.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/apply-now:
Whether you have your grades or are waiting for your results, you can apply through Clearing now.
Please use the online application form on this page to apply.
If you're waiting on your final results, please fill out an application using your predicted grades.
We'll be in touch with you on results day to confirm whether you've got a place.
Alternatively, email studentmarketing@gold.ac.uk
Find out more about how applying through Clearing works by visiting our Clearing Hub for helpful guides and videos.
By applying to Goldsmiths through Clearing, you could be eligible for financial support to help with your transition to university.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/immigration:
A way for international students to remain in the UK for two to three years after they have completed their studies.
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) are replacing physical documents (BRP cards) with an online record of your immigration status.
This is known as an eVisa.
If you have received an unconditional offer from Goldsmiths but are yet or unable to complete the CAS request form, please contact immigration (@gold.ac.uk) .
You can also book an appointment to speak with us by phone or Microsoft Teams.
How to find out if you need a visa to study in the UK.
Student visa eligibility, how and when to apply.
For those who will be at Goldsmiths for up to six months.
How to request a CAS, which you'll need when applying for the Student visa.
Who needs to pay tuition fees in advance, how to pay and what to do if you would like a refund.
Information on travelling outside the UK during your studies.
Whether or not you can work in the UK will depend upon the type of visa that you have.
Inviting visitors from your home country to come to the UK.
Requesting a CAS to continue your studies on a Student visa.
How to take a break and the possible visa implications.
As your visa sponsor it is important you tell us of any changes to your circumstances.
What to do if you lose your visa inside or outside the UK.
We can normally help you to update your visa.
Information on the requirements and conditions relating to your Student Visa, to ensure that you maintain your visa rights in the UK.
What you can do if your graduation is after your visa expires.
Skilled Worker, Graduate Route, Global Talent and Youth Mobility visa schemes.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions:
Goldsmiths welcomes applications from across the world.
We have a thriving international community with students from more than 130 countries, and we have been voted in the top 100 most international universities in the world by QS World University Rankings 2024.
For some countries, we have specific entry requirements and fees and scholarships.
Please see our country guides below to find out more about these and to read student profiles from your country.
Find out more information about the representatives in your country by viewing our list of representatives .
Please also see our calendar of international visits to find out when we're visiting a city near you.
If your country is not currently listed, please contact us at international (@gold.ac.uk) to find out more.
If you live in Europe you can see information about your country on the map below too.
If you are an international student already living in the UK and you're interested in applying to Goldsmiths, please read our information for international students in the UK .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/visits:
Find out more about Goldsmiths at one of the events we are doing in a city near you.
We regularly travel outside the UK to meet prospective students and advise them about applying to study at Goldsmiths, University of London, and about life as an international student here.
Select the country below to see our calendar of in-person and virtual events.
If you would like to speak to a member of staff in the International team you can chat to us on Unibuddy .
Details of upcoming events will be announced soon, please check back for more information.
Please contact Alastair Edwards, a.edwards (@gold.ac.uk) , or Dominic Grego, d.grego (@gold.ac.uk) , with any queries.
Please contact Will Abraham, w.abraham (@gold.ac.uk) , with any queries.
You can also take a look at our Brazil page for country-specific information.
Please contact Sophie Parsons, s.parsons (@gold.ac.uk) , or Dominic Grego, d.grego (@gold.ac.uk) , with any queries.
You can also take a look at our Canada page for country-specific information.
Please contact Sunny Deng at s.deng (@gold.ac.uk) with any queries.
You can also visit our China page for country-specific information.
You can also take a look at our Colombia page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Egypt page for country-specific information.
Please contact Sunny Deng, s.deng(@gold.ac.uk) , with any queries.
You can also visit our Hong Kong page for country-specific information.
Please contact our India team, india_team (@gold.ac.uk) , with any queries.
You can also visit our India page for country-specific information.
Please contact Dominic Grego, d.grego (@gold.ac.uk) , with any queries.
Visit our Indonesia page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Japan page for country-specific information.
Please contact Alastair Edwards, a.edwards (@gold.ac.uk) with any queries.
You can also visit our Jordan page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Lebanon page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Malaysia page for country-specific information.
You can also take a look at our Mexico page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Norway page for country-specific information.
You can also take a look at our Peru page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Russia page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Saudi Arabia page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Singapore page for country-specific information.
Please contact Sunny Deng, s.deng (@gold.ac.uk) , with any queries.
You can also visit our South Korea page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Taiwan page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Thailand page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Philippines page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Turkey page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our United Arab Emirates page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our USA page for country-specific information.
You can also visit our Vietnam page for country-specific information.
If you don't see your country here, please contact us for more information on our upcoming travel schedule.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/when-you-arrive:
Before you arrive you’ll be sent all the information you need to make the arrivals process as easy as possible.
Hear what our students have to say about settling into life at university
From Heathrow Airport (LHR)
Alternatively, you can:
From Stansted Airport (STN)
From London City Airport (LCY)
Take the DLR train westbound to Lewisham or Deptford Bridge.
Both are around a 15-minute bus journey from campus.
From Luton Airport (LTN)
Shuttle buses connect the airport to Luton station, from where you catch the Thameslink train to London Bridge, then travel to New Cross or New Cross Gate stations by mainline train.
From Gatwick Airport (LGW)
Catch a train to East Croydon station.
Change there and take the train to New Cross Gate.
The journey time is about one hour.
From Central London
Trains run from Charing Cross, Waterloo East, Cannon Street and London Bridge.
Journey time is roughly 10-15 minutes.
Check TfL , National Rail or Citymapper to find alternative travel options and to check the cost of your journey.
London is a fantastic place to be a student.
It’s a city that's constantly changing and offering up new experiences, and it has a huge mix of people from all walks of life.
We also have world-famous galleries, museums, theatres, festivals, shops, markets and parks for you to explore - many of them for free.
Find out more about life in London.
You are eligible for NHS healthcare if you are enrolled on a full time course lasting six months or longer.
Please ensure you register with a local GP .
The nearest hospital is Lewisham hospital .
Generally, international students find it easy to transition to life in London, but if you’re struggling then we can offer a whole range of support.
This includes our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service .
Find out more about the support we offer .
International calls to and from mobile phones can be expensive so you may want to buy a low cost UK mobile phone or SIM card when you arrive in the UK.
International calls are cheaper between the hours of 8pm and 7am, and at weekends.
You can dial direct to over 180 countries from the UK.
Simply Dial: 00 + country code + area code.
There is wifi across campus and internet access in halls.
There are also Mac and PCs available to use in the Rutherford Building (Library) on campus.
The library opening times are usually 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
New Cross Road Post Office (500 New Cross Road, SE14 6TL) is just a short work from campus and offers international postage services.
Postage stamps can be bought at the Students’ Union shop on campus, most local shops and supermarkets.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/studyabroad:
Experience a Study Abroad programme that is diverse and immersive.
Live and learn in London for a semester or a full year, and see for yourself how studying abroad can change your life and prepare you for a global career.
Your once-in-a-lifetime adventure awaits!
If you are a current student looking to study or work abroad as part of your studies at Goldsmiths, visit Go Abroad to find out more about your options.
From our single-site campus in London to our excellent student support there are many reasons to study with us.
International students can live, study, and socialise at Goldsmiths, for a term or academic year.
At Goldsmiths you have the option of completing an internship in London alongside your Study Abroad modules.
Details of tuition fees and living costs for Study Abroad students
Find out about accommodation in London for Study Abroad students.
Information about grades and credits for students taking part in the Goldsmiths Study Abroad programme.
Find out what past study abroad students have to say about their experience at Goldsmiths.
Find out how to apply to Study Abroad at Goldsmiths, and complete your application.
You can get in touch with the Study Abroad team by email or phone if you have any questions.
Pick from a range modules from across our academic departments.
Join Shani as she tells you how studying abroad can change your life.
Find out about the resources and support available to Students, at Goldsmiths and across London.
Guidance on immigration for students choosing to Study Abroad at Goldsmiths.
At Goldsmiths we have a range of support to help you settle into life in London.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international-exchange-programmes:
Study at Goldsmiths for one or two terms on an international exchange programme, including Erasmus+.
International exchange programmes allow students currently studying at a university outside of the UK to study at Goldsmiths for a semester or an academic year.
Goldsmiths must have an exchange agreement, such as an Erasmus+ partnership, with your university in order for you to study at Goldsmiths as an exchange student.
If Goldsmiths does not have an exchange agreement with your university, you may still be able to study with us on our Study Abroad programme .
Goldsmiths has many exchange partners , both within Europe and outside of Europe.
You should apply for an international exchange programme through your home university in the first instance.
All students nominated by their home university to study at Goldsmiths will be sent full application details by the Global Opportunities team.
Autumn term and Full Years students - 1 July Spring/Summer term students - 15 October
Autumn term and Full Year students - 30 July Spring/Summer term students - 15 November
Our English language requirement is CEFR Level B2 , or for undergraduates an IELTS score of 6.0 overall with a 6.0 in writing and no element lower than 5.5 .
For postgraduates, IELTS score must be 6.5 overall with 6.5 in writing and no element lower than 6.0 .
You can find a list of English language qualifications we can accept on this page .
For students studying with us for a single term, we can also accept a reference letter from a tutor at your home university as evidence of your English language level.
International exchange students study modules within one host department.
Browse our module catalogue to see an indicative selection of modules on offer.
As an exchange student, you will not pay any tuition fees to Goldsmiths for the duration of your exchange.
We aim to guarantee Goldsmiths accommodation for all international exchange students who apply before the accommodation deadline.
As an exchange student at Goldsmiths, you will have access to the full range of student support on offer.
There is also support available for students of different identities .
For more information on Brexit, and how it could impact your experience at Goldsmiths, please visit the Erasmus+ Charter page .
If you are a Goldsmiths student looking to study or work abroad, please visit our Go Abroad page .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply:
Discover how to apply to Goldsmiths as an International student.
International students apply for undergraduate degrees through UCAS , the same as Home students.
Some courses may ask for specific requirements for International students.
You should check individual programme pages to find out what these are.
Read more about the undergraduate application process .
You'll apply for postgraduate courses in the same way as Home students.
Read more about the postgraduate application process .
We offer a variety of different courses for International students who want to improve their English before studying with us.
Read more on our preparation courses and how to apply for them .
Our Study Abroad programme gives International students the opportunity to live, study and socialise with Goldsmiths students for either a half or full academic year.
It’s a great chance for people from different educational systems to gain academic credits from a British university.
Read more about applying for our Study Abroad programme .
Take a tour of London through our students favourite places.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/fees-funding:
To find out how much your course will cost, please visit the relevant programme page .
If you are a self-financing international student you'll need to make an advanced fee payment of £4,000 to secure your place at Goldsmiths.
Full details will be sent with your offer of admission.
Find out how to pay your fees .
If you have any questions about tuition fees, please get in touch with the Registry Office by emailing registry (@gold.ac.uk) .
On the 23 June 2020, the UK Government announced that EU/EEA/Swiss nationals will no longer be eligible for ‘home’ fee status from August 2021.
Access to financial support from Student Finance England will no longer be available and EU/EEA/Swiss nationals will be classified as International for fee purposes.
Goldsmiths offers a range of scholarships and bursaries for international students.
Please see our Scholarships Finder for more information.
If you have any questions about international scholarships, please get in touch on +44 (0)20 7717 2506, or email scholarships (@gold.ac.uk) .
Some academic departments at Goldsmiths offer programme-specific and/or subject-specific funding.
Visit our departmental awards page to find out what's available for your subject.
Your home country may offer scholarships or special funding opportunities.
We advise you to contact the Ministry of Education in your home country for information about any government-funded schemes that may be available for study abroad.
You can also contact your local British Council office, or British High Commission or Embassy, for further information about sources of funding.
The following agencies may be able to provide funding or information about funding opportunities:
If you have any questions about international scholarships, please get in touch on +44 (0)20 7717 2506 or email international (@gold.ac.uk) or scholarships (@gold.ac.uk) .
Goldsmiths' Student Funding Team coordinates and administers applications for Discretionary Funding.
Find out more on our student funding pages .
You may wish to find part-time work during your studies.
If you have a Student Visa, you will only be able to work a limited number of hours per week during official term time.
This can be 20 hours a week (if you are studying a degree level course) or 10 hours per week (if you are studying below degree level, for example on one of our International Foundation Certificate programmes).
Some international students apply to become a Goldsmiths Student Ambassador and work part-time in departments across the university.
You can find out more through the Immigration Advisory Service , who offer a series of dedicated visa drop-in sessions during the year.
If you have any further questions please contact immigration (@gold.ac.uk) .
The Careers Service will also be able to advise you.
The cost of living in London can be higher than other parts of the UK, although Goldsmiths’ location in New Cross means that the cost is lower than in central London.
Find out more about London living costs .
If you are applying for a Student Visa, you will need to be aware of certain financial obligations.
Read our visa advice and guidance .
Remember that your expenses will rise each year.
Tuition fees are payable each year and may also rise by up to 5% per year.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/information-for-prospective-partner-students:
Information for incoming students who are currently enrolled on a dedicated 1+2 or 2+2 UK transfer degree programme.
By providing bespoke advice and guidance to transfer students we aim to make the transition from studying in your home country to studying in the UK as stress and difficulty free as possible, allowing you to focus on your studies and experience all of the wonderful things London has to offer.
If you need any further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact Jonathan Moore, International Partnerships Manager .
Students coming from HELP University, Malaysia will usually enter into Year 2 of the BSc (Hons) Psychology degree .
As such, you will be able to see the list of modules you will take at Goldsmiths before you arrive.
Module descriptions are available on the programme pages
Entry requirements
Students must normally have achieved a Year 1 average of 60% across all subjects combined.
If you are a national of a non-majority English speaking country you would need to submit an IELTS 6.0 with 6.0 in Writing and with no element lower than 5.5, or equivalent.
Students from Shanghai Theatre Academy that have completed the pathway programme are eligible to apply for Year One entry onto the following programmes:
Module descriptions are available on the programme pages or by downloading the programme specifications.
Successful completion of the Shanghai Theatre Academy Pathway programme with a minimum score of Grade B or 80%.
Students coming from South Puget Sound Community College will usually enter into Year 2 of the Undergraduate programme.
Module descriptions are available on the programme pages.
Students must normally have achieved a GPA of 3.0 in their Associate of Arts Degree.
If you are a national of the United States of America, by providing evidence of your nationality (your passport), you will not need to take an English Language Qualification.
A progression agreement has been signed to allow students who have completed the ISDI Undergraduate Design programme to apply to the following Postgraduate programmes at Goldsmiths:
Successful completion of the Undergraduate Design Programme from Indian School of Design and Innovation (ISDI) validated by The University of Mumbai with a minimum score of 60%.
If you are a national of a non-majority English speaking country, you would need to submit an IELTS 6.5 (minimum 6.5 in Writing) and no element lower than 5.5 or appropriate English Language Qualification.
A progression agreement has been signed to allow students who have completed the ISME Undergraduate Business and Entrepreneurship programme to apply to the following Postgraduate programmes at Goldsmiths:
Successful completion of the Undergraduate Business Management & Entrepreneurship Programme from Indian School of Management and Entrepreneurship (ISME) validated by The University of Mumbai with a minimum score of 60%.
A progression agreement has been signed to allow students who have completed a degree in Critical and Visual Studies from the Pratt Institute, New York, USA are suitable and eligible to apply to the following Postgraduate programmes at Goldsmiths:
Students must normally have achieved a GPA of 3.0 in their Undergraduate Degree.
Students from Shanghai Institute of Visual Arts (SIVA) who have completed three years of the Undergraduate degree are eligible to apply for the Goldsmiths Graduate Diploma in Creative and Cultural Industries.
Successful completion will lead to Year One entry onto one of the following programmes:
Average GPA of 80% at the end of Year 3 of Undergraduate degree with a minimum of 60% in each subject.
Students should have a complete transcript at an appropriate GPA and a stamped letter from SIVA confirming that they have completed all credits required for a student at the end of Year 3.
Students will also have been expected to submit a personal statement as standard.
Students wishing to progress onto one of the MA degrees specified need to have passed all modules of the Graduate Diploma in Creative and Cultural Industries programme with an overall score of 50% or more, and completion of a successful interview.
This is in addition to satisfying any UK visa requirements for subsequent programmes with Goldsmiths.
If you are a national of a non-majority English speaking country, you would need to submit an IELTS 5.5 with no component lower than 5.5 or equivalent.
Undergraduate
You should apply through the UCAS website.
For further information and guidance on the process please visit our how to apply page .
Postgraduate
Apply directly to Goldsmiths using our online application system.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/information-for-prospective-partners:
International progression partnerships are the formal recognition of one programme of study and provide non-guaranteed progression for students from this qualification onto a pre-mapped degree pathway at Goldsmiths, University of London.
If your institution is interested in exploring an articulation arrangement with Goldsmiths, University of London please email the team at international (@gold.ac.uk) Priority will be given to institutions based in China, Malaysia, USA, India, South Korea and Canada.
Goldsmiths, University of London currently has Erasmus+ and Study Abroad agreements with leading universities around the world.
Find out more about Study Abroad opportunities and our partner institutions .
Our Study Abroad programme aims to give visiting students an international experience through a one semester or year long study at Goldsmiths, earning credits which can be transferred back to their home institution.
Our participation in the Erasmus+ programme supports students and staff from Goldsmiths to spend time studying or working overseas as well as offering the opportunity for partner universities to send students and staff to Goldsmiths.
If your institution is interested in exploring an Erasmus+/Study Abroad partnership with Goldsmiths, University of London please email the team at studyabroad (@gold.ac.uk) .
If you are interested in exploring any of the partnerships mentioned on this page, please email our team directly on international (@gold.ac.uk) .
Please note that Goldsmiths, University of London does not currently offer bilateral student exchange agreements.
However, we are developing this process and if you are interested in exploring opportunities related to bilateral exchange please email the team using the details above.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/representatives:
Goldsmiths has formal agreements with many institutions worldwide and in some countries Goldsmiths has appointed local representatives who can offer advice, information and assistance with applications.
The local representatives are not authorised to make admissions offers on behalf of Goldsmiths or to collect any tuition or accommodation fees on behalf of Goldsmiths and all offers are made by Goldsmiths in line with the admissions policy and procedures.
If an agent seeks to collect funds on behalf of Goldsmiths, please email int.agents (@gold.ac.uk) with the details so we can investigate.
For more information on the agents we currently work with, please visit our list of representatives by country.
Goldsmiths has an established policy regarding the use of education agents for student recruitment.
We are very selective in our choice of agents, and the number of appointments made is strictly limited.
Unsolicited international student applications from non-appointed agents will be treated as direct applications from students and will not result in commission payment.
If you are interested in becoming a Goldsmiths, University of London appointed Representative (Agent), please complete our Representative application form below.
In normal circumstances, agency appointment is unlikely unless a Student Recruitment staff member has visited the agent's office(s) and talked to the principal operator(s).
It is also generally preferable that the principal operator(s) has visited Goldsmiths.
If you have any queries about our work with agents please contact us at int.agents (@gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/visit-us:
We enjoy welcoming prospective students to campus and advising them about applying to study at Goldsmiths, as well as about life as an international student here.
Hear what our students have to say about our single-site campus in SE London
You can find out more about the events we are attending around the world on our International Visits page .
If you would like to speak to a member of staff in the International team you can chat to us on Unibuddy.
We attend a number of international virtual events where we will be available to answer your questions.
You can find details of the events under the relevant country on our Visits page .
You can also use our virtual tour to explore our campus and facilities at any time.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/programme-costs:
Studying a degree incurs some general costs that you'll need to budget for.
These may include:
There may also be additional costs associated with your specific programme.
This can include things like paying for field trips or specialist materials for your assignments.
For example, if you're studying an art degree you'll be expected to provide your own materials for creating your work.
You can check individual course pages to find out whether your course has these additional costs associated.
You'll find this information in the programme specification.
Your living expenses at university will vary according to your personal circumstances and choices.
Here are some rough estimates of what you might be spending weekly:
Budget: £158-£337 per week
The majority of single rooms in our halls cost between £158-£234 per week (including bills), depending on what kind of accommodation and facilities you choose.
We also offer some self-contained studio rooms or rooms that can accommodate couples that will cost up to £337
Private accommodation in the local area is relatively cheap compared to other parts of London, so you should be able to find affordable accommodation once you leave halls and start renting privately, but you should bear in mind that utility costs are expected to go up this year.
Budget: variable
If you're living in our halls then utilities such as electricity and gas are included in your rent.
If you're renting privately, this may vary depending on the supplier.
Budget: £6-£15 a week
If you want to have a TV either in halls or in private accommodation, you'll need to get a TV Licence.
Currently, a TV Licence costs £150.50 per year payable in monthly instalments or as a lump sum.
For more information, please visit the TV Licensing website .
Internet access is included in halls of residence costs, but if you’re in private accommodation you'll need to budget for this as well.
Also consider your mobile phone costs.
If you're an international student then it may make sense to buy a new mobile phone package that will work in the UK and make calls cheaper for you.
Budget: £30-40 per week If you're in shared accommodation, buying in bulk and cooking meals with your housemates can help keep food costs down.
You can also save money by preparing your own lunch on the days you're at university.
Budget: £20-£50 per week We recommend budgeting around £20-£50 a week for socialising.
There are plenty of great places for eating and drinking out in the local area as well as discounts offered to students for club nights, theatre and cinema tickets.
It’s always worth getting an NUS card from the Students' Union, which will offer further student discounts.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/egypt:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Egypt.
You'll be able to find everything from completing your application to adjusting to life in the UK.
We currently have 13 Egyptian students at Goldsmiths.
Norhan talks about studying at Goldsmiths.
This video is in Arabic.
The system allows you to choose up to five different universities and apply with one application.
The normal closing date is 26 January, but some courses will accept applications until 30 June.
You are advised to apply as early as possible as courses have limited places.
You should refer to individual programme pages to see whether your course has any additional application requirements.
Applications are usually assessed within two months and can be managed online via UCAS.
Once we've made a decision on your application you'll receive either an unconditional offer, a conditional offer or a rejection.
For the majority of postgraduate programmes you can apply via our website.
Simply click the ‘apply now’ button on your chosen programme page.
Some programmes have different application procedures, so always check the programme page before making your application.
As well as information about your education history, and the course you’re choosing, you’ll also need to provide a personal statement as part of your application.
This is your chance to explain how your academic experience is relevant to the course you want to study.
You’ll also have an opportunity to tell us about relevant extracurricular activities you’ve taken part in and how they make you stand out.
Find out more about what to include in your personal statement at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
For direct entry onto our undergraduate programmes you’ll need A-levels, an International Baccalaureate or a recognised Access or Foundation course.
Please see individual programme pages for specific entrance requirements.
When we consider your application we’ll assess your test scores and academic grades alongside your personal statement, reference letter and extracurricular activities.
Postgraduate taught For entry to postgraduate programmes you will normally need a Bachelors degree in relevant subject.
Refer to individual course pages to see whether there are any additional application requirements.
Research degrees You will normally need to have completed a Masters degree in a subject relevant to your proposed postgraduate study.
There may also be other specific entrance requirements.
You can refer to individual course pages to find out what these are.
We offer courses that have been specifically designed for international students.
You may want to consider these if you don’t meet the entry requirements for our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
These will help you with your English language and academic skills and are run by our English Language Centre .
Find out more about the courses we offer .
Normally, you will need to have been attending university for at least 1 year.
Find out more about the programme on our Study Abroad pages.
Find out more about our fees .
Goldsmiths has a series of scholarships for international students applying for postgraduate and research programmes.
If you’re an alumni you may also be eligible for discounted fees.
For further information, please use our scholarships finder .
Find out more about applying for a visa .
The International team visits Egypt regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
If you’re unable to visit Goldsmiths in person then these events are your chance to meet us in your home country.
Can’t make these dates?
We also run regular online events, including webinars, virtual tours and chat sessions.
We work with several agents in Egypt who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
See our list of representatives for more details .
Generally international students find it easy to transition to life in London, but if you’re struggling then we can offer a whole range of support.
This includes PAL (our student led mentor scheme), and our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service .
Take a look at how some of our students have adjusted to life in the UK:
Celebrations London caters for members of all faiths, and celebrates all of the major religious festivals, including Eid.
It is home to the largest mosque in Western Europe, The Baitul Futuh Mosque in Morden, South London.
Islamic Society Goldsmiths Students’ Union has an Islamic Society which hosts events including friday prayers, weekly circles, an Islamic Awareness Week and an annual dinner.
Middle Eastern and North African Society Goldsmiths also has a Middle Eastern and North African Society that promotes the region’s culture through events, parties, film screenings and performances.
It’s also a great place to connect with fellow Egyptian students.
Take a tour of our campus in Arabic

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/ghana:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Ghana.
Non-native speakers of English need to be able to demonstrate the required level of English language competence to enrol on our programmes.
Find out more about our English language requirements.
You will also need a Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSSCE) or WAEC Senior School Certificate with at least five Credit passes (C6 or higher).
Find out more about the programme on our Study Abroad pages .
Find out more about our fees.
We regularly host open days and campus tours .
There are a sizeable Ghanaian community in London, which means that Ghanaian students will usually find it easy to transition to life in London.
If you’re struggling then we can offer a whole range of support.
This includes PAL (our student led mentor scheme), and our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service.
Find out more about the support we offer.
Food and drink West African food is extremely popular in the UK and there are a large number of restaurants, cafes and supper clubs where you can satisfy your cravings including Zoe’s Ghana Kitchen and The Groundnut both run by former Goldsmiths students.
Time Out London has a list of their favourites , which is regularly updated.
If you want to cook at home then you’ll find that basic Ghanaian ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets.
After something more specialist?
There are plenty of West African grocery stores and market stalls in Deptford and Peckham, both of which are a ten-minute bus ride from campus.
The Groundnut have also produced several cookery books to help you get started.
Celebrations Because of the large West African population in London there are always places to celebrate traditional African cultural events.
There are also plenty of Ghanaian churches in London, including many close to campus in Lewisham.
African Caribbean society Goldsmiths has an African Caribbean society that promotes African and Caribbean culture through events, parties, film screenings and performances.
Take a tour of the Goldsmiths campus

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/nigeria:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Nigeria.
Find our more about out English language requirements.
If you’re unable to visit Goldsmiths in person then we also run regular online events, including webinars, virtual tours and chat sessions.
We work with several agents in Nigeria who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
There is a sizeable Nigerian community in London.
This includes PAL (our student led mentor scheme), and our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service.
Food and drink West African food is extremely popular in the UK and there are a large number of restaurants, cafes and supper clubs where you can satisfy your cravings including The Groundnut which is run by former Goldsmiths students.
If you want to cook at home then you’ll find that basic Nigerian ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets.
Celebrations and places of worship Because of the large West African population in London there are always places to celebrate traditional African cultural events.
There are also plenty of Nigerian churches in London, including many close to campus in New Cross and Lewisham.
London also caters for members of all faiths, and celebrates all of the major religious festivals.
To find out more bout places of worship visit www.cityvisitor.co.uk/southeastlondon/placesofworship Nigerian society Goldsmiths has a Nigerian society that promotes the country’s culture through events, parties, film screenings and performances.
It’s also a great place to connect with fellow Nigerian students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/southafrica:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from South Africa.
Once we've made a decision on your application you'll receive either an unconditional offer, a conditional offer or a rejection.
Simply click the ‘apply now’ button on your chosen programme page .
Find out more about what to include in your personal statement at undergraduate or postgraduate level.
We’ll also accept students with a Matriculation endorsement in the South African Senior Certificate/National Senior Certificate.
Postgraduate taught For entry to postgraduate programmes you will normally need a Bachelors degree in relevant subject.
We work with several agents in South Africa who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
There is a sizeable South African community in London.
Sites like The South African are a good place to keep up to date with news from home and find out about South African events in London including concerts, film festivals and arts events.
Food and drink After a taste of home?
There are a number of online shops including Sanza which offer delivery of South African foods and home comforts.
Places of worship London caters for members of all faiths, and celebrates all of the major religious festivals.
To find out more bout places of worship visit www.cityvisitor.co.uk/southeastlondon/placesofworship
Building on the knowledge from the MA, my vision is to contribute to the design of ecosystems that support the demand & supply of socially innovative Indigenous Knowledge Systems products and services and build its capabilities to subsequently impact the country's triple challenge of poverty, unemployment & inequality
Subsequent to consulting in South Africa’s public sector for 10 years, I wanted to deepen my knowledge in social innovation and chose Goldsmiths’ MA in Social Entrepreneurship with a keen interest in a sociology based Masters as we face a triple challenge of deepening inequality, increasing unemployment and chronic poverty and concomitant psychological, physical, spiritual and emotional trauma.
Additionally, to its global ranking in sociology, Goldsmiths is renowned for its arts and creativity and for me creativity is synonymous with innovation regardless the discipline.
Goldsmiths exceeded my expectations, collectively; the ICCE department, lecturers and fellow students felt like I had a social value dream team in my back pocket holistically enriching my learning experience, particularly as an international student far removed from my traditional support systems.
The MA gave me the insight into our systemic socio-economic challenges and encouraged the exploration of systemic socially innovative solutions which led me to the curiosity and subsequent advocacy for Indigenous Knowledge Systems as a source of socially innovative, inclusive and sustainable development.
Additionally, reflecting in hindsight, IKS is essentially at the core and an amalgamation of my passions, purpose, experience and identity and this aligned learning experience is indicative of the ICCE department’s intuitive, collaborative and aspirational approach to education.
I have returned home, enthusiastic to contribute to the IKS led development narrative.
I highly recommend Goldsmiths, the ICCE department’s commitment and contribution to its students continues well after graduation.
Following a referral from Professor Richard Hull, I have been awarded a research grant from the University of Cape Town Graduate School of Business to explore the intersection between entrepreneurship and Indigenous Knowledge System in townships as part of their MPHIL in Inclusive Innovation programme.
Building on the knowledge from the MA, my vision is to contribute to the design of ecosystems that support the demand and supply of IKS products and services and build its capabilities to subsequently impact the country's triple challenge of poverty, unemployment and inequality.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/argentina:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Argentina.
Find out more about our English language requirements
For entry to postgraduate programmes you will normally need a Bachelors degree in relevant subject.
You will normally need to have completed a Masters degree in a subject relevant to your proposed postgraduate study.
Fees
Scholarships and bursaries
Find out about applying for a visa
This includes our on-site Careers Service and Wellbeing Support .
Please ensure you r egister with a local GP.
There is a large Latin American community in South East London.
This is especially centred around Brixton and Elephant and Castle which are both close to campus and have a range of specialist shops and food outlets.
Take a tour of campus in Spanish

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/brazil:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Brazil.
Estela talks about studying at Goldsmiths.
This video is in Portuguese.
For entry to postgraduate programmes you will normally need a Bachelors degree in relevant subject.
Refer to individual course pages to see whether there are any additional application requirements.
You can refer to individual course pages to find out what these are.
The International team visits Brazil regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
See our list of upcoming events .
Agents in Brazil
We work with several agents in Brazil who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
The nearest hospital is Lewisham hospital.
Food and drink
Basic Brazilian ingredients are available in the larger UK supermarkets but if you’re after something specialist then there are a number of Brazilian grocery shops in London including Casa Brasil in Bayswater.
Celebrations
Brazilian culture and music has had a significant impact in London and there are plenty of bars, clubs and other Brazilian venues across the city.
One of the biggest is Guanabara in Covent Garden, which has music every night of the week.
Many Brazilian acts also perform in the Carnaval del Pueblo .
It’s Europe's largest celebration of Latin American culture and it’s held annually in Burgess Park, a ten minute journey from campus.
Listings sites like http://www.latinosinlondon.com/ and http://www.latinolife.co.uk/ are a good place to look for Brazilian events in London.
Take a tour of campus in Portugese

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/canada:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Canada.
When we consider your application we’ll look at a variety of factors including your personal statement, reference letter, extracurricular activities, test scores and academic grades.
You won’t need to take UK exams to apply to Goldsmiths.
Our admissions team will review your qualifications and match them with their UK equivalents.
As a guide you’ll need to have a minimum overall score of 75% inc BBBBB in grade 12 U or M courses in the Ontario Secondary School Diploma.
If you’re applying from Alberta you will normally need to complete your High School Diploma with an overall score of 70% in five Grade 12 courses numbered 30 or 31.
If you’re applying from British Columbia we normally ask that you have a minimum of B+ in five grade 12 subjects.
If your qualifications were not taught in English then you will need to demonstrate your level of English language.
Please refer to individual programme pages, as each course will have its own specific entrance requirements.
Postgraduate taught
Goldsmiths is registered to certify Canadian national and provincial loans and grants .
You can bring your forms to financialaid@gold.ac.uk on campus to be certified.
The International team visits Canada at least twice a year to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
If you’re unable to visit Goldsmiths in person, these events are your chance to meet us in your home country.
See a list of events happening in your country .
For queries, please contact Will Abraham , your regional representative based in New York City.
He can provide you with information about studying at Goldsmiths and can assist you throughout the application process.
We work with several agents in Canada who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
This includes PAL (our student led mentor scheme), and our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service.
Take a tour of campus

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/chile:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Chile.
For direct entry onto our undergraduate programmes you’ll generally need A-levels, an International Baccalaureate or a recognised Access or Foundation course.
However, we may consider you if you have one of the following Chilean qualifications:
You can refer to individual course pages to find out what these are.
If you're unable to visit Goldsmiths in person then we also run regular online events including webinars, virtual tours and chat sessions.
This is especially centred around Brixton and Elephant and Castle which are both close to campus, and have a range of specialist shops and food outlets.
Listings sites ike Latinos in London and Latino Life are a good place to look for Chilean events in London including concerts, film festivals and arts events.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/colombia:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Colombia.
Find out more about our English language requirements.
However, we may consider you if you have the following Colombian qualifications: •    Técnico de Alto Nivel •    Titulo de Tecnologo •    Técnico Profesional Intermedio When we consider your application we’ll assess your test scores and academic grades alongside your personal statement, reference letter and extracurricular activities.
Fid out more about applying for a visa .
Generally Colombian students find it easy to transition to life in London, but if you’re struggling then we can offer a whole range of support.
Food and drink There is a large Latin American community in South East London.
Celebrations Listings sites like http://www.latinosinlondon.com / and http://www.latinolife.co.uk/ are a good place to look for Colombian events in London including concerts, film festivals and arts events.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/ecuador:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Ecuador.
Celebrations Listings sites like http://www.latinosinlondon.com and http://www.latinolife.co.uk are a good place to look for Ecuadorian events in London including concerts, film festivals and arts events.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/jamaica:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Jamaica.
You make your application through UCAS, an online application system .
We will also accept applicants with Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Exams.
These will help you with your English language and academic skills and are run by our English Language Centre.
Find out more about applying for a visa
If you’re unable to visit Goldsmiths in person then we also run regular online events , including webinars, virtual tours and chat sessions.
There are a sizeable Jamaican community in London, especially centred around South London.
Because of this Jamaican students generally find it easy to transition to life in the city, but if you’re struggling then we can offer a whole range of support.
This includes PAL (our student led mentor scheme), and our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service.
Find out more about the support we offer.
Caribbean food is extremely popular in London and there are a huge number of restaurants and cafes where you can satisfy your cravings, including Cummin’ Up next to New Cross Gate station.
The Evening Standard has produced a list of their favourite Jamaican restaurants in London .
If you want to cook at home then you’ll find that basic Jamaican ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets.
There are plenty of Caribbean grocery stores and market stalls in Deptford, Lewisham and Peckham, all of which are a ten-minute bus ride from campus.
Because of the large Caribbean population in London there are always places to celebrate traditional Caribbean cultural events.
Europe’s largest street party - the Notting Hill Carnival – takes place every summer with parades, music and food offering a celebration of African and Caribbean culture.
Over a million people take part in the carnival each year.
Goldsmiths has an African Caribbean society that promotes African and Caribbean culture through events, parties, film screenings and performances.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/mexico:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Mexico.
The International team visits Mexico regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
See our list of international events for more details.
We work with several agents in Mexico who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
See our list of agents for more details.
Food and drink Basic Mexican ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets but if you’re after something specialist then Cool Chile in Borough Market and online shop Mex Grocer will be able to satisfy your cravings.
Time Out London also has a regularly updated list of the best Mexican restaurants in London including the best places to get authentic burritos .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/peru:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Peru.
You can refer to individual course pages (link to course finder) to find out what these are.
If you’re an alumni you may also be eligible for discounted fees.
We work with several agents in Peru who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
There are around 8,000 Peruvians based in the UK.
Celebrations Listings sites like http://www.latinosinlondon.com/ and http://www.latinolife.co.uk / are a good place to look for Peruvian events in London including concerts, film festivals and arts events.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/usa:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from the USA.
Goldsmiths offers a variety of summer schools for international students.
Find out more about our summer school programme.
All applications are usually considered on individual merit and we accept a wide variety of qualifications from all over the world.
Goldsmiths welcomes applications from students with US qualifications.
You do not need to take UK exams to study at Goldsmiths, and our admissions team will review your US qualifications and establish equivalences at the point of application.
Goldsmiths operates on both a test optional and test flexible admissions policy.
Students who currently have, or will have, test results are welcome to submit them for consideration as part of their application.
However, students who are unable to submit test results will not be disadvantaged.
When making admissions decisions, Goldsmiths uses a holistic review process, taking a variety of factors into account including your personal statement, letter of reference, extracurricular activities, test scores, and academic grades.
On some programmes , portfolios, auditions, or subject-specific grades are also required.
For High School applicants, Goldsmiths requires the following academic qualifications in one of two options:
A high school diploma with a GPA 3.0 or higher (unweighted) plus one of the following:
Or
A high school diploma with a GPA 3.3 or higher (unweighted) with grades of A and B in honours- or advanced-level courses, advanced placement (AP) classes, HL/SL IB certificates, or dual enrollment within the context of your high school’s curriculum.
For International Baccalaureate applicants, Goldsmiths requires the full IB Diploma with an overall score of 33 points with Higher Level courses at 6,5,5.
We utilize AP, IB, and SAT/ACT test results for admissions purposes only.
No advanced entry or course credit will be awarded.
We will superscore both the ACT and the SAT.
Our four-digit college code for CollegeBoard is 7674 and our four-digit college code for ACT is 5310.
For Community College or University transfer applicants, Goldsmiths requires the following academic qualifications:
At least one year of university-level coursework (30 US university credits, or equivalent) with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0.
Standardized test scores are not required if you have completed one year of university-level coursework, including in a dual enrollment context.
You may also be considered for advanced entry to some of our undergraduate programmes if you have completed a period of study at a U.S.
University or Community College.
Normally, students who have completed 2 years at the undergraduate level are eligible to apply for year 2 entry, but this will depend on your chosen programme and the coursework you have already completed.
Please contact the international team for more details.
Please note that not all programmes allow second year entry.
For entry to postgraduate programmes you will normally need a Bachelor’s degree in a subject relevant to your proposed area of postgraduate study.
Test scores such as the GRE are not required.
Specific entrance requirements (including portfolios) and application deadlines may also apply in some subjects.
Please refer to individual course pages to find out what these are.
For any questions about academic qualifications, please contact our New York City-based recruitment officer, Will Abraham .
Normally, you will need to have been attending university for at least 1 year and have a GPA of at least 3.0.
If you have a lower GPA we may still consider you, particularly if you’ve worked previously in that subject area.
Find out more on our study abroad pages .
Find out more about our fees, and about funding for students from the USA .
If you are an alum, you may also be eligible for discounted fees.
For further information, please use our scholarship finder .
The International team visits the USA at least twice a year to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
For queries, please contact Will Abraham, w.abraham (@gold.ac.uk) , your New York City-based regional representative.
He can provide you with information about studying at Goldsmiths and can assist with the application process.
Generally Americans find it easy to transition to life in London, but if you’re struggling then we can offer a whole range of support.
This includes and our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service .
Celebrations Many London-based Americans still celebrate traditional American holidays so it’s easy to find somewhere to mark events like 4th of July and Thanksgiving.
Check Time Out London for listings.
Find out more about places of worship .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/venezuela:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Venezuela.
We may also consider your application if you have a Título de Técnico Superior Universitario.
You will also need to successfully complete your Bachillerato with an average of grade 8.
Students with the Licenciatura / Professional Title  (4 years or more) would  generally need to have achieved between 6 / 61-70% / Bueno or 7 / 71-80% / Distinguido or above or successfully completed a Título de Especialista (Diploma of Specialisation) course.
For further information, please use our scholarships finder .
We work with several agents in Venezuela who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
There is a large Venezuelan community based in.
This includes our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service .
Celebrations and places of worship
Listings sites like Latinos in London and Latino Life are a good place to look for Venezuelan events in London including concerts, film festivals and arts events.
Find out more information about places of worship in South-East London .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/bangladesh:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Bangladesh.
Find out more about our English language requirements .
These will help you with your English language and academic skills and are run by our Centre for Academic Language and Literacies .
We regularly host open days and campus tours.
If you're unable to visit Goldsmiths in person then we also run regular online events, including webinars, virtual tours and chat sessions.
This includes our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service .
Please ensure you register with a local GP.
The nearest hospital is Lewisham hospital
Bangladeshi food is readily available in UK supermarkets but if you’re after something specialist then there are a number of restaurants and shops in Brick Lane, around a 15 minute journey from campus.
London caters for members of all faiths, and celebrates all of the major religious festivals, including Eid.
It is home to the largest mosque in Western Europe, the Baitul Futuh Mosque in Morden, South London.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/brunei:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Brunei.
You make your application through UCAS, an online application system.
You should refer to individual programme pages to see whether your course has any additional application requirements.
The International team visits Brunei regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
See our list of upcoming events here .
Agents in Brunei
We work with several agents in Brunei who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
London has a long-standing Arabic community, which means that students from Brunei generally find it easy to transition to life here.
However, if you’re struggling then we can offer a whole range of support.
Islamic Society
Goldsmiths Students’ Union has an Islamic Society which hosts events including friday prayers, weekly circles, an Islamic Awareness Week and an annual dinner.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/china:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from China.
Mengqui talks about studying at Goldsmiths.
This video is in Mandarin.
Foundation programmes
For entry on to one of our International Foundation Certificates, you will normally need to complete high school with good grades.
However if you have studied for at least 11 years of schooling including some element of senior high school, we will be able to consider you for direct entry on to an IFC.
If you have Chinese high school diploma average of 75%, you will also need to meet one of the following:
The International team visits China regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
See a list of events where Goldsmiths are visiting China.
We work with several agents in China who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
Generally Chinese students find it easy to transition to life in London, but if you’re struggling then we can offer a whole range of support.
Chinese food is readily available in UK supermarkets but if you’re after something specialist then there are a number of Chinese grocery shops close to campus, including Yip Oriental Store on New Cross Road and Anything Chinese in Deptford.
Time Out London has a list of the best Chinese restaurants in London -  including the best places for dim sum .
You can also get a taste of home in Central London’s Chinatown .
Although it’s touristy it offers a huge range of shops and restaurants.
Many London-based Chinese people still celebrate traditional Chinese holidays, and Londoners have embraced Chinese New Year.
Confucius Institute for Dance and Performance
Goldsmiths has a Confucius Institute for Dance and Performance , which is run in partnership with the Beijing Dance Academy.
As well as offering Mandarin classes they also promote Chinese performance and culture and provide opportunities for academic visits and exchanges to explore research and creative projects with the Beijing Dance Academy.
They also organise celebrations around traditional Chinese holidays.
ABACUS society
Goldsmiths has a Chinese society that promotes the country’s culture through weekly meetings, Dim sum outings and film screenings.
It’s also a great place to connect with fellow Chinese students.
Take a tour of campus in Mandarin

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/hongkong:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Hong Kong.
Goldsmiths accepts HKDSE for undergraduate entry.
For most programmes you will need to have passed Chinese and English with a minimum Level 3, ‘Attained' in Citizenship and Social Development, and achieved at least grades 4,4,4 in three subjects (including at least two electives).
We will also accept A-levels, an International Baccalaureate or a recognised Access or Foundation course.
Please check programme pages for individual entrance requirements.
IBCP (International Baccalaureate Career Related Programme) applicants will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Typically applicants would be expected to have taken two IB components at Higher Level, in relevant subjects, and achieved grades of 6, 5 plus an appropriate pass in the Career Related qualification.
The International team visits Hong Kong regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
We work with several agents in Hong Kong who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
See our list of representatives for more details.
There is a large Hong Kong Chinese community based in London.
Food and drink Chinese food is readily available in UK supermarkets but if you’re after something specialist then there are a number of Chinese grocery shops close to campus, including Yip Oriental Store on New Cross Road and Anything Chinese in Deptford.
You can also get a taste of home in Central London’s Chinatown - Although it’s touristy it offers a huge range of shops and restaurants.
Celebrations Many London-based Chinese people still celebrate traditional Chinese holidays, and Londoners have embraced Chinese New Year.
Check Time Out London for listings .
Confucius Institute for Dance and Performance Goldsmiths has a Confucius Institute for Dance and Performance , which is run in partnership with the Beijing Dance Academy.
ABACUS society Goldsmiths has a Chinese society that promotes the country’s culture through weekly meetings, Dim sum outings and film screenings.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/india:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from India.
We accept the following Indian qualifications: •    Higher Secondary School Certificate at Standard XII from either CBSE, CISCE/ICSE and Metro state boards •    Diploma (2-4 years) from a Polytechnic/College of Technology/Professional Institute When we consider your application we’ll assess your test scores and academic grades alongside your personal statement, reference letter and extracurricular activities.
We may require verification of qualifications via Digi Locker or from the examining Board.
We use the NOOSR ranking to make differential offers.
English language We are able to accept the Standard XII to meet English language requirements from select Boards.
Please see our English language requirements page for full details.
The International team visits India regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
We work with several agents in India who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
If you have any questions about applying to Goldsmiths from India, please contact our India team who will be happy to help.
There is a sizeable and vibrant Indian community in London.
Food and drink Indian food is readily available in UK supermarkets, and curries have been adopted as an English national dish.
If you’re after something specialist then there are a number of Indian grocery shops close to campus, mainly concentrated around the Brick Lane area in East London.
You can reach Brick Lane in around 15 minutes on the Overground from New Cross or New Cross Gate stations.
Time Out London also has a list of the best Indian restaurants in London .
Celebrations London caters for members of all faiths, and celebrates all of the major religious festivals, including those from the Hindu culture.
Find out what our indian students have to say about their experience of studying at Goldsmiths.
"Our mentors guided us through this course wonderfully and I will be eternally grateful for their role in my journey."
I came to Goldsmith University hoping for good education, but was rewarded with practical knowledge and experiences that I had only dreamt of.
Being the youngest amongst my peers I was a bit nervous about the amount of experience that I brought to the table.
Yet it was that very aspect that made the learning so much more meaningful and fun as my ideas fitted in well with veterans from various creative worlds studying with me.
“A new and unconventional approach” they called it – the thing that I, myself needed as an Indian to try and better the creative and cultural scenes in my country.
Our mentors guided us through this course wonderfully and I will be eternally grateful for their role in my journey.
The MA in Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship taught me how to effectively address social and cultural issues with creative media.
After my course, I worked as the Chief Script Writer for a firm in India, where one of my projects was to conceptualize explainer videos for the Ministry of Human Resources and Development, Govt.
of India directed towards empowering the women and girls of rural India.
I am currently a Senior Copywriter in a creative firm where I have been able to head advertising and marketing projects for several established corporate entities as well as upcoming start-ups.
The MA in Cultural Policy, Relations and Diplomacy made me realize that our perspectives are largely a result of ‘where we come from’.
MA in CPRD program enabled me to recognize the intricacies of research.
For me, the program sits at the intersection of culture and politics.
I developed a holistic outlook of approaching a topic.
Learning and engaging with a variety of topics with classmates from all around the world gave me an opportunity to recognize the subjective realities each one carries with them.
It made me realize that our perspectives are largely a result of ‘where we come from’.
My course convener Dr.
Carla Figueira was always encouraging, supportive and took various initiatives for us that ensured the best learning experience.
I am currently an intern for the international collaboration team at Pratham Education Foundation (NGO).
The foundation predominantly works in the education sector and has developed an alternative educational model called ‘Teaching at Right Level’.
Some of the eastern and southern African countries have shown interest in adopting this model in their school system.
My work involves researching on the aspects on Zambian culture, history, geography, and refugees.
This would be essential to understand, for developing the ‘Teaching at Right level’ model in Zambia.
My postgraduation year (2019-2020) coincided with the uncertain times of Covid-19 pandemic, that re-enforced the inevitable force of culture in the world, and I find my MA even more relevant.
Goldsmiths, University of London is diverse, geographically well situated and a great place to learn.
It hosts several extracurricular activities.
I represented Goldsmiths at intercollege badminton.
This gave me a chance to meet students from different departments and degrees that added to my overall experience.
I had a wonderful year!

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/indonesia:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Indonesia.
Applicants with STTB – SMA or SMU3/Sikolah Menegah qualifications will need to take a recognised foundation programme, such as our International Foundation Certificate , for entry to Goldsmiths.
The International team visits Indonesia regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
We work with several agents in Indonesia who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
See our list of international representatives for more details.
Food and drink Basic Indonesian ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets but if you’re after something specialist then there are a number of Asian grocery shops in London including several in Deptford, a ten minute walk from campus.
Fancy eating out?
There are a large number of Indonesian restaurants in London including Bali Bali and Nusa Dua in Shaftesbury Avenue, Central London.
South Asian Society Goldsmiths has a South Asian society that promotes South Asian culture through events, parties, film screenings and performances.
Anyone is welcome to join but it’s a great place to meet fellow Indonesian students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/iran:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Iran.
Please note, if you would like to apply for an undergraduate degree from within Iran, you will be unable to apply through UCAS due to a restriction imposed by one of UCAS's technology suppliers based in the USA.
To apply, please instead use the online application form below.
If you are a resident of the Crimea Region/Sevastopol, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, or Syria but are applying from a different location you will not be affected and can still register and apply through UCAS as normal.
Applications are usually assessed within two months.
For the majority of postgraduate programmes, you can apply via our website.
Simply click the 'apply now' button on your chosen programme page.
Please note these grades are a guide and do not guarantee entry onto one of our degree programmes.
You can find the equivalent A-level grades on our individual course pages.
Undergraduate We accept the Pre-University Certificate (Peeshdaneshgahe) plus High School Diploma.
London has a long-standing Iranian community and this means that international students generally find it easy to transition to life in the city.
However, if you’re struggling, then we can offer a whole range of support.
Food and drink Basic Iranian ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets but if you’re after something specialist then try Persepolis - a deli and café which specialises in Iranian ingredients.
It’s in Peckham, a 15 minute bus ride from campus.
The Guardian has a list of their favourite Iranian restaurants in London, and Time Out has a list of the best places to get Middle Eastern food.
Middle Eastern and North African Society Goldsmiths has a Middle Eastern and North African Society that promotes the region’s culture through events, parties, film screenings and performances.
It’s also a great place to connect with fellow Iranian students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/iraq:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Iraq.
Find out more about what these offers mean in our video:
Find out more about what to include in your personal statement at undergraduate and postgraduate level:
London has a long-standing Iraqi community which means that international students usually find it easy to transition to life in the city.
Food and drink Basic Middle Eastern ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets.
Time Out London has a list of the best Middle Eastern restaurants which is regularly updated.
It’s also a great place to connect with fellow Iraqi students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/israel:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Israel.
We will also accept applicants with a Bagrut with 75 - 84%.
If you don’t have the grades to join our direct entry undergraduate programmes then you may be able to join one of our International Foundation programmes .
These will help you with English language and academic skills.
Once you’ve completed a foundation programme you will automatically be able to progress onto one of our undergraduate degree programmes.
Food and drink Basic Middle Eastern ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets and Kosher food is widely available in both restaurants and shops.
Time Out London has a list of the best Middle Eastern and Jewish restaurants .
Celebrations London caters for members of every faith, and celebrates all of the major religious festivals, including Jewish cultural celebrations.
See Time Out for listings.
There are a large number of Synagogues in London, especially centred around West London.
Jewish Society The Jewish Society hosts a large variety of events including lectures, socials and lunchtime sessions where people can learn more about the Jewish faith.
Israel Society The Israel Society is a great place for students to learn more about Israel as a country.
Everyone’s welcome but it’s a great place to meet fellow Israeli students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/japan:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Japan.
Our Japanese graduates work in a diverse range of industries and for a whole host of companies.
Examples of employees include The Japan Foundation, Booking.com, Universal Studios and the Tokyo Metropolitan Board of Education.
Hana talks about studying at Goldsmiths.
This video is in Japanese.
Find out more about English language requirements for undergraduate or postgraduate study .
You should also refer to the individual programme page for your chosen subject.
The International team visits Japan regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
See our list of upcoming events for more information.
We work with several agents in Japan who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
This includes PAL; our student led mentor scheme, and our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service.
Food and drink Basic Japanese ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets but if you’re after something specialist then there are a number of Japanese grocery shops in London including the Japan Centre , Ricewine Shop , Atari-ya Foods .
Time Out London also has a regularly updated list of the best Japanese restaurants in London - including the best places for sushi - and ramen -  We like Ten Ten Tei and Ramen Taro, which are both in Central London.
Anime Society Because of the large Japanese population in London there are always places to celebrate traditional Japanese cultural events.
Goldsmiths also has an Anime Society which regularly screens Anime films and also celebrates Japanese culture more widely.
Take a tour of campus in Japanese
Find out what our South Korean students have to say about their time at Goldsmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/jordan:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Jordan.
Said Foundation Scholarship
Students from Jordan , Lebanon , Palestine , and Syria are able to apply for fully-funded scholarships which include tuition fees, full maintenance/living costs for the duration of their course, an arrival allowance, visa and healthcare surcharge fees, and one economy return flight.
Applications for 2023/24 scholarships are now closed.
Check back in the Autumn for information about next year's scholarships.
Find out more about how to apply for the Said Foundation Scholarship .
Generally international students find it easy to transition to life in the UK.
It’s also a great place to connect with fellow Jordanian students.
Take a tour of campus in Arabic
Nabil Shaban has dedicated his life to creating pioneering theatre works and campaigning for disability rights.
Born in Amman, Jordan, Nabil arrived in the UK aged three for treatment for brittle bone disease, and subsequently spent six years in hospital and seven in a children’s home.
In 1980, Nabil co-founded Graeae, a pioneering theatre company specialising in disability arts.
From Doctor Who to Hamlet, Nabil’s career spans an impressive list of film, theatre and television credits.
In 2005, he published ‘Dreams My Father Sold Me’,  an anthology of 30 years of his artwork and poetry.
Nabil is recognised for his political activism and campaigning and has written and presented documentaries challenging perceptions of disabled people.
Since 2000, Shaban has been based near Edinburgh where he has appeared in many productions, including his own play, ‘The First To Go’, which chronicles the treatment of disabled people under the Nazi regime and premiered at the Lyceum Theatre in Edinburgh in 2008.
Goldsmiths awarded Nabil Shaban an honorary fellowship in 2019.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/kazakhstan:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Kazakhstan.
Alex talks about studying at Goldsmiths.
This video is in Russian.
If you’re an Alumni you may also be eligible for discounted fees.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/kuwait:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Kuwait.
Find out more about the Kuwait Scholarship .
For further information, please use our scholarships finder .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/lebanon:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Lebanon.
The International team visits Lebanon regularly to take part in higher education events, deliver presentations, interview potential applicants and catch up with local alumni.
We work with several agents in Lebanon who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
London has a long-standing Arabic community, which means that students from Lebanon generally find it easy to transition to life here.
Food and drink Basic Lebanese ingredients can be bought in the larger UK supermarkets.
Time Out London has a list of the best Middle Eastern and Lebanese restaurants .
Both of them are updated regularly.
It’s also a great place to connect with fellow Lebanese students.
Find out what our Lebanese students have to say about their time at Goldsmiths.
"Studying with ICCE has allowed Amira to build upon her design experience and gain new strategic and business skills."
The MA in Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship has allowed Amira to build upon her design experience and gain new strategic and business skills.
After completion of the program, she went on to work as a Senior Strategist in a leading global insight agency based in London.
"Since completing my MA, I have led the development of 11 programmes in seven countries in the Middle East and Africa that blend social entrepreneurship and market systems development - with a focus on women and youth - to advance self-reliance, peace, civic engagement and recovery in crisis-affected communities."
Since I completed my MA Social Entrepreneurship course at Goldsmiths, I have led the development of 11 programmes in seven countries in the Middle East and Africa that blend social entrepreneurship and market systems development - with a focus on women and youth - to advance self-reliance, peace, civic engagement and recovery in crisis-affected communities.
A native of Lebanon, I currently oversee programme design and development (and contribute to the implementation) of a diverse portfolio of programmes; programme start-up feasibility and outreach; and organisational, partnership, and operational management strategy functions at the London-based Near East Foundation UK - as the Programme Director.
Designed programmes involve cross-cutting themes such as youth and women's empowerment, peace-building, and food security and resilience in development, early-recovery and emergency contexts.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/croatia:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Croatia.
We currently have a number of students from Croatia studying at Goldsmiths.
Read our Brexit information for students to find out how this could affect you.
We accept a Svjedodžba o Maturi .
AAA
5
AAB
4.5
ABB
4.2
BBB
4
BBC
3.6
BCC
CCC
3.4
Typical offers for students studying International Baccalaureate and European Baccalaureate can be found on our course pages.
We accept a Baccalaureus/Baccalaurea OR Prvostupnik/Prvostupnica.
1st
2:1
3
2:2
Details of English language qualifications we accept at undergraduate and postgraduate level can be found by clicking the relevant link.
Generally students from the EU find it easy to transition to life in London, but if you’re struggling then we can offer a whole range of support.
This includes Peer Assisted Learning (our student led mentor scheme), and our on-site Careers Service and Wellbeing.
Find out more about Student support services.
London caters for members of all faiths, and celebrates all of the major religious festivals.
Find out more about local places of worship .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/cyprus:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Cyprus.
We currently have a number of students from Cyprus studying at Goldsmiths.
You should refer to  to see whether your course has any additional application requirements.
Simply click the ‘apply now’ button on your .
We accept the Apolytirion OR Devlet Lise Diplomasi (State High School Diploma).
19.5
19
18.5
18
17
We accept the Ptychion.
9.0
8.0
6.5
Find out how some of our students have adjusted to life in the UK:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/czech-republic:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Czech Republic.
We currently have a number of students from Czech Republic studying at Goldsmiths.
We accept the Maturitni Zkouška / Maturita OR the Vysvedcení o Maturitní Zkoušce.
1.0
1.5
1.8
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
We accept the Magister OR a bachelor degree.
3.0
The English as part of the Maturita does not meet our English language requirements.
Further details of alternative English language qualifications we accept at undergraduate and postgraduate link level can be found by clicking the relevant link.
To find out more bout places of worship visit cityvisitor.co.uk

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/denmark:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Denmark.
We accept a Studentereksamen OR Højere Forberedelseseksamen OR Højere Handelseksamen (HHX) / Højere Teknisk Eksamen.
12
10
7
6
Typical offers for students studying International Baccalaureate and European Baccalaureate can be found on our course pages .
We accept a Candidatus Magisterii.
Find out more about places to worship in South-East London .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/estonia:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Estonia.
We currently have a number of students from Estonia studying at Goldsmiths.
We accept a Gumnaasiumi Loputunnistus (school-leaving exams) and Riigieksamid (state exams) when achieved in combination.
We accept a Bakalaureusekraad or bachelor degree.
5/A
4/B
3/C
Find out more about places of worship in South-East London .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/finland:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Finland.
We currently have a number of students from Finland studying a Goldsmiths.
Read our Brexit information for students and find out how this could affect you.
We accept a Ylioppilastutkinto/studentexamen.
L/7
AB
E/6
M/5
C/4
B/3
We accept Kandidaatti/Kandidat - Ekonomi, Diplomi-insinööri, Arkkitehti, Lisensiaatti, Proviisori OR the Maisteri/Magister OR the Kandidaatti/Kandidat.
Scale for all qualifications:
The English as part of the Ylioppilastutkinto / studentexamen does not meet our English language requirements.
Further details of alternative English language qualifications we accept at undergraduate and postgraduate level can be found by clicking the relevant link.
Take a look at how some of our students have adjusted to life in the UK:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/france:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from France.
We accept a Baccalauréat  or the Option Internationale du Baccalauréat (International Option of the French Baccalaureate or OIB).
14
13
11
We accept a Licence OR a Diplôme d'Ingénieur.
15

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/germany:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Germany.
We accept the Abitur.
1.7
We accept a Magister Artium/Diplom/Erstes Staatsexamen or a bachelor degree.
1
2

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/greece:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Greece.
We accept a Apolytirio of Lykeio (Apolytirion).
20
We accept a Ptychion awarded by an Anotera Ekpedeftika Idrimata (AEI).
9
7.5
6.4
Details of English language qualifications we accept at undergraduate and postgraduate link level can be found by clicking the relevant link.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/hungary:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Hungary.
There are currently a number of Hungarian students studying at Goldsmiths.
We accept the Erettsegi.
4.5 (5,4,4 in subjects)
4 (5,4,4 in subjects)
4 (4.,4,4 in subjects)
3 (4,4,3 in subjects)
3 (3,3,3 in subjects)
We accept an Egyetemi Oklevel.
The English as part of the Erettsegi does not meet our English language requirements.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/ireland:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Ireland.
We accept an Irish Leaving Certificate passed at Higher/ Honours level at the following grades:
H2, H2, H2, H3, H3 (2017 onwards) or A2, B1, B2, B2, B2 at Higher Level (Pre-2017)
We accept a bachelor (honours) degree or a Higher Diploma.
First class honours
Second class honours, grade I
Second class honours, grade II
Irish students pay the same tuition fees as British students.
They are also able to apply for some of our scholarships and bursaries, which are available at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
To find out more about tuition fees and financial support visit our fees and funding page.
For information about scholarships, please use our scholarships finder .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/italy:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Italy.
Please note these grades are a guide and do not guarantee entry to one of our degree programmes.
We accept an Esame di Stato.
95
90
85
80
75
70
65
We accept a Diploma di Laurea OR Licenza di Accademia di Belle Arti OR Diploma di Mediatore Linguistic OR Diploma di Laurea (Vecchio Ordinamento) OR Diploma accademico di primo livello.
110
105
100
Details of English language qualifications we accept at undergraduate and postgraduate level can be found by clicking the relevant link.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/latvia:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Latvia.
We currently have a number of Latvian students studying at Goldsmiths.
We accept an Atestats par visparejo videjo izglitibu and a successful pass in all compulsory state examinations.
A or 8.8 or 88% including at least 2 advanced level subjects
B or 8.5 or 85% including at least 2 advanced level subjects
B or 8 or 80% including at least 2 advanced level subjects
C or 70% including at least 2 advanced level subjects
C or 6 or 60% including at least 2 advanced level subjects
We accept a Bakalaur/bachelor degree OR Magistrs.
A or 10
B or 8
C or 6

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/lithuania:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Lithuania.
We currently have a number of student from Lithuania studying at Goldsmiths.
We accept a Brandos Atestatas plus successful completion of state examinations.
85% in 3 state exams
83% in 3 state exams
80% in 3 state exams
75% in 3 state exams
70% in 3 state exams
We accept a Bakalaur/bachelor degree OR a Magistras.
9 / 10
8

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/luxembourg:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Luxembourg.
We currently have a number of students from Luxembourg studying at Goldsmiths.
We accept a Diplôme de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires.
50
47
We accept a bachelors degree.
16
This includes PAL (our student led mentor scheme), and our on-site Careers Service and Counselling Service .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/malta:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Malta.
We currently have a number of students from Malta studying at Goldsmiths.
We accept an Advanced Matriculation (AM) or a Matriculation Certificate Examination.
AA
BB
BC
CC
Students who have studied A levels in Malta can expect the typical offer to be the same as UK A levels.
We accept a three year bachelor (honours) degree.
100-80% or Category I
79-70% or Category IIA
69-55% or Category IIB
The English as part of the Secondary Education Certificate does not meet our English language requirements.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/holland:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Netherlands.
We accept a Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO).
7.5 (8,8,8 in relevant subjects)
7 (7,8,8 in relevant subjects)
7 (7,7,8 in relevant subjects)
7 (7,7,7 in relevant subjects)
6 (7,7,6 in relevant subjects)
6 (7,6,6, in relevant subjects)
We accept a Doctoraal or a three year bachelor degree.
English language needs to be 8 in the VWO.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/norway:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Norway.
Our Norwegian graduates work in a diverse range of industries and for a whole host of companies.
These include BBC World Service, BT, Oslo University Hospital, Tottenham Hotspur Football Club and the United Nations Association of Norway.
Goldsmiths accepts the Norwegian VVO with a language score of 4 in English in lieu of a SELT, normally an IELTS test.
Applications are assessed on a case by case basis on their own merit, however occasionally we may request for applicants to provide a SELT if the time between their VVO completion and application to study at Goldsmiths is considerable, or where there is limited information on their spoken and written English with respect to further studies or employment experience.
If you require further information, please contact Admissions at admissions@gold.ac.uk or Jake Longley , the country manager for Norway.
For direct entry onto our undergraduate programmes , you’ll need a minimum GPA of 4.0 in the Vitnemål fra den Videregående opplæring and a 4.0 in English.
These will help you with your English language and academic skills and are run by our English Language Centre .
Goldsmiths considers Norwegian nationals (who wish to study in the UK) as International fee payers and they will need to pay international tuition fees.
However Norwegian nationals do not typically require a visa to study in the UK.
Norwegian students are able to apply to the Norwegian loan system to receive a grant for their studies.
If you’re an Alumni (including Study Abroad students) you may also be eligible for discounted fees.
There is a small but vibrant Norwegian community in London.
There are a number of places in London where you can get Norwegian food and drink including Nordic and Scandinavian Kitchen which also sells Norwegian produce to take away.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/poland:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Poland.
We accept Polish Matura with a minimum of 2 subjects at extended level.
80%
78%
75%
70%
65%
60%
We accept a bachelors degree OR Magister.
A1* or 4.8
A or 4.5
B or 4
The English as part of the Matura does not meet our English language requirements.
Further details of alternative English language qualifications we accept at undergraduate and postgraduate level can be found by clicking the relevant link.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/portugal:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Portugal.
We accept a Diploma Nível Secundário de Educação/Certificado Nível Secundário de Educação with relevant subjects for the degree you wish to study.
We accept a Licenciado.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/romania:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Romania.
We currently have a number of Romanian students studying at Goldsmiths.
We accept a Diploma de Bacalaureat with relevant subjects for the degree you wish to study.
9.5
8.5
We accept a Diploma de Inginer OR a Diploma de Licenta.
The English as part of the Diplome de Bacalaureat does not meet our English language requirements.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/slovakia:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Slovakia.
We currently have a number of students from Slovakia studying at Goldsmiths.
Simply click the ‘apply now’ button on your chosen programme page (link to course finder).
We accept a Maturita or a Vysvedcenie o Maturitnej Skúške.
We accept a Magister OR a Bakalár.
Overall score of 1.0/ Overall grade A
Overall score of 1.5/ Overall grade B
Overall score of 2.0/Overall grade C
The English as part of the Maturitná skúška does not meet our English language requirements.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/slovenia:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Slovenia.
We currently have a number of students from Slovenia studying in the UK.
We accept a Matura / Secondary School Leaving Diploma / Technical Matura
We accept a Univerzitetni Diplomirani.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/spain:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Spain.
We accept a Título de Bachillerato including subjects relevant to the degree you are applying to.
We accept a Licenciado/Licenciatura.
High 1st

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/eu/sweden:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Sweden.
The Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola will be considered for direct entry to our undergraduate programmes.
We typically look for successful completion with 2,000 credits at Grade B or higher (or 17.0), in the new system.
Alternatively, VG (Pass with Distinction) will be accepted if your qualification was completed under the old system.
We accept a Kandidatexamen OR Yrkesexamen OR Magisterexamen.
väl godkänd
1st - 2:1
godkänd
2:1 - 2:2
A Pass in English at grade C (minimum of 150 credits) will be accepted for programmes requiring an IELTS score of 6.0 with 6.0 in Writing.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/australia:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from Australia.
In order to apply for our undergraduate programmes, you’ll need to have completed your High School Certificate plus ATAR.
Please see individual programme pages for any additional entrance requirements.
For entry onto postgraduate programmes, you will normally need a Bachelors degree in a relevant subject.
You will normally need a Masters degree in a relevant subject.
Find out more about the programme on our Study Abroad page .
For further information, please use our scholarships finder.
If you're unable to visit Goldsmiths in person then we also run regular online events, including webinars, virtual tours and chat sessions.
After a taste of home?
There are a number of online shops including Sanza which offer delivery of Australian foods and home comforts.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/international/regions/newzealand:
Here’s our guide to studying at Goldsmiths for students from New Zealand.
We will also accept students who have completed the University Entrance Certificate with a National Certificate in Educational Achievement Level 3.
We work with several agents in New Zealand who can give you information about studying at Goldsmiths and help you with the application process.
There is a sizeable antipodean community in London, which includes large numbers of New Zealanders and Australians.
There are a number of online shops including Sanza which can deliver New Zealand foods and home comforts.
Celebrations and places of worship Sites like http://www.tntmagazine.com are a good place to look for New Zealand events in London including concerts, film festivals and arts events.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/about/about-goldsmiths:
We offer a space for self-discovery, delivering world-leading research and excellent teaching from our single-site campus in the heart of South East London.
Part of the prestigious University of London, we combine academic excellence with creative and innovative approaches to teaching and learning.
Teaching across our academic departments spans the arts, humanities, social sciences, cultural studies, computing, law, teaching, social work and business management – bringing everything you’d expect from a world-renowned arts institution and much more.
Whatever you study with us, you’ll find conversations that spark your creativity at every turn.
You’ll find course content informed by world-leading research.
And you’ll find tutors who encourage you to question traditional perspectives.
By learning with us you’ll explore ideas and be part of new thinking every day.
Find out more about studying with us
Our research draws on expertise from across our disciplines to help us craft responses to some of the most pressing topics of our time – including environmental sustainability, population change, AI and sexual, gender and racial equality.
We cooperate extensively with other academic institutions to find novel ways of approaching the issues that matter in our society.
And we look beyond our sector, collaborating at local and national level with NGOs, businesses and governments to share knowledge and in turn enrich our own.
All of this means a rich learning environment shaped by real-world issues.
Find out more about our research
Being part of our community opens doors for your career.
The collaborative nature of our campus experience, our strong industry links and the support we offer our students and staff means your time at Goldsmiths will help you to achieve your aspirations.
Our graduates go on to do amazing things across many industries.
From filmmakers to entrepreneurs, art therapists to journalists, musicians to teachers and social workers – our alumni are changing the face of British culture and making a real difference in our society.
From start-ups to multinational corporations – our community has the expertise to help your organisation achieve its goals, whatever the size or sector.
We support SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) in our home borough of Lewisham by playing an active role in local programmes.
Our world-leading academics regularly share their expertise through consultancy, mentoring and research projects.
And our talented and creative students and graduates can play a transformative role in your business.
Find out more about working with us
We are one of 50 universities in the Civic University Network, which means we’re committed to prioritising the local economy and quality of life in our home borough of Lewisham and across London.
Through our Green New Deal project we are working to enhance the environment of our campus and surrounding area for everyone who spends time at Goldsmiths or nearby.
We’re proud of our many local partnerships, including with local authority and NHS partners as well as South East London charities and arts and culture organisations.
Our campus is open to the public, with exciting cultural offerings including our Goldsmiths Centre for Contemporary Art , as well as regular talks and events and spaces to hire for community groups.
Find out more about our work with our local community
We are a diverse community welcoming people from all over the world – over a third of our students and staff come from outside the UK.
Our campus is located in London, one of the most diverse cities in the world where more than 300 languages are spoken each day.
Firmly committed to our South East London roots, we are global in our reach and outlook, collaborating with universities and colleges from around the world and undertaking research with an international focus.
Discover our courses , see our vacancies and talk to us about partnerships .
Read about Goldsmiths' history .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance:
Governance describes the processes that ensure the College is administered in an ethical, sustainable and legally compliant way.
How Council and its committees are structured, roles and responsibilities.
The purpose, terms of reference, and members for each committee.
The founding document presented by The Queen when it acquired its status as a higher education institution in 1990.
Details of the members of the College, the functions of bodies, and conditions of service for academic staff.
Detailed information, terms and conditions about specific areas of College business and governance.
The standard operating procedures explain the conduct and responsibilities of Council and its Committees.
These provide control over our resources, ensuring they are properly applied for the achievement of our objectives.
Rules and guidance for how processes and systems are operated.
Our mission and values articulate what type of institution we are and what is important to us.
The Student Casework team look after matters involving Student Complaints , Academic Appeals and Student Conduct .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/about/history:
In 1792 the Counter Hill Academy opened its doors in New Cross, in a house built by Deptford distiller, William Goodhew.
The Royal Naval School then bought the site, building what is now our Richard Hoggart Building in 1843.
The Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths acquired the school and reopened it in 1891 as The Goldsmiths’ Company’s Technical and Recreative Institute.
With the dawn of the twentieth century, the Company handed over the Institute to the University of London.
It was re-christened Goldsmiths College and the modern era of Goldsmiths had begun.
Goldsmiths Art students, 1908
The Counter Hill Academy, a private boarding school for boys, stood on the site of modern-day Goldsmiths from 1792 until 1838.
After the Academy closed, the Royal Naval School bought the site.
Over the next five decades they provided an education to the sons of officers in the Royal Navy and Royal Marines.
The Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths, one of the most powerful of London’s ‘City Livery Companies’, purchased the site and buildings after the Naval School moved out in 1889.
Two years later, The Goldsmiths’ Company’s Technical and Recreative Institute opened.
For 13 years, the Company ran a hugely successful operation.
At its peak over 7,000 male and female students were enrolled, drawn from the ‘industrial and working classes’ of the New Cross area.
Trainee teachers at Goldsmiths in the early 1900s
The Technical and Recreative Institute offered a range of classes in the arts and sciences.
Many of these led to City and Guilds or other awards.
The Goldsmiths Company had established the School of Art as part of their Institute and continued to fund it after the College was created.
The School began to shift focus towards fine arts, to distinguish itself from the trade and craft-based institutions found in London at the time.
At first, few art students sat exams or received any qualification at the end of their course.
Nevertheless, the College produced many noted artists including the nationally recognised ‘Goldsmiths School’ of etchers, and the war artist Graham Sutherland.
As the twentieth century progressed, art education became more academic.
In 1904 the College became part of the prestigious University of London.
By the early 1960s, we were teaching highly respected Diploma courses in painting, sculpture and textiles.
In the pre- and post-war years, the Goldsmiths’ Evening Department made up the other main part of the College.
The Department offered predominantly non-vocational courses, maintaining the traditions of the original Goldsmiths Institute.
The wide range of study on offer hinted at the explosion of choice in the decades to come.
Throughout the 1960s and 1970s our portfolio of degree courses expanded as the number of students grew.
Subjects that had been taught as part of teacher training evolved into degree programmes in their own right.
By the start of the 1980s we were offering undergraduate and postgraduate studies across the arts and humanities, and student numbers had more than doubled.
The start of the 1990s saw Goldsmiths acquire its present status as a higher education institution.
Her Majesty the Queen presented the College with a Royal Charter .
Cinematography students
In 2019 the QS World University Rankings recognised our world-leading status in the field of Arts and Humanities, placing Goldsmiths in the world’s top 100 institutions for these subjects.
Goldsmiths came out in the top fifty worldwide for five of the academic subject areas covered in the rankings.
Today we actively encourage close links between our departments so students can learn in a fertile interdisciplinary atmosphere.
This allows us to develop new programmes and new research opportunities that lead the way in contemporary academic thinking.
College Green and the Grade II listed Richard Hoggart Building, c.1908.
In 1843, the Royal Naval School commissioned the renowned Victorian architect Robert Shaw to design and build what has today become our Richard Hoggart Building.
In the 1890s the Goldsmiths Company added a gymnasium, a concert hall and a swimming pool.
Shortly after the College was founded, the Goldsmiths Company provided funding for a new School of Art.
This imposing building, opened in 1907, was designed by Sir Richard Blomfield - whose other main claim to fame was to design the now ubiquitous standard electricity pylon.
During the Second World War teacher training was relocated to University College, Nottingham.
The students escaped the aerial blitz, but our college buildings did not.
On 29 December 1940, incendiary bombs destroyed the roof, the library and much of the top floor of the Richard Hoggart Building.
1944 saw further damage and in May 1945 bombs completely destroyed the College’s swimming baths.
College activities didn’t resume until the autumn term of 1946, but by May 1947 nearly all of the wartime damage had been repaired.
The College swimming pool in 1939, at the outbreak of the Second World War
A busy period of development accompanied our expansion in the 1960s.
We added the Whitehead, Lockwood and Education Buildings.
We erected the Warmington Tower, built St James’s Hall, and added a new extension to the Richard Hoggart Building.
The Warmington Tower, an iconic 1960s building on campus
In 1998 we opened the Rutherford Building and it received a RIBA award as one of the 10 best new buildings in the capital.
2005 saw us open the eye-catching Ben Pimlott Building, a seven-story, purpose-built teaching space containing new art studios and lecture theatres, and providing accommodation for our psychology and digital media labs.
The striking Ben Pimlott Building opened in 2005
The Professor Stuart Hall Building followed in 2010, housing our Media, Communications and Cultural Studies Department and our Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship.
The Professor Stuart Hall Building also gave us additional teaching rooms, meeting spaces, a new café and a new 250-seat lecture theatre.
In 2018 we opened the Goldsmiths Centre for Contemporary Art.
Designed by Turner Prize-winning architects Assemble and housed in the Grade II-listed former Laurie Grove Baths, this free public gallery hosts a varied programme of shows, projects and residencies by national and international artists and curators, bringing world-class art to South East London.
The Goldsmiths Centre for Contemporary Art
At Goldsmiths we aim to recognise and nurture talent.
Nine of our alumni and staff have been Turner Prize winners and a further 24 have been shortlisted.
Among these is Steve McQueen, the first Black director to win Best Picture Oscar for his 2014 film 12 Years A Slave.
2019 saw Bernardine Evaristo take home the Booker Prize for her novel Girl, Woman, Other, becoming the first Black woman to receive the prestigious literary award.
Our former students are also among winners of the Mercury Music Prize, the Ivor Novello Award, BAFTA and many more.
In 2013 we established the Goldsmiths Prize to reward innovation in fiction.
The inaugural prize went to Eimear McBride for her debut novel A Girl is a Half-Formed Thing.
In 2019, Lucy Ellmann was awarded the prize for Ducks, Newburyport.
Lucy Ellmann wins the Goldsmiths Prize in 2019
In 1891, when Goldsmiths Institute was established, its mission was ‘the promotion of the individual skill, general knowledge, health and wellbeing of young men and women belonging to the industrial, working and poorer classes’.
7,000 students were enrolled by 1900, attracted by a thriving recreational programme and the broad range of courses in craft skills, music, languages, art and sciences.
Residents living in the cramped industrial districts around New Cross could enjoy rowing, rambling, swimming or tennis; and join the choir, the Camera Club or the Men’s or Women’s Literary Society.
In 1931, the College’s Evening Institute launched, bringing new impetus to our programme of extracurricular education.
The Evening Department grew steadily, enrolling 1,400 in the last year of peacetime.
After the war, the Department expanded, with 3,300 students enrolled by 1950.
The Department’s objective, as stated in its 1956 prospectus was ‘to enable men and women to widen their knowledge and interests and enrich their leisure time’.
The spirit of 1891 was very much alive at Goldsmiths.
Into the modern era, Goldsmiths remains committed to active involvement in community initiatives in New Cross and South East London.
In 2019 we unveiled a community mural commemorating the 1977 Battle of Lewisham, following a collaborative project between Goldsmiths and local community groups.
In the same year, we worked with our partners Lewisham Council on a winning bid to make Lewisham a London Borough of Culture for 2021, rescheduled to 2022 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
In 2021 Goldsmiths was the first university in London to launch a Civic University Agreement.
Developed in partnership with 11 other local anchor institutions in the Borough of Lewisham, our Civic University Agreement commits us to working collectively to address some of the most pressing issues facing our local communities.
Community mural on the side of the Rutherford Building, commemorating the 1977 Battle of Lewisham

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/strategy:
Our strategy to 2033
We forge positive change through all of our activities: from education to research, creative and professional practice and knowledge exchange.
There is a synergy between our work, sparked by the innovative and enquiring spirit fostered since we welcomed our first students as a place of higher education in 1905.
With all our academic subjects taking a creative approach to address what it means to be human in the 21st century, we nurture skills with criticality to inspire transformative intellectual and personal development in our students.
Our community has an impact on society, culture, the economy and environment in our home borough of Lewisham, in London, across the UK and around the world, with our students, graduates and staff equipped with the ability and insight to benefit society while building rewarding and relevant careers.
We will make the world a better, more equitable place by applying knowledge through action.
As a progressive university, we will use innovation and creativity to challenge the status quo.
With a strong focus on local and global equality, we will tackle the challenges and seize the opportunities of our time to deliver positive, ambitious and sustainable change.
Our dynamic range of innovative educational programmes and partnerships will offer transformative experiences that foster intellectual and emotional growth and resilience.
Our students will develop an appreciation of complexity, subtlety and diverse perspectives.
They will learn to leverage personal experiences to drive critical enquiry and creative practice.
They will value collaboration over competition and achieve their goals both effectively and ethically.
Our graduates will be reflective, values-driven citizens and professionals who are equipped to have ongoing social, cultural, economic and environmental impact within their chosen fields and communities.
Read more about our academic pillar, A distinctive learning environment (PDF) .
Research at Goldsmiths will be shaped through attracting, retaining and supporting world-class talent.
Brilliant ideas will come to fruition by providing solid ground for exchange and experimentation and they will be tested and strengthened in real-world encounters.
Our research will be deepened and made more resilient through collaborating closely with external partners.
We will co-create solutions to enduring global problems.
We will draw on our rich history of creative practice and imagination for societal wellbeing and we will provide the tools to hold truth to power.
We will learn and grow through engagement with others.
Read more about our academic pillar, Research addressing the great challenges (PDF) .
We believe that new ways of thinking, doing and creating can effectively address society’s problems and needs.
By embedding social challenges within our curriculum, we will empower our graduates with the skills and attributes necessary for their careers and civic lives.
Our distinctive mix of disciplines will allow us to advance research and knowledge exchange priorities, collaborating with local and global communities to drive cultural and societal enrichment.
Guided by the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, we will focus on tackling inequalities, enhancing culture, promoting social justice, and fostering health and wellbeing.
Read more about our academic pillar, Social innovation central to all we do (PDF) .
Our physical and digital campuses will reflect how students want to learn today.
We will provide wrap-around support for all aspects of our students’ lives, supporting intellectual, emotional, reflective, and experiential growth to help point them to their future lives and careers.
Continuous improvement grounded in student and staff feedback and co-creation will ensure that effective processes and systems provide a foundation to enable our students to grow and explore.
We will foster a supportive and collaborative staff community, built on trust and empathy.
Just as we do with our students, we will ensure that effective processes and systems provide a solid foundation where roles and responsibilities are clearly defined, and work is aligned with our strategic priorities, effective governance, and transparent engagement.
Our commitment to staff wellbeing and tailored professional development will ensure that our colleagues thrive.
We will celebrate our unique culture and values, with equality, diversity, and inclusion at the core of everything we do.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/about/executive-board:
Our Executive Board is responsible for overseeing the academic and administrative leadership of Goldsmiths.
As Vice-Chancellor, Professor Frances Corner OBE is the academic and administrative leader of Goldsmiths.
Previously Head of the London College of Fashion and Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the University of the Arts London, Professor Corner brings more than 20 years’ experience in higher education leadership to Goldsmiths.
Frances Corner's profile
To get in touch with Frances, contact executiveoffice (@gold.ac.uk) .
If you have a media request for the Warden, please contact the press office .
As Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor David Oswell is responsible for leading the development and overseeing the implementation of Goldsmiths’ Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy.
As Provost he is the senior academic of Goldsmiths with membership of the Executive Board, with responsibility for Strategic Planning and Projects as we go through a time of development.
David joined Goldsmiths in 2001 and from 2013 to 2016 was Head of Department for Sociology.
His current research interests concern the social life and history of children, childhood and children’s rights.
David leads the academic pillar Research addressing the great challenges in our institutional strategy, A better world through knowledge and action.
David Oswell's staff profile
To get in touch with David, contact executiveoffice (@gold.ac.uk) .
Professor Annabel Kiernan is responsible for strategic oversight of the College’s academic portfolio, education and the student experience, and academic staff progression and development.
A political scientist by discipline, Annabel’s academic career spans three decades, with leadership roles focused on transforming teaching and learning, advancing inclusion, and supporting student success across the sector.
Annabel leads the academic pillar A distinctive learning environment in our institutional strategy, A better world through knowledge and action.
To get in touch with Annabel, contact executiveoffice (@gold.ac.uk) .
Professor Adam Dinham is the lead for Goldsmiths' incoming Faculty structure, overseeing the Faculty of Creative Arts and Media and Faculty of Society and Innovation.
He is also the university's lead for Culture and Belonging and is Professor of Faith and Public Policy.
Adam’s research interests focus on a social justice framing of religion and belief as a protected characteristic in equality policy and practice, particularly across health and social care and schools.
He is professionally qualified in Social Work and psychotherapy.
Adam Dinham's Staff Profile
Imran joined Goldsmiths in September 2021 as Chief Finance Officer, becoming Chief Finance and Infrastructure Officer in 2024 with responsibility for IT, Estates, Risk Management, Resilience and Compliance, and Communications, Recruitment and Marketing.
He previously worked for Aamal Company Q.P.S.C, a publicly-listed company operating within Industrials, Life Sciences and Real Estate sectors where he was Group CFO.
Prior to Aamal, Imran was Group CFO at Zuellig Pharma, Asia's largest Pharma distributor, having also worked at Huawei Technologies and Whirlpool Corporation.
As the executive lead of the People and Organisational Development directorate, Margaret is responsible for delivering the College’s human resources work.
She joined Goldsmiths in July 2024, bringing extensive experience from a career in the NHS and higher education.
Margaret leads the operational pillar A culture of good work in our institutional strategy, A better world through knowledge and action.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/equality-diversity:
We are passionate about advancing equality and celebrating diversity at Goldsmiths.
At Goldsmiths, University of London, we are deeply committed to equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) in both principle and practice.
We work to ensure that EDI is embedded across all areas of university life from our policies and teaching to the experiences of our students and staff.
This year, Goldsmiths introduced an Engagement and Wellbeing Plan (PDF) that sets out our EDI commitments for the next three years.
Creating an inclusive and respectful environment where everyone feels they belong is central to our values.
We recognise that people thrive when they are seen, heard, and valued for who they are.
That’s why we’re committed to removing barriers, addressing inequalities, and supporting the success and wellbeing of our whole community regardless of background, identity, or circumstance.
We know that building an inclusive institution takes sustained effort, collaboration, and openness to change.
At Goldsmiths, we are approaching this work with purpose, transparency, and care because EDI is not a single initiative, but a shared responsibility.
We are rightly proud of this history.
But there is more to do – which is why we have a team of specialists leading our work in this area on an ongoing basis.
Our aim is to embed equality, diversity, and inclusion across Goldsmiths and make it a part of everything that we do.
Fundamentally, we want to provide opportunities for all staff to develop and thrive in their careers here.
Waqar Ali, Assistant Director of EDI, Culture and Belonging
The team takes an equitable, collaborative and inclusive approach, placing staff wellbeing and belonging front and centre.
It seeks to cater to the diversity of all members of the Goldsmiths community.
It also leads on publishing our annual Equality, Diversity and Inclusion report.
This allows us to review our progress and set new objectives on an annual basis, and is one of our obligations under the Public Sector Equality Duty.
Previous years' reports are published at the bottom of this page.
Goldsmiths has six staff networks, focused on Disability, Gender, LGBTQ+, Race Equality, Parenting and Caring responsibilities, and Menopause.
Goldsmiths has long been a Stonewall Diversity Champion, and since February 2023 has held a Stonewall Silver Award .
We are proud of our strong commitment to advancing LGBTQ+ equality and to maintaining an inclusive environment for everyone.
We hold a Bronze Athena Swan Award , which evidences our commitment to gender equality across the institution and in particular departments.
We are a member of the Disability Confident scheme, and actively encourage applications from disabled people for positions at Goldsmiths.
Every year we publish an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion report, in line with our obligations under the Public Sector Equality Duty.
2010 saw a lot of change in the landscape for equality, diversity and inclusion with the introduction of the Equality Act.
Following this, a further Public Sector Equality Duty was introduced on 5th April 2011.
The Equality Duty is a duty on public bodies, including Higher Education Institutes (HEIs) and others carrying out public functions.
It is designed to help HEIs fulfil the requirements of the Equality Act by taking proactive steps to:
In 2015, Goldsmiths launched a renewed Equality and Diversity Strategy which aims to drive forward our aims to embed equality, diversity and inclusion into everything that we do, and go beyond our legal obligations, to be recognised as a leading Higher Education Institution in this area.
There are also three specific obligations we must meet as part of our Public Sector Equality Duty:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/academic-partnerships:
These partners share our values in achieving excellence in interdisciplinary teaching, research and practice.
We offer the opportunity to develop and deliver collaborative degree programmes leading to an internationally-recognised degree award of Goldsmiths.
We work with our partners on a variety of high-quality collaborative arrangements.
Work with Goldsmiths to develop unique collaborative degree programmes.
Information for students enrolled at our partner institutions.
Our academic partners work with us to deliver validated, blended-learning and dual degree programmes.
Details of all of our academic partnerships are published on Goldsmiths’ Academic Partnerships Register (PDF) .
Asia’s leading tertiary institution in contemporary arts and design education and practice.
Is the UK’s largest Music Therapy charity.
A centre for excellence in teacher education in the Philippines.
The oldest educational institution for the performing arts in modern Greece.
The flagship Higher Education Institution of Croatia’s largest private educational organisation.
Britain’s leading dance theatre company working in African and Caribbean dance fusion.
Oklahoma City University is a private university in the U.S.A.
established in 1904.
Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) is renowned as one of China's most prestigious institutions of higher education.
Renowned for its global perspective and emphasis on practical skills in design.
A dual Bachelor’s degree programme in the fields of multimedia and digital media.
Shanghai Theatre Academy is one of China’s prestigious institutions for performing arts.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/goldsmithscca:
Our ambition is to make Lewisham a must-visit destination for anyone interested in the best contemporary art; Sarah McCrory, Director of Goldsmiths CCA
Situated at the heart of Goldsmiths, University of London’s campus in New Cross, Goldsmiths CCA is housed in a Victorian bath house reimagined by Turner Prize-winning architectural collective Assemble.
The gallery builds on Goldsmiths’ world-renowned reputation for art practice, providing an inspiring source of creativity and debate for the public, students and artists and academics.
Led by Director Sarah McCrory, Goldsmiths CCA hosts international artists, projects and residencies alongside talks, performances, films and other events related to the wider exhibition programme.
It is open to everyone.
Goldsmiths CCA is housed in the Grade II-listed former Laurie Grove Baths, breathing new life into a building which has played an important role locally for more than 100 years.
After it opened in 1898 the building had a varied existence: it has been a place for local people to bathe and learn to swim, a dancehall, and a venue for gigs, wrestling and community events.
The swimming pool closed in 1991 and Goldsmiths purchased the building in 1999.
The pools were subsequently converted into studio space for students in the Department of Art, alongside offices and learning spaces.
In 2014 the College announced an ambitious project to convert the spaces housing the water tanks and slipper baths into a world-leading art gallery.
Architecture collective Assemble, which went on to win the Turner Prize in 2015, won the competition to oversee the renovation of the new space.
Praised by The Guardian as brave, anarchic and inventive , Goldsmiths CCA is 1000m2 in total, with 700m2 of exhibition space across eight distinct galleries including a rooftop gallery in the former cast-iron tanks which supplied the swimming pools.
The £4.6million project to transform the building was made possible thanks to the help of a number of supporters.
These include alumni like Damien Hirst, Sarah Lucas, Sir Anthony Gormley and Bridget Riley.
The Development and Alumni Office at Goldsmiths oversaw the most successful fundraising campaign in the College’s history to help make Goldsmiths CCA a reality.
In total some £3.8million has so far been raised to support the capital project and ongoing programming.
Go to goldsmithscca.art for details of the exhibition programme
Sign up to the Goldsmiths CCA newsletter to keep up to date with upcoming exhibitions, events, new editions and publications.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/about/global:
Goldsmiths, University of London is a small campus community with a global reach, bringing learning to life through powerful conversations and personal connections.
Proud to nurture the best and the brightest minds, we’re looking at the world through our own lens.
As part of the internationally respected University of London for more than a century, we have history and tradition on our side.
And more recently we’ve become known for the innovative and creative ways in which we teach and research our subjects.
Read our Internationalisation Strategy 2016-21 (PDF) .
Goldsmiths has a strong reputation based on our influential research and creative practice, much of it on themes of cross‐cultural relevance and much of it recognised externally as world‐leading and of international excellence.
Our academic community of staff, students and visiting researchers are diverse in geographical origin and are attracted here because of this reputation; some are drawn specifically by our distinctive emphases on exploration of cultural issues in, and across, particular societies or regions of the world.
Our academic staff are extensively networked with overseas colleagues, collaborating in numerous ways on scholarly activities which are of widespread influence on the development of knowledge and the shaping of society.
Reflecting the combination of our academic expertise in international priority areas and our outward‐facing engagement, we have been awarded numerous EU‐funded grants – more than most universities, and certainly disproportionate to our size.
We likewise have strong teaching and professional partnerships with numerous universities and organisations in other countries.
In particular, we are proud to validate undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at Singapore’s innovative LASALLE College of the Arts ; to host a unique Confucius Institute specialising in Dance and Performance, in partnership with the prestigious Beijing Dance Academy ; and to offer, in collaboration with the University of London, distance learning programmes to students worldwide.
With a growing number of Erasmus partnerships supporting enhanced staff and student mobility as well as a wide range of consultancy offering tailor-made programmes and projects such as training for local media professionals through our Media/Academic Partners.
We are now increasing our investment in internationalisation activity, with the aims of extending and capitalising on our existing connections to achieve the following benefits:
A research environment facilitating internationally collaborative activities, disseminated through prominent outputs that tackle issues of international significance, shape cultural understanding, and develop creative and professional practices.
Curricula and learning experiences that will give our graduates international perspectives and networks, equipping them for careers in multicultural environments.
Programmes which are internationally relevant and linked to on-campus support/opportunities, offering not only a stimulating and high-quality education but a great well-rounded experience.
A dynamic and vibrant work culture that attracts top-quality staff from around the world, which encourages international collaborations and exchanges of staff in research and scholarship, and fosters in academic and professional staff a deep appreciation of internationalisation and its benefits to the institution, the country, the region and the world.
A vibrant and extensive network which is actively facilitated through regular tailored communications and events in locations across the world.
A range of services including validation, joint awards, the off-campus delivery of short courses, or articulation arrangements.
Partnerships.
Find out more about how and where we partner, both locally and globally and the collaborative provision services we can offer.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/goldsmiths-press:
Taking advantage of digital technologies and experimenting with the many attractions of print, Goldsmiths Press seeks to revive and regenerate the traditions of academic publishing.
Our aim is to create a new culture around academic knowledge practices, one that is more innovative and less constrained than it is now.
24/25 catalogue
We offer a variety of opportunities for students to get involved with the press, including membership on our editorial board, and publishing workshops.
Gain insight into the process of academic publishing and help us make essential decisions!
Keep an eye out on our social channels for upcoming events and opportunities -
@goldsmithspress on X and Instagram
@goldsmithspress.bsky.social on Bluesky
Gold SF is dedicated to discovering and publishing new intersectional feminist science fiction, promoting voices that answer to the unprecedented times in which we find ourselves, and orientated towards to social, economic, and environmental justice.
Current publications include: Empathy , Mathematics for Ladies , The Disinformation War , The Ghostwriters and The Other Shore , with more coming later this year!
For the latest reviews, announcements and publishing dates, follow the dedicated Gold SF twitter account here .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/term-dates:
Some programmes have variations to these dates
19 - 26 September 2025
Starts: 22 September 2025 Reading week: 3 - 7 November 2025 Ends: 12 December 2025
24 December 2025 - 2 January 2026
Starts: 12 January 2026 Reading week: 16 - 20 February 2026 Ends: 27 March 2026
2 April - 7 April 2026
Starts: 27 April 2026 Undergraduate ends: 19 June 2026 Postgraduate ends: 22 September 2026
* Check with your academic department if your course observes Reading Week.
** Over Christmas and Easter services and buildings will be closed, except for ,  and student accommodation.
18 - 25 September 2026
Starts: 21 September 2026 Reading week: 2 - 6 November 2026 Ends: 11 December 2026
24 December 2026 - 3 January 2027
Starts: 4 January 2027 Reading week: 8 - 12 February 2027 Ends: 19 March 2027
25 March - 30 March 2027
Starts: 19 April 2027 Undergraduate ends: 11 June 2027 Postgraduate ends: 21 September 2027
** Over Christmas and Easter services and buildings will be closed, except for Library , Campus Support Officers and student accommodation.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/open-book:
Open Book is a widening participation initiative run at Goldsmiths, University of London.
We are a hub for education, support and research, aiming to make teaching and learning, at any level, open and accessible to everyone.
We provide free open access classes in a range of subjects, along with skills training, pastoral support and a qualification route into University.
Open Book has helped hundreds of people to find places at university.
Find out more here.
Everyone is welcome, whatever ability.
Be sure of a warm welcome and lively discussions.
We work outside the university, with students in a range of communities.
External support is a vital contribution to the work of Open Book.
Exploring creativity is at the heart of all our work.
openbook (@gold.ac.uk) (+44) 207 919 7759 Deptford Town Hall, First Floor, Room M6 Find us on campus

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/about/gnd:
Goldsmiths is working to address the climate emergency.
The background to our work, who is involved and how we are measuring progress.
We have committed to becoming a carbon neutral organisation by 2025.
We are improving our campus so that it can better support human health and wildlife.
We've embedded our response to the climate emergency across our research and civic engagement work.
We want to ensure our students learn about the global climate emergency and its wide-ranging impacts.
We are working to reduce the carbon intensity of catering at Goldsmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/race-justice:
Goldsmiths continues its work to advance race equality for all and tackle the root causes of institutional racism.
The guiding principles for anti-racism work at Goldsmiths.
The Board responsible for ensuring the College is effectively challenging racial injustice.
The College's strategy to address institutional barriers to race equality.
An independent inquiry into antisemitism is taking place at Goldsmiths, with an open call for evidence.
Goldsmiths is a member of the Advance HE Race Equality Charter and is working towards a Bronze Award.
Goldsmiths is working to meet a range of commitments made to Goldsmiths Anti-Racist Action (GARA).
The work Goldsmiths is doing to address this, which is also known as the Attainment Gap.
How we're approaching Anti-Racism Training for all staff.
Examining the role of race in shaping the experiences of Black and minority ethnic students at Goldsmiths.
Some key texts engaging with Race Justice, from introductory texts to reports.
Terminology and acronyms typically used in Race Justice work.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/about/responses-statements:
A freedom of information request regarding the independent inquiry into antisemitism.
A letter to the Secretary of State for Education following the conclusion of the independent inquiry into antisemitism, which sets out our antisemitism action plan.
Similar letters were sent to key stakeholders including our local MPs.
A letter to our local MP Vicky Foxcroft setting out the importance of certainty over international students who bring  economic, cultural and social benefit to us and our home borough of Lewisham.
Similar letters were sent to Lewisham MPs Janet Daby and Ellie Reeves.
A statement on unrest in the UK with links to support for students and colleagues.
It was published on 7 August 2024.
Commitments made by SMT to student-led campaign group Goldsmiths for Palestine, following their occupation of the Professor Stuart Hall building in Spring term 2024.
Response from Goldsmiths’ Senior Management Team (SMT) to a set of demands issued by student-staff campaign group Goldsmiths for Palestine (GfP): SMT response to GfP 1 March 2024 (PDF)
A statement from Goldsmiths' Senior Management Team over the Middle East crisis.
Apology to Professor Des Freedman and Dr Gholam Khiabany (PDF)
Letter to Robert Halfon MP (PDF) responding to his assertion that free school meals are included in TEF benchmarking.
Letter to Gillian Keegan MP (PDF) in response to the government announcement over changes to the university sector.
Statement on transphobia , following graffiti and stickers using transphobic slogans appearing on campus.
Response to Freedom of Information (FOI) request 2379 enquiry regarding senior remuneration and expenses: FOI 2379 Response and Attachments (PDF)
Letter to Oliver Dowden CBE MP (PDF) about the decision not to reappoint Dr Aminul Hoque MBE, Lecturer in Educational Studies at Goldsmiths, as a trustee of Royal Museums Greenwich.
Goldsmiths' response to the Office for Students consultation on recurrent funding for 2021-22: OfS recurrent funding response (PDF)
During academic year 2020/21, students from Goldsmiths who are living in halls of residence used by Goldsmiths students joined together to form the Goldsmiths Rent Strike group.
This document sets out the issues raised by Goldsmiths Rent Strike which directly relate to accommodation as well as broader requests made by the group: Responding to Goldsmiths Rent Strike (PDF)
Goldsmiths' response to being cited in a national campaign around investments in arms firms: Statement on investment claims (PDF)
Letter to Goldsmiths Students' Union (PDF) and Letter to Goldsmiths UCU (PDF) responding to claims about Goldsmiths investing in Israeli arms firms.
Joint statement issued by Goldsmiths, University of London and Goldsmiths UNISON about ongoing collaborative efforts during the Covid-19 pandemic .
Goldsmiths’ response to the Office for Students consultation on quality and standards .
Goldsmiths’ response to the Universities UK consultation of USS employers on the second Joint Expert Panel report: Response to the JEP2 Consultation (PDF)
Statement on institutional racism
Goldsmiths’ response to Research England’s consultation on developing the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF): Download our response (PDF)
Goldsmiths’ response to Dame Shirley Pearce’s review of the Teaching Excellence and Student Outcomes Framework (TEF): Goldsmiths Pearce Review response (PDF)
Goldsmiths’ response to the Universities UK consultation of USS employers on the Joint Expert Panel recommendations: Download our response (PDF)
Goldsmiths’ response to the AHRC’s consultation on its Strategic Delivery Plan: Download our response (PDF)
Goldsmiths’ response to the UPP Foundation’s Civic University Commission : Civic University Commission submission (PDF)
Goldsmiths’ response to the Mayor of London’s Draft Culture Strategy ‘Culture for all Londoners’: Goldsmiths reponse to MoL Culture Strategy (PDF)
Goldsmiths’ response to the call for evidence for the Review of post-18 education and funding: Post-18 Funding Review response (PDF)
Goldsmiths’ response to the DfE’s consultation on the proposed design of subject-level Teaching Excellence and Student Outcomes Framework (TEF): Goldsmiths Subject-Level TEF Consultation response (PDF)
Goldsmiths’ proposals to The Creative Industries Sector Deal: Goldsmiths response to Creative Industries Sector Deal (PDF)
Goldsmiths’ response to ‘Building Our Industrial Strategy’ Green Paper: Industrial Strategy Green Paper consultation response (PDF)
Goldsmiths' response to the call for evidence for 'Lord Stern's review of the Research Excellence Framework': Download our response (Word doc download)
Goldsmiths’ response to the ‘Fullfilling our Potential: Teaching Excellence, Social Mobility and Student Choice’ Green Paper: Download our response (PDF)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information:
Reports, statements, and statutory information about Goldmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/about:
We attract talented, insightful and diverse researchers and provides a rich environment that nurtures the next generation.
Knowledge creation and exchange – from curiosity-driven research to real-world problem-solving – underpins the intellectual and creative culture of the entire Goldsmiths’ community.
We are committed to building and sustaining our research capacity, addressing challenges that face humanity and laying the foundations for societal, economic and cultural benefit.
Goldsmiths’ research strategy has been developed with three core strategic priorities:
At the heart of our strategy is the vibrancy and inventiveness of our academic research community.
At an institutional level, the work is led by the Pro-Warden for Research, Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange, but it is embedded in, coordinated and shaped through key structures and responsibilities, including Academic Board, Research and Enterprise Committee (REC), Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee, Human Resources and Equalities Committee, External Relations Committee and the Public Engagement Advisory Committee.
We have Academic Leads in Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange who develop that work across Goldsmiths.
Our academic departments, each with a Director of Research, construct discipline-specific research strategies, which are reported to REC and understood with regard to institutional priorities.
Annual planning rounds with academic departments and central teams provide points of operational and strategic deliberation and change.
We have themes to help group research, support fundamental insight and impact, and align our work with core societal challenges:
Achievements include:
Our Research Units were developed to frame emergent or small-scale research clusters housed within academic departments.
Our Research Centres are larger, primarily multidisciplinary, propositions sitting across academic departments.
Centres include the Centre for Feminist Research , the Centre for Queer History and the Decadence Research Centre .
Postgraduate research and postdoctoral members of the Centre for Feminist Research exposed internal concerns and established the 1752 Group that campaigns and engages in policy work regarding gender inequalities and violence in the higher education sector.
Centres provide the ground for research leadership.
Professor Knowles, a previous Director of the Centre for Urban and Community Research , was appointed as Director for the Cities and Infrastructure Programme (British Academy in 2017) and as Director for the Urban Infrastructures of Well-Being Programme (in 2019; funded by BEIS and delivered through the British Academy).
Centres are important for our international strategy, developing researcher-led collaborations with other research and non-academic partners.
Forensic Architecture has partners on the ground in Argentina, Cameroon, Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan and the USA, among many others.
Research centres are enablers of research grant awards, notably from the European Research Council and Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships.
In September 2023 Goldsmiths joined the growing number of global research organisations who have signed up to the commitments of the Coalition for Advancing Research Assessment (CoARA) , working together to progress real and lasting change in research assessment practices.
By joining CoARA, Goldsmiths has committed to actively reviewing and reforming research assessment practices in order to recognise the diverse outputs, practices and activities that maximise the quality and impact of research.
Read the CoARA Action Plan 2024-2029 (PDF) .
Goldsmiths is a signatory of the Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice.
We are committed to the collective ambition articulated in the concordat and strive to create cutting-edge research in an environmentally responsible and sustainable way.
Goldsmiths recognises that we must act to reduce and eliminate our own negative environmental impacts and emissions and work collectively to realise the transition to sustainable practices.
Letter of Commitment to Environmental Sustainability Concordat (PDF)
Full text of the Concordat

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/ref-2021:
Goldsmiths is recognised as a leading university for research with nearly four-fifths of our outputs considered “world leading” or “internationally excellent”, according to REF 2021.
The official review of research at UK universities rated 79% of research undertaken at Goldsmiths as 4* or 3* – the highest levels possible.
An analysis of REF 2021 data by Times Higher Education places Goldsmiths at 51st in the UK for the quality of our research and just outside the top 10 of London institutions.
For 4* “world leading" research we saw impressive rankings across our departments including:
In its first submission to the REF, the Institute of Management Studies came 63 rd in terms of 4* ratings, out of 108 submitting organisations.
Across the College there was an overall increase in the proportion of results considered 4*.
REF 2021 also clearly demonstrates how our research impacts society and changes people's lives.
Professor Frances Corner, Warden of Goldsmiths, University of London said: “Research is central to who we are at Goldsmiths and these results recognise the expertise and commitment of our research community.
“From changing child social work policy to reforming the commercial gambling sector – the work of our researchers is having a direct impact on the lives of people in the UK and beyond.”
The Research Excellence Framework – or REF - is a peer review process set up to assess the quality of research across UK universities.
It is undertaken every six to seven years by the four main UK research funding bodies: Research England, the Scottish Funding Council, the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales and the Department for the Economy, Northern Ireland.
The REF aims to provide accountability for public investment in research and to support benchmarking within the HE sector and beyond.
The outcomes are also used to calculate the distribution of public funding for university research.
With findings published in May 2022 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, REF 2021 assessed the research of 157 institutions and was the 8th UK research assessment process since 1986.
Find out more on the REF website .
See our case study collection to learn more about the impact of Goldsmiths research in society.
Read more case studies .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/governance:
Goldsmiths has structures that ensure the quality and impact of our research and its environment.
Reporting to the Academic Board, the Research and Enterprise Committee (REC) is a key strategic committee responsible for all aspects of research and enterprise, including research training, research ethics and integrity, and knowledge exchange/transfer activities in partnership with external organisations and businesses.
The Research Ethics Sub-Committee and Postgraduate Research Board are responsible for particular aspects of REC’s overall remit and report to it.
The ethical scrutiny of research conducted by academic staff at Goldsmiths is the responsibility of the Research Ethics Sub-Committee (RESC).
RESC scrutinises applications for ethical approval in order to ascertain that the research abides by both general and disciplinary principles and standards of research ethics.
Such principles relate to, for example, harm to human participants, independence of researchers, integrity of research, fidelity to verifiable knowledge, consent to research and use of data, and rights to privacy, confidentiality and anonymity.
Academic researchers have ethical obligations to the people, species and materials they study, to the stakeholders with whom they work, and to the environment within which the research is situated.
Such obligations are not only based in the ‘here and now’ but are also oriented to the possibility of future knowledge production by others.
All research projects – that are concerned with living (or recently deceased) beings or with data and materials derived from such beings or that might unduly affect the environment and hence change the lives of beings within that environment - require ethical approval.
Ethical approval applications related to research projects led by undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD students are managed by relevant academic departments.
Oversight is provided by RESC.
Goldsmiths is a signatory to the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and has adopted the UK Research and Integrity Office’s Code of Practice for Research as its institutional Code of Practice on Research Ethics and Integrity.
The Chair of Goldsmiths Research Ethics Sub-Committee (RESC), currently Dr Panagiotis Pentaris Panagiotis.Pentaris(@gold.ac.uk) , acts as first point of contact for anyone wanting more information on matters of research integrity and as a confidential liaison for whistle-blowers or anyone else wishing to raise concerns about research integrity.
The formal procedures for dealing with allegations related to research integrity are set out in Goldsmiths Research Misconduct Procedure (PDF) and Goldsmiths Research Misconduct Flowchart (PDF)
Our statement on open access reflects our unique and specialist nature and its research-intensive status: Goldsmiths statement on open access (PDF)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/knowledge-exchange:
Knowledge Exchange (KE) is about sharing Goldsmiths’ research and expertise with the wider world.
KE activity can take many forms, and generally can be categorised as:
On this page:
Goldsmiths’ approach to KE reflects the creative, radical and intellectually rigorous nature of our research.
As an arts, humanities and social sciences university we aim to address the challenges that face society and lay the foundations for societal, economic and cultural benefit.
From cutting-edge research collaborations and our portfolio of short courses to support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and access to our specialist facilities, Goldsmiths prides itself on two-way collaborations with partners across the Private, Public and Third sectors and our local community; who in turn inform, enhance and enrich our research.
Goldsmiths receives funding from UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) through the Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF), which is designed to support and develop a broad range of knowledge-based interactions between higher education and the wider world, which result in economic and societal benefit to the UK.
At Goldsmiths, we use our HEIF funding to support KE activity through our Research and Enterprise team, who work with academic and professional services staff across the institution.
KE activity is measured annually by HESA through the Higher Education Business and Community Interaction (HE-BCI) survey .
HE-BCI data is also used to benchmark higher education institutions via the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) .
Goldsmiths is a signatory to the Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC) , a series of high-level principles which cover the range of necessary underpinning activities for effective knowledge exchange.
Goldsmiths has a long history of creative, radical and intellectually rigorous research.
Complementing our work with private, public and third sector businesses and our public and community engagement , we engage with policymakers to ensure our expertise helps to shape and inform public policy.
We work with local policymakers in Lewisham and across Greater London, as well as national and international policymakers from governments, NGOs, charities and public sector organisations.
Our expertise spans cultural, education, health and social care, law and human rights, urban and environmental policy.
See some of our case studies .
Goldsmiths is a member of the Universities Policy Exchange Network ( UPEN ).
If you have any queries about our policy work or want to know how you can get involved, please email S.Tasheva(@gold.ac.uk) .
Goldsmiths works with a number of local partners to deliver growth and regeneration in Lewisham, south east London and the UK.
We have successfully delivered the ERDF (European Regional Development Fund) funded Dek Business Growth Programme and ESF (European Union Social Fund) funded Digital Grid Partnership; both of which used staff and student expertise to support over 300 small and medium-sized enterprises to develop and grow.
Goldsmiths is also delivering creative business support as part of SHAPESLewisham and Stride London, and is lead partner on the ESF funded Inspire Lewisham project.
We work with a number of local authorities and have collaborated with key organisations across London including further and higher education institutions, cultural organisations and businesses.
Making a difference through research and knowledge exchange is one of the four strategic priorities in Goldsmiths’ institutional strategy.
Relevant themes within our institutional strategy include strengthening our international relationships and profile (4.4, 4.6 & 4.7), civic engagement for mutual benefit and active partnership with our community (5.1 - 5.6).
Our Public Engagement Strategy includes a focus on developing a sector leading, sustainable culture of public engagement.
As outlined in its HEIF statement 2021-25, Goldsmiths has three specific Knowledge Exchange objectives developed to further enhance Goldsmiths’ existing strengths in KE, enabling Goldsmiths to make a difference locally and globally.
These are:
Support for KE is provided by the Research and Enterprise Office.
Goldsmiths staff can contact the team for support with:
Student involvement in KE is key to Goldsmiths’ approach.
We have worked with students to deliver contract research and consultancy projects, to deliver regeneration projects including the Dek business growth programme, and by offering placements and internships to a range of private, public and third sector organisations.
Goldsmiths students should contact the Careers Service for information on student enterprise, entrepreneurship and employability .
Knowledge Exchange activity is overseen by Research and Enterprise Committee and led by:
Contact us at enterprise (@gold.ac.uk) and your email will be directed to the best person to help.
Goldsmiths' Research and Enterprise Office (REO) receives an enquiry Via website, email, phone call, social media, or internal redirect.
Respond within 7 working days Request further information, organise a follow-up meeting or pass the opportunity on.
If Goldsmiths can’t help, our repository of organisations will help you find somewhere else to progress your enquiry.
Work with academic departments to identify who could deliver the project 1-3 weeks depending on the size and scale of the project.
All parties work together to set project parameters and timescales Deliverables, start and end dates, reporting dates, etc.
REO team supports project setup Letters of agreement (including IP arrangements), financial arrangements, etc.
REO team supports the delivery of the project Administration, points of contact, etc.
Project wrap-up Confirming deliverables and project outputs, opportunities for feedback and case studies.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/public-engagement:
We are committed to making our research, scholarship and practice come to life in the world for the benefit of our communities both local and global.
At Goldsmiths, our history and vibrant public culture underpin our commitment to engaging a broad range of publics in a positive, socially conscious and mutually beneficial exchange.
We collaborate with a wide range of partners, stakeholders and participants based on our research and practice.
We engage locally, nationally and internationally, with a particular focus on working with communities in our civic context of New Cross, Lewisham and southeast London
Across 2022 and into 2023 the Civic & Public Engagement team led on coordinating Goldsmiths’ contribution to Lewisham’s year as London Borough of Culture, including leading on the cultural heritage project In Living Memory .
Public Engagement at Goldsmiths not only supports innovative, interactive events, but contributes to grant writing, training and a suite of resources that strengthens our public culture.
Find out what the Public Engagement Strategy Group and the Public Engagement Group do, and read our strategy.
Want to collaborate?
Take a look at some of our recent partnerships and get in touch to discuss ideas.
Each year Goldsmiths celebrates the best work being done in Public Engagement at the College.
Each year we allocate seed funding to academics developing public projects.
Two standout Museum Lates in 2024 sparked collaboration, engaged communities, and enriched research
Supporting communities within Lewisham to tell their own stories and create lasting cultural legacies as part of Lewisham's year as London Borough of Culture 2022
What can community gardening teach us about climate change and migration?
Nearly 300 visitors to the Victoria & Albert Museum’s Digital Design Weekend participated in the interactive installation.
From 40th anniversary events to launching a public artwork to commemorate 13th August 1977.
This museum late saw over 1000 people interact with Goldsmiths' installations and the Horniman's exhibits.
Award-winning immersive murder mystery events bring forensic psychology research to life.
Goldsmiths are signatories of:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/orc:
Online Research Collections (ORC) encompasses the digital research outputs of academics and researchers hosted at Goldsmiths.
Goldsmiths Research Online (GRO) is a repository of research publications and other research outputs conducted by academics, research fellows and PhD researchers at Goldsmiths.
The repository also holds Goldsmiths' collection of doctoral theses, updated by staff at the Library.
Go to Goldsmiths Research Online (GRO)
Goldsmiths staff members and PhD students are able to login to add details of their research.
If you are not Goldsmiths staff or a current PhD student, you will still be able to see all records and full-text entries which have been made available to the general public.
See guidelines for depositing on GRO .
Some of the materials that make up the repository include:
The repository is intended to provide long-term, public, free access to these materials on the web.
Please note that not all items are available as full-text.
If you find a citation of something which is not available to view, we suggest that you ask at your own university or local library about other means to access the article or book.
Goldsmiths Research Online is managed by the Goldsmiths Library, in collaboration with the Research Office, ULCC and IT Services.
Built on open access principles using open source technical standards, it functions alongside traditional publishing, copyright and IP arrangements.
gro (@gold.ac.uk) / +44 (0)20 7919 7166
Goldsmiths Journals Online (GOJO) hosts Open Access journals and conference proceedings for research groups and academic communities at Goldsmiths.
Each journal listed runs on the Open Access software Open Journals System (OJS).
Go to Goldsmiths Journals Online (GOJO)
For general enquiries or if you are a Goldsmiths academic interested in hosting an Open Access journal, please contact Online Research Collections using the email address below.
If you are looking for the e-journals resources managed by the Goldsmiths Library see our E-Resources list .
journals (@gold.ac.uk) / +44 (0)20 7919 7166

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/case-studies:
Goldsmiths is home to a vibrant and inventive research community which continues to respond to the urgent challenges of our times.
From exploring the Brexit experience of British people living in Europe, to the extent which football fans are exposed to gambling and how affluent families can manipulate social services work, this page shares a selection of research projects which have had a significant impact on the world around us over recent years.
The case studies below give an overview of the research and set out how the research is making a difference on policy, place and people's lives.
Understanding what Brexit means for British citizens living in the EU.
Multilingual digital storytelling boosts language learning and digital skills.
Transforming understanding of electronic music history through the Daphne Oram archive.
Awarded annually to the most adventurous and innovative novel published in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Analysis of green financial systems informs climate change policy.
Recognition that human rights exist and need protecting online.
Artwork gives voice to the emotional intensity of care during cancer.
Interrogating state claims after police violence.
Self-build cameras for engagement with local wildlife and digital DIY.
Improving public understanding of anti-expert politics.
Building bridges by challenging sectarian narratives of WWI in Northern Ireland.
Overcoming tensions between artistic integrity and commercialism in the digital era.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/pg/research:
We are a leading research-intensive university, we're in the UK's top 10 universities our research intensity ( The Complete University Guide League Tables 2022 ), and nearly four-fifths of our research outputs were considered “world leading” or “internationally excellent” in the last Research Excellence Framework (2021).
Most of our academic departments offer research opportunities - you can either get in touch with a member of staff directly to discuss your options, or alternatively browse our postgraduate listing for details of our MPhil/PhD degrees.
Our research centres and units aim to encourage research collaboration by bringing together academics and students from different departments and disciplines.
They organise seminar programmes and conferences, house research projects, and act as a base for research students.
The Enterprise Office at Goldsmiths works with staff and students to connect people and organisations outside the University with the research and know-how to address their unique challenges.
These connections enhance the work of businesses, government, charities, non-governmental organisations and the community, as well as our own researchers.
‌Our Graduate School has been created in response to increasing numbers of postgraduate students, changing needs for research training, and Goldsmiths’ growing research profile.
It provides a strong and supportive infrastructure for postgraduates at Goldsmiths by offering facilities and training, and encouraging intellectual and social contact across disciplines.
Information about postgraduate training and funding, academic and social events, and support is also available.
An introduction to the Graduate School at Goldsmiths and what it can offer postgraduate students
If your application for research study is accepted, you will be sent full enrolment instructions.
Your department will arrange an induction programme for you, including an introduction to departmental, library and computer facilities; where appropriate, you will also be introduced to laboratory and technical support, and to language-learning resources.
Each September, there is a week-long university-wide induction programme for first year postgraduate research students in all academic disciplines; this introduces you to some of the essentials of research and gives you the opportunity to ask general questions.
Research students usually follow a programme of training tailored to their needs, which may include dedicated training programmes.
Your supervisor helps you in the initial planning of your research , offering advice and suggestions as the project evolves, and maintaining regular contact through individual tutorials.
Having discussed your needs with your supervisor, in the first year you undertake training to develop your research skills and techniques.
You're responsible for maintaining progress according to your agreed plan of study, as outlined on your registration form, and at the end of the year you produce a formal progress report.
Research can be an isolating process, so we give you the opportunity to participate in departmental research seminars and programmes of taught options, which enable you to meet other research students.
You begin by registering as an MPhil student, while you undertake research training, develop your research skills, and complete the initial stages of your PhD.
You can apply to upgrade to PhD registration when you have satisfactorily completed an agreed part of the research and training programme: usually after 18 months if you are studying full-time, or 24 months if you are studying part-time.
You should aim to complete and submit your PhD thesis within an agreed period, usually three to four years for full-time students or seven to eight years for part-time students.
If you decide not to upgrade to PhD registration, you can submit your thesis for an MPhil after two years if you are studying fulltime, or after three years if part-time.
You can change your registration from full- to part-time or vice versa with the agreement of your supervisor.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/researchstaff:
Researchers are vital to the future of Goldsmiths.
We aim to provide excellent career development support for all our research staff, at all stages of their career.
Researcher career development at Goldsmiths is facilitated by the Research and Knowledge Exchange Department in collaboration with academic departments and professional support services, including People and Organisational Development, the Graduate School, Teaching and Learning Information Centre, and the Library.
An institution-wide, interdisciplinary researcher development programme of activities and resources is complemented by discipline-responsive training opportunities, mentorship, and local research environment initiatives overseen by academic schools/departments.
Goldsmiths is committed to supporting the career development of researchers and providing a supportive, equitable, and intellectually stimulating research environment for all our research community.
In realising our commitment to actively improve research culture both locally and sector-wide, Goldsmiths is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, 2019 and an awardee of the HR Excellence in Research Award since 2012.
Researcher development opportunities at Goldsmiths are structured to align with the Researcher Development Framework (RDF) to support researchers to identify learning needs and evidence their development activities.
The RDF is a profession-specific development tool, which charts potential competencies and progression pathways for those pursuing careers in research.
Goldsmiths’ institutional membership provides all staff with access to Vitae’s training events, resources and the Researcher Development Framework.
Staff can use the RDF to identify strengths and gaps in their career development, prioritise development needs and monitor progress.
Researcher development is supported by a network of specialist contributors facilitating the development of research professional competencies, transferable skills, career development/progression, discipline-specific knowledge and recognition, and key policies and resources.
Key contributions to researcher development at Goldsmiths include:
Goldsmiths staff can read more about Research and Knowledge Exchange on Goldmine.
Goldsmiths staff can read more about Organisational Development & Wellbeing on Goldmine.
Read more about The Graduate School and how it can support your research.
Visit the Library to find out more about the support available.
The HR Excellence in Research Award scheme is structured on the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers , which aim to improve working conditions for researchers and the culture and environments that support the creation of innovative research.
The scheme is administered in the UK by Vitae and overseen in Goldsmiths by the departments of Research and Knowledge Exchange and People and Organisational Development.
Goldsmiths was first awarded the HREiRA in 2012.
Since receiving the accreditation, Goldsmiths has successfully retained the award at each bi-annual industry evaluation of institutional progress.
Following the most recent renewal in 2023, Goldsmiths is currently progressing activities detailed in the action plan for the 2023 – 2026 activity period.
Goldsmiths is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, 2019 (commonly known as the Researcher Development Concordat), an agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in UK higher education.
Annual Report for the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Research (PDF)
For more information or help contact researchtraining (@gold.ac.uk)
Goldsmiths is signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (2019) and since 2012 we have successfully retained the HR Excellence in Research Award (HREiRA).
All the links below need staff login required

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/research-support:
Our team provides a collaborative, pro-active service to support Goldsmiths' researchers.
We implement the strategies and policies of the university's Research and Enterprise Committee.
Our function is to support the university's research staff in conducting innovative research in accordance with national regulatory frameworks and funding bodies, including:
Research Grants Administration: The team has experience supporting grants from UK, European and non-European funders, and assists researchers with applications from initial outline and budgeting to submission.
Research Excellence Framework: The team co-ordinate the university's submission to national research benchmarking exercises such as the REF.
Promoting Goldsmiths research to funding bodies:  When funding bodies run consultation exercises, the team co-ordinate the university's response.
Researcher Career Development: Researchers are vital to the future of a research-intensive university like Goldsmiths.
In line with our commitments to the Researcher Development Concordat and the HR Excellence in Research Award, we support training and career development activity for research staff at all levels.
Open Access: Open access recognises the public benefits of free access to publicly-funded research.
The team, in collaboration with colleagues in the Library, leads on the implementation and development of open access systems that accord with funders' requirements.
Goldsmiths Research Online , GRO, is our publicly accessible repository.
Research Ethics and Integrity: The Research team co-ordinates the work of the university Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee and its broad remit (including assessment of ethical protocols for research projects and management of research staff) with other academic and professional services departments.
Research and Knowledge Exchange Department Goldsmiths, University of London Batavia Road, New Cross
SE14 6BJ
David Oswell – Pro-Warden for Research, Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange Vivienne Hurley – Director of Research, Innovation and Knowledge Exchange Desislava Stoitchkova - Deputy Director of Research and Enterprise
res-services (@gold.ac.uk)
school-rke-support (@gold.ac.uk)
fir01rf (@gold.ac.uk)
researchtraining (@gold.ac.uk)
REF (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/anthropology/research:
Current staff and postgraduate research range across the world and across many sub-fields of social anthropology.
Explore our staff research, information about research students, research papers, visiting research fellows and more using the menu options below.
Explore our current staff research projects within the Department of Anthropology
Details of the departments current MPhil/PhD students and their research
Read Goldsmiths Anthropology Research Papers which is a snapshot of work within the department.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/art/research:
We have a dynamic, internationally respected research culture committed to making, curating and critically evaluating contemporary art.
Research carried out by staff in the department is both individual and collective, often produced in collaboration with galleries and museums, working in London’s cosmopolitan contemporary art world as well as exhibiting internationally.
See our individual and collaborative staff research projects .
Our work is widely exhibited, performed, and screened—in national and international solo and group shows, at the Barbican, Tate Modern, Somerset House, The Serpentine, Gasworks, and major biennials and festivals such as Documenta, Venice Biennial, and the BFI London Film Festival.
We have curated shows at The Drawing Room; British Art Show; Dunkirk Art & Industry Triennial; and elsewhere.
Staff, students, and alumni are regularly shortlisted for or have won The Turner Prize; and other significant prizes, such as the Frieze Artist Award, The Film London Jarman Award and Stanley Picker Arts Fellowship.
Numerous staff members have received major grants and funding from the British Academy, Horizon Europe, Arts Council England, Creative Scotland, Canada Council for the Arts, Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation, and their works are represented in important collections, such as Arts Council Collection; British Council; Tate; MoMA; the Beinecke Library at Yale; Migros Collection; the Guggenheim; Frac des Pays De La Loire, FR; Aïshti Foundation, Beirut, LB.
Our research and creative work have been published by prestigious academic presses as well as highly regarded independent publishers and art magazines, such as Art Monthly, Stanford University Press, Bookworks; frieze; Bloomsbury, Sternberg Press, Hayward Publishing, Mousse Publishing, Art Review, Ma Bibliotheque, The White Review, Walter Koenig/Serpentine Gallery.
Many staff members have an interest in experimental education and have worked with TOMA (The Other MA), Rupert’s Alternative Education Programme, and Open School East, Margate.
The department has its own internationally renowned gallery, Goldmiths CCA , and maintains strong links with local galleries (South London Gallery, Matt’s Gallery), and libraries such as the Women’s Art Library (for example, in the form of The Women of Colour Index Reading Group ).
You can find out more about individual department members’ practices, exhibitions, publications, teaching and research interests on their staff profiles .
Research at Goldsmiths is dynamically supported by a Director of Research, two Deputy Directors of Research, a Research Committee, a Research and Knowledge Exchange Team, and Impact Officer, and exists within a larger ecosystem of research activity across College.
The Art Department benefits from 10 Art Practice Areas (Constructed Textiles, Media Research, Metal, Fine Art Print, Photography, Print and Dye, Woodwork, Casting, Stitch and Fabric, 3D Printing) as a site for staff and student research.
We also have a Neurodiversity Working Group, which forms part of our commitment to improving the learning and research environment for all.
We are an ambitious department and always welcome rigorous and inventive applications for doctoral and postdoctoral research and senior research collaborations through UKRI, the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Horizon Europe, and other funding bodies.
Our MPhil/PhD Art is a 3-4 year (full-time) or 6-8 year (part-time) research project, the pursuit of which may involve your already-established practice or may require the development of new modes of practice specific to the project.
Read about our MPhil/PhD Art .
See the work of our current MPhil and PhD students and our past research students .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/computing/research:
We have a unique vision of computing research as an interdisciplinary set of practices, methods and techniques.
We remain one of the UK’s leading institutions for creative code, attracting the finest academics in the field, whilst producing world-renowned research in interaction, creativity and machine learning.​ Many of our staff have creative practices outside of, but frequently related to computing: they are musicians, artists, social activists, and writers.
The work we do is significant on the world stage, published in the best journals and presented at the best conferences.
We have branched out to include more core computer science work and interactions with other disciplines.
We now have substantial work with medicine, psychology, finance, physics, and mathematics.
We are devoted to integrating ideas across different disciplines and world views.
Our research is divided into four very broad areas: Algorithmics, Quantum Informatics & Financial Technology; Data Science; Human/Computer Interaction; Computation and Creativity.
Within each of these areas sit subsections, some of which operate as integrated research groups: hosting seminars and events, publishing together and working on grants together.
The Department’s impact on the world takes many forms.
Our art and music helps us provide public engagement with science; our position in London helps us work with industries and NGOs; our subject interests help us support medical practice and training.
You can find a complete list of our research projects .
Wide-ranging investigations on different mathematical and theoretical aspects of information processing.
At the forefront of emerging technologies, statistical analysis and computational techniques.
Interdisciplinary and humanistic investigations into the nature of AI and technology in the Arts.
Bodily interaction and virtual reality
Our staff have a wide range of research interests.
We welcome applicants for higher degrees by research in any of our areas of expertise and interest.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/design/research:
Research at Goldsmiths Department of Design is internationally renowned for its inventive, experimental and critical engagement with social and cultural life and the role of designers and design therein.
We have enjoyed a long history of redefining the discipline of design and how design studies combine with practice-led research-through-design.
Our staff members have and continue to play foundational and agenda setting roles in the development of design research, demarcating new fields of design practice and theory, pursuing methodological innovation as well as interdisciplinary engagements across the arts, humanities, sciences and social sciences.
In so doing, our staff have gained international recognition for being pioneers in fields such as design education and pedagogy, metadesign, human-computer interaction design, speculative and critical design, sustainability and the environment as well as the intersection between design, science and technology studies and social theory.
The research practices in the department are variously marked by their ongoing commitment to forms of social and political engagement and the radical rethinking of design as a key mediator in contemporary issues.
The Department of Design is embedded in the unique intellectual milieu of Goldsmiths, which provides an inspiring and vibrant context for design research as well as opportunities to pursue interdisciplinary research that is responsive to pressing contemporary challenges, whether local, national, international or global.
The department actively contributes to the College’s excellence in research, supporting an overall increase in 4* ‘world-leading’ research for Art, Design and Visual Cultures in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
To find out more about our departments' research interests and activities, please see our staff's individual pages.
Research in the department is organised around a number of research units and centres:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/educational-studies/research:
Research activity within the Department of Educational Studies is concerned with how young people’s learning from early childhood onwards can be supported in the home and the community as well as in the school setting.
Within this context a social justice perspective on the formation of identities and the politics of social processes is taken with a rigorous and critical examination of the processes of education and schooling, often with a view to hearing youth voice.
We have a particular focus on how learning can enhance the lives of children, young people and adults from multilingual and multicultural communities in disadvantaged urban contexts.
Expressing our commitment to social justice, core research themes include interrogations of gender, race, class and the politics of teaching and learning.
Research is conducted into learning in different subject domains including arts practices and their potential for developing and promoting social and cultural understanding.
The Department embraces a wide range of research approaches including ethnography, case study and other quantitative and qualitative methods.
Our research involves working in partnership with different communities, teachers, schools and policymakers as well as with educators from galleries, museums and faith groups, to inform teaching, learning and educational policy and practice.
Over 60% of the Department’s research activity was judged internationally excellent or world-leading in the last REF.
Much of the work carried out within the Department is coordinated through three research centres, each with its own aims, publications and grant funding from research councils and charities.
Visiting speakers, research fellows, as well as over 50 PhD and postdoctoral students contribute to a lively programme of research seminars.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/ecw/research:
Our academic staff comprises leading scholars and creative writers.
Our scholars pursue original research in a wide range of literary specialisms, from the reception of classical literature to twenty-first-century literature in English, French, German, Spanish and Italian.
Others of our researchers work innovatively in linguistics, translation studies, and critical theory, and in such interdisciplinary areas as literature and philosophy, literature and photography, literature and visual arts, and post-colonial studies.
Beyond this original research into the literature, cultures and languages of the past and present, a substantial number of our academic staff produce the literature of the future, as creative writers, in a Department that is home to the Goldsmiths Prize.
This scholarly and creative work, published by leading international presses and journals, puts the Department at the cutting edge of new thinking, and in the top 100 English Departments in the world (QS rankings 2021).
Over 70 MPhil/PhD research students benefit directly from this intellectual and creative culture, as well as from proximity to the British Library and the University of London Library, and from other research resources, such as the University of London's School of Advanced Studies and the specialised seminars and training opportunities provided there, to which our academic staff also contribute.
Creative Writing at Goldsmiths includes novelists, memoirists, essayists, poets and short-story writers; our staff has diverse research interests, but our common aim is explore the possibilities of form and voice in creative practice.
Linguistics at Goldsmiths is a vibrant research community engaged in exploring the relationship of language, society and culture, and, at the same time, offering a solid theoretical understanding of how language works.
Nineteenth-Century Literature reflects and contributes to a period of profound cultural change.
Philosophy and critical thought at Goldsmiths is a prestigious and outward-looking research community that intervenes in questions of direct cultural and ethico-political urgency.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/history/research:
History at Goldsmiths pushes the boundaries of what ‘history’ means.
We do that through the novel subjects we focus on, our innovative approaches, the sources we use, and ways in which we engage with the public.
We are diverse in our geographical coverage and the composition of our staff.
We actively seek to make history more accessible to all potential students, along with scholars and academics from previously marginalised constituencies, both within and outside the UK.
History at Goldsmiths is internationally leading.
Our staff continue to win major international prizes and lead research projects which have global scope and significance.
Much of our work is interdisciplinary and we research topics from medieval to modern.
Our geographic scope covers Asia, Africa, Europe and the Americas.
We have attracted special funding for our research, from bodies including the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the British Academy, the Wellcome Trust and the Panacea Society.
Staff have also held prestigious international fellowships including through the Austrian Academy, at Harvard, Uppsala, Wissenschaftskolleg Berlin, Jena and Griefswald, and the Alexander von Humboldt fellowship.
We have particular strengths in the following research clusters:
We lead research-based initiatives which are the first of their kind: the Centre for Queer History (with its own MA), an MA in Black British History , the Centre for the Study of the Balkans , and the Centre of the Body .
We edit the British Journal for Military History , convene a University of London Seminar Southern Africa: History, Society and Culture and co-convene six seminars at the Institute of Historical Research:
Our major publications include books on:
Our publications can be found on Goldsmiths Research Online .
History at Goldsmiths is home to a growing and lively community of postgraduate research students .
Find out more about our staff research interests on their individual pages .
Our strategy is based on the Goldsmiths Strategic Plan for 2018-2023 and focuses on how our actions and plans relate to the research aspects of that strategy, within the overarching Goldsmith objective to ‘Support research excellence that addresses local, national and global challenges.’
We pursue intellectual curiosity through convening seminars on a wide range of subjects so that we are actively involved with cutting-edge research.
Current work includes convening six seminars at the Institute of Historical Research.
We encourage the highest standards of research and practice: through publishing work with prestigious series and publishers, editing journals, and securing prizes, for example, by editing the British Journal for Military History and recently winning prizes such as the Wolfson History Prize .
We are building on our diverse strengths through interdisciplinary imagination through our own research and external collaborations, in particular the Centre for the Study of the Balkans , the Centre of the Body and the Centre for Queer History .
We develop synergies between teaching and research through regularly updating the modules we offer to students and creating new modules.
Recent new modules include, for example, Black and British, Capitalism and Homosexuality, Ireland’s First World War, and 1850: The Great Exhibition.
We cultivate a unique and creative approach, daring to think differently, challenging norms and embracing new ideas with energy and reflection by creating, for example, research-led MAs in the Queer History and in Black British History , which are the first of their kind.
Our work on emotional history has set standards in the field.
We encourage new entrants to academia, bringing in new ideas, through our membership of the CHASE Doctoral Training Partnership, in which we are active participants with a record of success in securing awards.
We encourage individuality and nurture talent through generous research leave known as ‘Dedicated Research Leave’ (DRT) and financial support for research expenses for all staff on Teaching and Research contracts.
We are working to increase our external research funding and time is provided for grant applications through allowances which can be made in our workload allocations and through DRT [subject to the approval of DRT policy by Board].
The seminars we convene provide space for freedom of thought and expression while nurturing an environment of openness and tolerance.
We have enabled a wide range of people to benefit from our learning opportunities by opening up previously marginalised areas of History through our Centre for Queer History and our MA in Black British History .
We are working with young scholars in southern Africa through a writers’ workshop on publishing in academic journals.
We led the British Journal for Military History in being unusual in its field with women being a majority of its Editorial Advisory Board members.
We provide additional Dedicated Research Time [subject to the approval of DRT policy by Board] for staff returning for maternity leave, and have worked closely with the local community on historical subjects such as the 1977 Battle of Lewisham and beyond through, for example, the Windrush: Arrival 1948 exhibition.
We recruit students from a very diverse range of backgrounds, and the diversity of our staff has increased significantly.
We are socially aware and socially engaged with communities, carrying out public engagement work around the world to ensure that our research has a positive impact and helps to change lives.
We are actively involved in work with schools, for example through Hemel at War and Streatham at War , and a project on Francophones in London during the First World War In South Africa, we have developed sustained relationships with NGOs, faith-based organisations and other members of civil society involved in the management of death in South Africa.
Our work has aided in the professional development of African staff, and shaped training and facilitation on responses to death, grief and loss.
In Northern Ireland, our work on ‘Military History from the Street’ has challenged received popular and sectarian narratives of the First World War, with its methodology being adopted by schools and community groups.
During the 2014-18 First World War Centenary, our staff helped to shape the Department for Education’s The Great War Debate series for A Level students and its Centenary Battlefield Tours programme.
We have enhanced the visibility of queer history locally and among wider audiences through the annual Goldsmiths Queer History Fair (the largest in the UK), our collaboration with the Bishopsgate Institute to set up the Goldsmiths Archive for Queer Life Stories and other public-facing work aligned with the Centre for Queer History.
This has all strengthened both local and transnational networks among public-facing organisations and initiatives that engage with queer history to promote the acceptance of sexual and gender diversity.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/icce/research:
Leading research related to creative, cultural and social enterprise, entrepreneurial thinking/ strategies, cultural policy and tourism, and consumption.
To become the most innovative research institute for creative/cultural policy, management and entrepreneurial thinking worldwide with a reputation for research excellence over the next three years.
To attract the best PhD students and to collaborate internationally with the leading researchers in the field.
To secure external grant and consultancy income from the most prestigious sources in the UK and Worldwide, and to have a significant impact on policy formation worldwide.
To enhance its practices of linking research to learning and teaching.
ICCE is Goldsmiths' response to the growing significance of the creative industries and cultural sector in the UK’s economy, and the wider world.
Figures have shown that the creative industries account for 9% of the UK’s GDP and a rising part of its export trade and total employment.
Countries that have industrialised in the late 20 th century and early 21 st century are aware of the need to move beyond a manufacturing base and have increasingly turned to the creative and cultural sectors to support further and sustained development.
It is also a response to the growth in social innovation and enterprise worldwide.
The Covid-19 pandemic of 2020 has produced a very difficult situation for the cultural and creative sectors and ICCE staff are currently committed to the investigation of potential reconstructive strategies.
ICCE has considerable international experience and is interested in the policy, business, management and entrepreneurial knowledge, skills and competences associated with the creative, social and cultural sectors that can be applied and exchanged in different national contexts.
ICCE also has an ability to address these issues by excellent research with interdisciplinary approaches.
This strategy comprises a modified version of the strategy that was adopted until 2018, but one that also is strongly informed by the REF Environment Statement for ICCE developed in 2019-2020.
Goldsmiths’ reputation as a leading provider of creative education, and its longstanding engagement with cultural practice and analysis, make it the ideal home for ICCE.
Researchers in ICCE are able to identify with the four broad and innovative research themes identified by Goldsmiths and there is considerable cross-departmental collaboration, but perhaps the central theme that applies to all members of ICCE is Invention, Creativity and Experience.
This central theme underlies the fact many members of ICCE are engaged in practice-based research, a field that yet to have a widely shared definition despite its presence in the creative sector of academia for many decades.
The lack of a widely shared definition is not necessarily problematic as this could be said to be a characteristic of a dynamic and emerging field.
Simply put, practice-based research comprises an original investigation designed to uncover new knowledge involving practice and the outcomes of practice.
Outcomes may take the form of creative outputs in tangible and intangible arts that demonstrate the applications and uses of new knowledge, but can also be applied in the field of consultancy involving practice-based research to shape and formulate the direction of creative and cultural policy.
Different institutions will evolve their own definitions and it is a key research strategy of ICCE to develop its own meanings based on its experience of practice-based research.
Goldsmiths is in London, a multicultural city that is not only home to one of the world’s largest creative and cultural sectors, but is also the setting of one of the largest concentrations of top-level universities in the world.
Engagement with the creative industries and the not-for-profit cultural sector has long existed across many of Goldsmiths’ academic departments and research centres.
What makes ICCE distinctive is its inter-disciplinary character and its engagement that goes beyond the confines of traditional subjects taught in an academic environment.
Artistic creativity in all its various forms increasingly blurs the old boundaries of subject disciplines such as: music, drama, dance, fine art, film design, communications, media, sociology, economics, anthropology and technology.
ICCE serves as an area for experimentation, where all of these disciplines can come together to learn from each other and to develop new creative alliances, practice and theoretical outlooks.
ICCE also engages directly with external partners in creative, cultural and social innovation, and collaborative research projects with other specialist higher education institutions located in many different countries.
Some of our partners are actively involved in curriculum development or in providing training opportunities, whilst others act in an advisory capacity.
Through their direct engagement, all of them ensure that ICCE’s programmes and other activities address the priorities and needs of the growing creative and cultural sector itself.
It was envisaged that these many categories would eventually be subsumed by broader and interactive fields with strong regional focuses such as ‘regeneration in Brazil’ or ‘consumption, Asia’.
These cross cutting approaches to groupings provides an overall environment and emphasis on cross disciplinary research.
As would be expected given the age of ICCE these groupings are nascent but are already coalescing around the following thematic areas with many in more than one, as well as synergies in regional zones, which are also indicated:
There is no obvious panel in terms of REF, but in 2019 Goldsmiths decided to return ICCE to REF in partnership with Media and Communications, and the Research Environment Statement was written with this partnership in mind.
However, ICCE remains a considerable resource for Goldsmiths as it has all relevant indicators of esteem in terms of: grants from research councils; consultancies with international organisations; papers published in refereed journals; evidence of international co-authorship; PhD completions; impacts beyond academia and influence on policy formation.
ICCE will therefore be working on supporting individual staff links to departments that map on more closely to disciplinary Unit of Assessments.
Staff should carefully consider the impact of their research outside of academia in the development of proposals and methodology.
ICCE was created as an interdisciplinary unit at its outset, but it is worth considering what this actually means with reference to the disciplinary backgrounds of its constituent members.
Broadly speaking it has a mix of trained scholars representing disciplines such as sociology, cultural studies, body studies, international relations, economics, anthropology, management and entrepreneurship, as well as cultural policy and cultural diplomacy, working alongside specialists in drama and theatre, film, arts management, fine art, fashion, tourism and museology.
This reflects the realities of the creative, social and cultural sectors that play an increasingly important part of the economy of the UK and of a growing host of countries internationally - the combination is not only realistic but a necessary way of engaging with the development of this growing sector of the modern economy.
No one discipline has the range of research skills, practice-based knowledge and theoretical frameworks to accomplish this.
From its outset ICCE has been an interdisciplinary unit, but has always maintained a strong focus on certain key areas in which its teaching and research staff have tended to form groupings with many members spanning more than one such grouping.
The key areas of collaborative research focus may be summed up as follows: cultural entrepreneurship and the pedagogy of entrepreneurship, cultural policy, cultural diplomacy, cultural tourism, social enterprise, museology, fashion, luxury and consumerism, arts management.
In 2019 the following research clusters were identified in the Research Environment Statement: Cultural Policy and Tourism, Consumption Studies, Social and Cultural Enterprise.
A modification of these units is discussed below.
ICCE is committed to developing research capacity by improving the capacities of staff already involved in research and by developing a new generation of researchers.
Support of postgraduate and postdoctoral activities will be sought by seeking funding for PhDs, post docs and early career researchers.
ICCE is committed to supporting staff to develop their research potential through supporting workload management, encouraging mentoring, supporting skills training, access to relevant events and development of links and collaboration with other departments at Goldsmiths and beyond the College.
PhD supervision support is another important area of staff development.
All members of ICCE benefit from engagement with PhD supervisor training as the growth of the department’s PhD numbers underpins its REF potential and profile.
In addition to the above, the increased visibility and accessibility of research and consultancy activities and outputs, through digital and more traditional means, is a pressing area for ICCE’ staff.
Staff are encouraged to deposit their outputs into the institutional repository Goldsmiths Research Online - in some cases this might be a requirement of Goldsmiths Open Access policy.
Participation in conferences helps to profile ICCE and Goldsmiths in key international arenas, but it also helps to keep staff up to date and current.
It also provides them with an opportunity to have papers scrutinised and commented on before they consider submitting them to journals.
Training and assistance for the consultancy and practice based members of the department will help them share their valuable insights and fields of knowledge through publications in refereed journals.
This is important as few universities have managed to capitalise fully on this important area of research and it is possible that achieving this objective ICCE could serve as a model for other practice based departments possibly through higher educational consultancy.
Through consultancy and the provision of training ICCE has managed to develop an external income from diverse external bodies, we have an active strategy in terms of the research funding sources.
To be fair, members have already engaged with national and international funding sources such as the European Commission, Erasmus+ and RCUK and been successful in these bids, and there are bids under preparation for funding programmes such as Newton and RCUK.
Members of ICCE have also been active attenders of briefing sessions on the funding councils and their programmes at Goldsmiths, but for ICCE to fulfil its mission as a fully-fledged department with a high quality research profile, this area of activity needs to be deepened and widened.
However, while ICCE as most departments lacks dedicated administrators for its external funding activities it would seem prudent for researchers in ICCE to remain as members rather than leaders or convenors of European Commission based activities as these funding schemes are resource intensive.
At the time of writing it also remains unclear how much access the UK will have to those kinds of funding, though it is worth noting that Switzerland and Canada are able to partner EU universities in various ways.
ICCE should also look more closely at the less resource intensive calls by bodies such as the AHRC and EPSRC as these provide areas for small but fast developments in research that could be of major benefit for ICCE and Goldsmiths.
Also, members of ICCE have been or are currently involved as policy advisors and referees for bodies such as the AHRC, ESRC and JSPS, and maybe Goldsmiths could find a way of polling this knowledge in order to enhance its bidding activities in general.
There is no doubt that the research areas of ICCE and its teaching programmes are closely interlinked, but this may not be so evident to external evaluators.
ICCE needs to adopt a series of practices that make this link clear and some of the following steps might be considered:
ICCE is committed to eliminating discrimination, promoting equality of opportunity and good relations between staff and encouraging its diversity.
ICCE is adopting the Athena SWAN principles as central to research as part of the overall ICCE strategy.
ICCE will monitor the implementation and effectiveness of its research strategy by determining the gap between current and future levels of: good quality PhD applications; co-authored international publications; collaborations with other departments at Goldsmiths and beyond; impact achieved beyond academia, especially in policy formation, through research, consultancy and public engagement activities; and important conference presentations by staff members.
This research strategy builds on a trawl of the research interests ICCE members was conducted in 2015 to draw up a research strategy up until 2018 research.
The subject fields were often informed by activities in teaching, knowledge exchange and consultancy and were covered by members of ICCE, usually with many members involved in two or more areas were identified as follows: arts management, consumption, creative and cultural entrepreneurship, creative industries, media theory, body studies, cultural diplomacy, cultural economy, cities and urban regeneration, cultural policy, cultural tourism, luxury brands, intellectual property rights, pedagogy, social and cultural theory, social enterprise, technology and data driven social innovation and new business models
It was envisaged that the plurality of categories would eventually be subsumed by broader and interactive fields with strong regional focuses such as ‘regeneration in Brazil’ or ‘consumption in Asia’.
The categories necessitate inter-disciplinary co-operation to research problems and research groups have emerged coalescing around thematic areas and regional zones as listed here:
Creative Economy Policy : embracing cultural diplomacy, tourism, events management and regeneration;
Social and Cultural Entrepreneurship : involving arts and health, intellectual property rights;
Arts Management: involving consumption and cultural studies and museums in society along with creative cities.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/institute-management-studies/research:
The Institute of Management Studies (IMS) is a research-driven institute.
Our research informs our contribution to knowledge, societal impact, and teaching.
The IMS produces theoretically informed and interdisciplinary knowledge in the social sciences and humanities that addresses fundamental challenges faced by individuals and society.
We aim to make an impact that improves lives with our expertise in economics, management and entrepreneurship, marketing, and leadership and occupational psychology.
In the 2021 Research Excellence Framework, over 70% of the research of IMS staff was rated world leading or internationally excellent.
This page provides an overview of IMS research.
An interdisciplinary approach that seeks to understand and theorise consumption phenomena as embedded in, and co-constituted by, their socio-cultural contexts.
Algorithms increasingly play a fundamental role in determining outcomes that people in society experience.
Understanding entrepreneurs better, by using theories in psychology and sociology.
The Institute of Management Studies has a world leading group of historians of economic thought.
Members adopt a responsible business and management approach to their scholarship and seek sustainable, innovative solutions for the greater good.
Explore the research interests of our staff.
Explore the research interests of our PhD Students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/law/research:
Our research addresses major socio-political, cultural and economic questions that we face in the world today.
Legal expertise, harnessed for the public good, has never been more important across a range of fields including technology, the criminal justice system, human rights, commerce, and the creative industries.
Our research takes a strong interest in the impact of modern technological developments on human rights, the use of AI in the criminal justice system and the use of technology to unearth human rights violations.
We interact with experts from a wide range of research, policy and professional centres of excellence and think tanks, including:
Our visiting Professor in Law, Martha Spurrier, director of Liberty
Our research events have included:
Panel debates:
Our world-leading research has relevance and impact and is deeply enriched by our close collaboration with eminent legal experts who act as visiting professors, including Kirsty Brimelow QC, Martha Spurrier, and Sir Geoffrey Nice QC .
Former Justice at the UK Supreme Court, Lord Hughes, discussing how criminal law thinks of international human rights
Goldsmiths hosts the Britain in Europe (BiE) thinktank, which was founded in October 2015 by our Head of Law, Prof Dimitrios Giannoulopoulos.
Britain in Europe’s dynamic membership comprises Goldsmiths academics from Law and other disciplines, academic scholars from across the UK and Europe, barristers, solicitors, judges, politicians, members of international human rights organisations and other third sector experts from across Britain and Europe.
Britain in Europe members produce original research and influence public policy, offering a platform for evidence-based evaluations of Britain’s interactions with the EU and its institutions.
The thinktank’s strengths lie in the area of European Union law, criminal justice and human rights, and extend to key areas of European Policy research.
Britain in Europe research benefits from a wide range of dynamic external collaborations, including with Liberty, Justice, the Honourable Society of the Inner Temple,  the New Europeans, Fair Trials International, the European Criminal Bar Association, the Hellenic Criminal Bar Association and others.
BiE develops its main research activity in the UK, but also extends its research initiatives to Brussels and Strasbourg, particularly at the European Parliament, in close collaboration with civil rights organisations and British MEPs active there.
Our aims:
Find out more about the think tank - www.brineurope.com
Goldsmiths’ Professor of Law, Dimitrios Giannoulopoulos, at the launch of Britain in Europe
The ‘Knowing our Rights’ research project aims to provide analysis, and to deepen and increase understanding, of the application of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) in the UK, based on academic scholarship and engagement with the public, young people in particular.
The project is concerned to ensure that the public in the UK obtains a balanced, research-based view of rights in the European Convention, as applied in the UK through the Human Rights Act 1998.
The project also aims to raise public awareness of how the European Court of Human Rights operates, how its case law is accommodated in the UK, and the consequences for our human rights that would derive from the UK potentially withdrawing from the Convention or watering down relevant rights.
The project explores these critical issues in the context of post-Brexit withdrawal from the human rights protections contained in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, and of the ECHR protections incorporated in EU law as well as in the context of continuous uncertainty about the potential to replace the Human Rights Act with a UK Bill of Rights.
Delivery of the project involves multiple research and public engagement activities, such as: research colloquia on diverse and innovative issues, for example research addressing the body and human rights , terrorism and human rights , the refugee crisis , journalism and human rights , or the future of the Human Rights Act after Brexit ; film screenings ; book launches , debating and mooting competitions; widening participation initiatives; and human rights workshops delivered to Yr 10-11 students across London and the UK (with around 1,800 students having participated in such workshops so far).
Dimitrios Giannoulopoulos is the lead investigator in the project.
Sir Geoffrey Nice QC is the spokesperson for the project.
Find out more about the project - www.knowing-our-rights.com
Sir Geoffrey Nice QC

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/media-communications/research:
Goldsmiths’ Department of Media, Communications and Cultural Studies is one of the oldest and largest media departments in the UK.
We're ranked 12th in the world (and 2 nd in the UK) for communication and media studies (QS World Rankings by subject 2022) and second in the UK for 'world leading or internationally excellent research' (Research Excellence Framework 2021).'
The Department is also unique in its diversity of approaches to, and articulations of, the disciplinary conjunctures around media and culture.
It has equal research strengths in media and communications and in cultural studies research, in humanities and in social sciences approaches, and in theory- and practice-driven work.
Its work spans a wide range of topics and modes of enquiry – from philosophical studies of technology and human life to sociological investigations of media production and use; from issues of identity, embodiment and becoming to post-feminism, queer theory and critical race studies; from global screen studies and transnational investigations of media and culture to news’ role in contemporary democracy.
We are especially proud of our integration of critical and creative practices in audiovisual media and journalism.
We were rated number one for research intensity in the 2014 UK Research Excellence Framework audit.
Our current research centres are:
The Department’s research falls into five main strands which make up our research groupings:
Many of the projects undertaken within the Department are collaborative in nature - such as the work conducted under the umbrella of Goldsmiths Leverhulme Media Research Centre, funded with a 2006 Leverhulme grant to study the design and significance of various contemporary media spaces.
Members of the Department have also received funding from AHRC, British Academy, British Council, Carnegie Trust UK, Council for British Research in the Levant, ESRC, EPSRC, Guggenheim Foundation, Higher Education Academy, Hong Kong Research Grants Council, JISC, London Centre for Arts and Cultural Exchange, Media Trust and Open Society Foundation.
As well as working on collaborative projects, members of the Department have published many books with high-impact international presses, on a diverse range of topics: affect and emotion, artificial intelligence, bioethics, the body and experience, branding, broadcasting, democracy, film history, the future of journalism, media geographies, the mediation of power, post-feminism, postcolonial politics, sound and video cultures.
Members of the Department edit leading academic journals, including Body and Society , Culture Machine and its sister project, Photomediations Machine ), Global Media and Communication , International Journal of Cultural Studies , Subjectivity and photographies .
In the latest 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF), an expert panel judged the quality of research outputs (e.g.
publications, films, exhibitions), their impact beyond academia and the environment that supports research.
The Department of Media, Communication and Cultural Studies at Goldsmiths came 2nd in the UK for research that was assessed at either 4* or 3*, with 96% of its research judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent.
This research underpins our teaching and practice at all levels in the Department.
Overall, looking at Grade Point Averages (GPAs) and taking account of all levels across research outputs, impact and environment, the Department came 4 th in the UK for Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management.
This outstanding result reflects the world-class, dynamic and engaged research for which the Department is famous.
The Department prides itself on undertaking research that is culturally and politically aware; that shapes artistic, cultural, political and economic debates nationally and internationally; that develops media and media art practices; functions in conjunction with various media industries; and forms a meaningful engagement with the world through research that encompasses the politics, problems and prospects of our times.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/music/research:
Goldsmiths Department of Music is the largest in the UK's established university sector, with a vibrant community of postgraduates on Masters and PhD programmes.
In the 2021 Research Excellence Framework, 100% of the Department’s impact submissions were rated 4* or 3*, meaning ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’.
Our joint submission with the Department of Theatre and Performance achieved 9th place for Research Power.
Goldsmiths Research Online is our world-leading, searchable repository of publications by Goldsmiths staff.
Find out about our research activities at the links below.
Read about our research centres and units , including the Popular, Asian, Sound Practice, Afghanistan and Contemporary Music Research Units, and the Centre for Russian Music.
Read about the Music Department research strategy .
Read about the Music Department's lively and large postgraduate research community.
Find out about about the music staff 's research interests, teaching experiences and more.
We run the Music Research Series during term time in the Music Department, in which a range of international speakers, from academics to practitioners, come and discuss their work.
Lectures are free and open to all.
Read more about past and future events in the series.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/politics-and-international-relations/research:
Our research at Goldsmiths includes but extends beyond the traditional boundaries of the discipline of Politics and International Relations.
We have notable strengths in three specific areas, which form our major research clusters: Reconfiguring the International, Critical Political Economy, and Political Theory.
We also have distinct interests in culture and politics.
This means that, as well as hosting expertise in mainstream fields such as International Politics, European Politics, and British Politics, we explore topics outside the parameters of political research found elsewhere.
We have a vibrant and growing community of researchers working on post-colonial and international politics and theory - particularly in relation to Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America - non-orthodox political economy, and radical political theory.
We deploy various research methods such as empirical analysis and data collection, textual and discourse analyses, hermeneutic and philosophical enquiry, and the examination of historical and contemporary aspects of cultures and societies.
These diverse approaches bring critical and inventive insights to our research activities.
Our research profile makes us interestingly different.
In recognition of this, we have received awards from the ESRC, the AHRC, the Leverhulme Trust and the British Academy, as well as PhD funding from the ESRC and CHASE.
We also actively run various research organisations within the Department and the College, including the Centre for Postcolonial Studies and the Political Economy Research Centre .
Study our MPhil/PhD Politics

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/psychology/research:
The Department of Psychology at Goldsmiths is a thriving centre of excellence in research.
REF 2021 recognised the significant quality and impact of the Department’s research in society.
Overall, 82% of our research and 100% of our research impact was rated at 4* and 3* level, meaning quality that is world-leading or internationally excellent.
Find out how to take part in some of our ground-breaking research .
Specialising in research, supervision, consultancy, and research-led teaching on social and personality psychology.
We seek to understand how the human mind enables us to navigate our complex environment.
Investigating the development of the psychological process from infancy to adolescence.
Specialising in research, specialist teaching, and consultancy in forensic and clinical psychology.
Investigating the cognitive and neural bases of music, dance and the visual arts.
Exploring the biological, neural, and cognitive basis of musical behaviour and experience, as well as their impact on society and culture.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/stacs/research:
Social, Therapeutic, and Community Studies (STaCS) is a UK leader in the fields of professional development, widening participation, and research innovation.
STaCS draws on research synergies between three inter-related areas: Social Work, Community and Youth Work, and a range of therapeutic disciplines.
These areas draw variously on sociology, social policy, psychosocial studies, politics, community development, cultural studies, death studies, counselling and psychology.
Research and knowledge paradigms are used creatively across and between areas to provide dynamic, change-oriented research.
STaCS also has an internationally leading specialism in contemporary religion and belief in the public sphere.
This has pioneered the fast-growing area of religious literacy, emphasising the interface, not between people of different faiths, but between a secular-minded public sphere and a religiously diverse public.
Furthermore, research staff at STaCS are internationally recognised for their work and impact on anti-oppressive practice, as well as thanatology (death studies).
These facilitate collaborations with external stakeholders and host many of the expert areas found in the department.
Meet our academic staff and find out about their research interests .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/sociology/research:
The Department of Sociology has played a leading role both nationally and internationally in shifting the boundaries and scope of sociological enquiry.
Our research is oriented to developing critical and creative approaches to the most important and pressing questions of our time.
We are committed to producing high-quality research whose scope spans and connects the local to the global; addressing inequalities, marginalisations, equity and justice; and working in a pluri-disciplinary way that cuts across conventional disciplinary boundaries, inside and outside the academy.
Our research culture is collaborative, dynamic, and outward-facing.
In addition to the research activities of staff, doctoral students and postdoctoral researchers play an active role in shaping the departmental research culture not only through their own original research activities but also by initiating and organising events and reading groups, as well as contributing to research-led teaching.
The department regularly hosts Visiting Fellows who also contribute to the research culture through public lectures and seminars, guest teaching lectures and collaboration on research projects and outputs.
Our understanding of research and research outputs extends across a range of activities in addition to the production of research monographs and peer-reviewed journal articles.
These include but are not limited to research-led teaching, public engagement, contributions to policy development, research reports, journalistic articles and exhibitions, as well as bid development and grant capture.
A key feature of the Department of Sociology is its leading role in sustaining interdisciplinary research centres and innovative research units, all of which engage in experimental thought and practice on interconnecting issues of global climate change, health, gender, migration, racism, rights and social justice, and urban diversity.
Many of our MA programmes are closely linked to our centres, units and labs, offering students the opportunity to participate in seminars with a host of invited international speakers and also lead postgraduate-directed events.
A research collective committed to developing, supporting and stimulating creative methodological debate about inventive ways of doing sociology.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/theatre-performance/research:
The Department of Theatre and Performance at Goldsmiths is distinguished by a strong emphasis on the social roles, impact and influence of theatre/performance.
Our Department has a well-established reputation in practice-as-research, the sociocultural study of the theatre, and the study and practice of diverse forms of theatre and performance, from plays to Live Art and dance.
Our outstanding staff team contribute to distinctive groupings of individual and collaborative research as well as the cross-fertilisation between them.
We have a strong practice-as-research portfolio that includes work in dramaturgy, disability theatre, applied theatre, site-specific performance and performance and medicine.
We teach, research and promote African, Black British and diasporic theatres, Japanese, Australian and New Zealand theatres, as well as European.
The latter includes Irish, Romanian, German, Russian, French and Italian as well as our expertise in British Theatre, historical and contemporary.
There are four main research clusters:
Theoretically-informed practice as research is a key feature of the Department, moving beyond established theatre practice to embrace performance in medicine, dance and schools; the public services sector; and the cultural industries more generally.
The Department’s commitment to cross-generic and cross-disciplinary synergies across the breadth of its activities generates a distinctive research cluster that includes history, translation studies, African studies, English studies and sociology.
History, sociology and theory of the theatre/performance, playwriting and dramaturgy constitutes the Department’s third main research group.
This incorporates drama, productions and performance in national/regional focus; sociology of theatre/performance including cultural theory and ethnography; national and international playwriting and dramaturgy; the study of acting, directors and companies.
The potential of cross-cultural, multicultural and hybrid drama/performance and their exploration as social processes forms the fourth cluster.
Our strategy has involved enhancing and interweaving the theoretical underpinnings and empirical investigation of cross-cultural performance, exploring issues specific to multicultural Britain in the contexts of immigration and globalisation and the hybrid practices characteristic of our practice-as-research which merge live performance with video, interactive technology and the web.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/visual-cultures/research-clusters:
We understand Visual Culture to be the meeting ground between creative practices, the philosophical and the political.
The research being carried out by both staff and students involves not just the range of thematics and concerns outlined below, but also a set of dynamic methodologies that span the theoretical and the practice-based and foreground exploratory and innovative modes of submission and delivery.
In this cluster, we explore the ways in which the present is structured by a relation to the past and the future.
Our work in this cluster encompasses performance in both theory and practice and embraces a ‘broad-spectrum’ approach to issues of performance and performativity.
Our objects of study include performance art and live art, but also extend to the performativity of identities and affects across a range of cultural practices and registers.
For example, we explore performance art as a fictional, world-making activity; queer theatricality and challenges to critical seriousness; the performativity of species across the animal/human divide; performance and cultural value; post-punk performance and the popular imaginary; and the performativity of resistance to contemporary surveillance technologies.
Most of the research undertaken in this area works across a spectrum of activities including scholarship, art-making, and curatorial projects.
Staff specializing in some of the above are Alice Andrews; Simon O’Sullivan; Astrid Schmetterling; Emily Rosamond; Lynn Turner.
In this research cluster, we explore visual practices and interventions that address unavoidable questions concerning environmental crises and ecological sustainability, human and non-human geographies, ‘the animal question’ and sociologies of everyday life these themes are approached from an interdisciplinary view of the arts and sciences.
Our wide and rapidly growing field within the humanities and post-humanities has allowed us to explore and rethink accepted cartographies, technological investments in environmental ethics and awareness, the legality and politics of the lived environment, the nature/culture dialectic within art history and, fundamentally, the categories of globalisation and climate change following the Anthropocene.
Staff specialising in some of the above are Wood Roberdeau; Lynn Turner; Christina Varvia; Eyal Weizman.
We are also active participants in the Critical Ecologies research stream at Goldsmiths.
In this cluster, we chart connections and collisions between territorial claims, postcolonial translations and global circulations.
Thinking beyond local and global distinctions, our research is situated within the transgressive spaces between established practices and knowledge.
As such, we navigate between inherited bodies of postcolonial knowledge, human geography, transcultural memory, urbanisation, questions of regionality and more recent
discourses on crises of financialization, migrancy, debt, planetary resources and precarity.
Alongside the material and administrative organization of our world, our work considers the role of critical counter possibilities as they make themselves manifest in new realities.
Staff specializing in some of the above are Astrid Schmetterling; Adnan Madani; Ghalya Saadawi.
Staff specializing in some of the above are Simon O’Sullivan; Emily Rosamond; Lynn Turner; Manuel Ramos.
Our work in this cluster centres on modern and contemporary thought that bears on the practice, display and perception of art, and, more broadly, on the workings of representation and visual culture, broadly construed.
Often engaging with new developments in aesthetics, we read a wide range of western and non-western authors belonging to a number of philosophical practices or traditions including deconstruction, materialism, phenomenology, political theory, and speculative realism.
We have a specific interest in the work of Agamben, Benjamin, Deleuze, Derrida, Guattari, Haraway, Heidegger, Malabou, Meillassoux, Merleau-Ponty, Mbembe, Nancy, and Spivak.
We are affiliated to both the Centre for Philosophy and Critical Thought (CPCT) and the Research Group in Continental Philosophy (INC).
Staff specializing in some of the above are Jenny Doussan; Kodwo Eshun; Sam MacAuliffe; Simon O’Sullivan; Wood Roberdeau; Lynn Turner; Adnan Madani.
In this cluster, our work is particularly focused on relationships between radical politics and aesthetic practices.
Objects of study include subculture and the politics of the minor, strategies of fugitivity, anonymity and/or opacity, dissident subjectivities, political cinema and collective filmmaking, post-punk and popular modernism, intersections of Marxism and aesthetics, the politics of anti-art, the militant aesthetics of masking, the visualization of border zones, trajectories of black radicalism, political violence, and the politics of visibility.
Working across a range of methodologies, researchers approach the conceptualization of political change from a global perspective.
Beyond our objects of study, we are invested in interrogating the very notion of the political, and the power it wields across disparate geographical and discursive fields.
Staff specializing in some of the above are Kodwo Eshun; Manuel Ramos; Wood Roberdeau; Emily Rosamond; Janna Graham; Simon O’Sullivan; Ghalya Saadawi; Susan Schuppli; Eyal Weizman.
Speaking to and developing from the histories, politics and philosophies of feminist and queer theory, our work in this cluster engages diverse methodologies to investigate the making of sexed subjects.
Our attention to this making – or poetics – might be given focus by art or moving image works, by the ethics through which we encounter one another, or through the sexual practices, styles or genres developed by particular subcultural groups or locations.
Thus our research includes specific engagements with contemporary South Asian feminist film-making practices; the challenges posed by the scientific turn in new material feminism; the onto-epistemologies of sexual difference; the reassessment of the politics of queer visibility in a post-digital age.
Staff specializing in some of the above are Alice Andrews; Lynn Turner; Manuel Ramos.
Our work within this cluster explores the intersections between legal frames, territorial divisions, environmental conditions, technoscience and aesthetic regimes as they express themselves within spatial and political contexts.
We conduct our research using various investigative methods but in particular through on-the-ground field-work combined with the use of digital tools for data visualisation, media mapping, terrain modelling and remote sensing.
In conjunction with our longstanding activist concerns around human rights and state violence, current research also focuses on ‘radical ecologies’ and ‘data scapes’.
Most work in this cluster is carried out under the auspices of the Centre for Research Architecture which brings together practitioners of architecture and other related spatial practices who are developing multi-year practice-based research that investigates a contemporary political condition.
Staff specializing in some of the above are Eyal Weizman; Christina Varvia; Ghalya Saadawi; Susan Schuppli.
Our work in this cluster engages with the creation and manipulation of sound and image via various technologies, including cinema, television, the digital, photography and sound devices, and with the political, aesthetic and philosophical discourses associated with these practices.
We regard our explorations of these technologies and discourses as opportunities to engage with issues key to our contemporary world and, indeed, to imagine alternative media configurations.
Of particular interest to us are practices that explore social and political structures, as well as documentary and fictional modes, alongside ideas from the fields of the postcolonial, queer theory, cybernetics, film and television studios, the digital, sound theory, new media, contemporary art and philosophy.
We work with these practices and texts in an ongoing reformulation of our questions, ideas and methodologies.
Staff specializing in some of the above are Kodwo Eshun; Manuel Ramos; Emily Rosamond; Lynn Turner; Susan Schuppli.
Our work in this cluster addresses questions about the assembling and display of artistic practices, institutional and social analyses, and critical epistemology.
As such, we regard the curatorial as a place from which to investigate museum histories, past and present exhibition practices, and the dispersal of curatorial activity away from the institutions that grounded it historically and onto the open platforms of social engagements and public assembly.
Acknowledging the contemporary global proliferation of curatorial activity, our research goes beyond tracking contemporary curating activity in the form of exhibition-making.
Instead, we think the curatorial in terms of its potential to rewrite power relations and cultural values within public culture.
Graduate research within this cluster occurs mainly within our dedicated MPhil/PhD programme in Curatorial/Knowledge.
Staff specializing in some of the above are Jenny Doussan; Manuel Ramos; Janna Graham; Adnan Madani.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/case-studies/brexpats:
How has Brexit affected British People in Europe?
ESRC-funded research with some of the 1.2 million British citizens living and working in EU member states examined how Brexit impacted on the lives of this population, and informed political understanding of groups campaigning for their rights.
Dr Michaela Benson and colleagues’ work has been cited as an expert source in UK parliamentary briefings about Brexit and citizens’ rights, and used to advise the UK government about future needs and support requirements.
Their research highlighting the lack of clarity about what British in the EU should do to regularise their status was cited as evidence within a House of Commons Exiting the European Union Committee’s report on the progress of the UK’s negotiation on EU withdrawal.
On the basis of this, in 2018 the Home Secretary wrote to the European Parliament’s Brexit Coordinator, calling for reassurances that member states were putting in place practical arrangements implementing the Withdrawal Agreement for UK nationals in the EU.
By engaging with grassroots advocacy groups and civil society organisations, Benson and Professor Karen O’Reilly’s research has ensured that the rights and concerns of this often-misrepresented population are made visible and consideration of their future needs was being included in the progress towards final Brexit arrangements.
Their work identified that public and political understandings of this population and what Brexit would mean for their lives was limited – evidence of the shape and size of the population of Brits living in the EU-27 was unreliable.
They have shown that the image of typical expats as “gin-swilling old colonials in the French countryside or working-class little Englanders living on the Spanish coast” is inaccurate - nearly 80% of British citizens in the EU are of working age and below.
Benson and O’Reilly’s research also showed that the general public seemed largely unaware of how the EU Freedom of Movement Directives that brought EU citizens to live and work in the UK had also supported the settlement of UK citizens across the EU.
Britain is widely portrayed as an immigrant nation but the rate of British emigration is one of the highest in the world.
Through their ethnographical research, Benson and O’Reilly have helped reinstate emigration as a significant contemporary social phenomenon.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/case-studies/daphne-oram-archive:
After Goldsmiths acquired the archive of composer Daphne Oram (1925-2003) in 2006, researchers brought the composer's music into the wider public domain through archival and practice research, writing and performance, encouraging a rethink of the established canon of electronic music.
With support from the Electronic Music Studios at Goldsmiths, and in collaboration with Sound and Music in its previous form of the Sonic Arts Network, this work helped build a greater understanding of Oram as a visionary figure in the early development of electronic music – a genre previously presented as the preserve of male musicians.
The project has changed the ways that culture professionals, including programmers, artists, critics and historians, conceive of and present historical electronic music.
Oram’s extraordinary work has reached hundreds of thousands of audience members, introducing or deepening their critical appreciation of electronic music history and practice.
Oram’s Oramics Machine, an early synthesiser, was built in the 1960s but lost after her death.
Dr Mick Grierson’s team tracked it down to France in 2008.
Working with the Science Museum, Grierson’s study provided the first full contextualisation of the machine, an assessment of its historical importance, and a detailed description of its workings.
The machine became a central part of the Science Museum exhibition Oramics to Electronica, originally planned to run for six months in 2011.
The show’s press and public uptake saw it extended a further four years.
In 1948, Oram created a piece for double orchestra, turntable and live electronics called Still Point, long thought of as the earliest composition to include real-time electronic transformation of instrumental sounds.
It had never been performed and was considered lost.
Dr James Bulley found fragments in the Oram archive and and working collaboratively with Dr Shiva Feshareki began a reconstruction, later finding the full score in the belongings of composer Hugh Davies.
A performance was commissioned by BBC Proms and performed by turntablist Shiva Feshareki, Bulley, and the London Contemporary Orchestra in 2018 at the Royal Albert Hall, reaching a substantial audience live and via BBC Radio 3.
The reaction was one of awe, with the piece described as “thrilling”.
Critical responses suggested that this realisation of Oram’s previously untested ideas represented a challenge to electronic music’s received history.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/case-studies/changing-perceptions-of-hair:
Goldsmiths Anthropology research has contributed to a better understanding of the social and cultural significance of human hair.
Research by Emeritus Professor Emma Tarlo has stimulated global conversations about hair, uncovering the realities of the secretive global hair trade, promoting religious literacy and challenging the stigma around hair loss.
Professor Emma Tarlo introduces her research on the anthropology of human hair
Professor Tarlo received over £145,000 from the Leverhulme Trust to explore the geography and ethics of the global hair trade, an industry worth billions of dollars each year.
Travelling the world, Professor Tarlo was able to trace the logistics of this secretive and unregulated industry, where the origins of hair products are often unclear.
She found that Western hair fashions have relied heavily on imports of hair from Asian countries for over a century, with many inequalities and exploitative practices continuing today.
Professor Tarlo’s research led to the publication of Entanglement: The Secret Lives of Hair, a book which has stimulated widespread public debate about the hair trade in the media and among hairdressers, hair suppliers and wearers.
Blonde wigs drying in a workshop in Qingdao before export to Manchester, UK
Boxed ringlets in a Chinese factory
Sacks of hair combings in Pyawbwe, Myanmar
Hair curling in the Raj International factory, Chennai
Professor Tarlo was called on to compile a report for leading rabbinical authorities in the Orthodox Jewish community concerning the ritual status of hair imported from temples in India.
The report contributed to a Rabbinical overruling of a ban on the use of Indian hair in wigs worn by Jewish women, bringing relief to wig wearers and traders across the world.
Further engagement with Jewish communities helped to explain Hindu hair practice and challenge many common misconceptions about the origins of Indian hair.
Hair sorting in a factory in Chennai
Supported by the National Lottery Heritage Fund, Professor Tarlo participated in a project with school children in Hereford.
The Big Wig Project tackled issues around gender stereotypes and social stigma through exploring the social and historical significance of wigs.
Professor Tarlo also collaborated on It’s Only Hair , an animated film about hair loss which has been used by organisations including Alopecia UK and the British Skin Foundation.
Hair is an extraordinary fibre: we associate it with life yet technically it is dead; it is fine but uncannily strong, intensely intimate yet in global circulation where it becomes treated as anything from waste, sacred gift and memento to a commodity with a surprisingly wide range of uses.
Professor Emma Tarlo

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/case-studies/exposing-environmental-racism:
Research by Goldsmiths-based agency Forensic Architecture has helped to evidence toxic levels of industrial air pollution in Louisiana, USA.
Forensic Architecture’s work has provided majority-Black communities in Louisiana with vital evidence in their campaign to halt the expansion of the area’s Petrochemical Corridor and protect the burial sites of their enslaved ancestors.
Forensic Architecture researcher Imani Jacqueline Brown shares the agency's work to support communities in Louisiana
After the discovery of plantation graves on sites owned by petrochemical companies, researchers from Forensic Architecture were approached by community activist group RISE St James to locate other lost graves.
The team sourced maps and aerial imagery going back 300 years and used advanced cartography techniques known as cartographic regression to find possible burial sites.
In the knowledge that enslaved people were often denied stone, researchers from Forensic Architecture identified isolated clusters of willow and magnolia trees planted to mark graves.
By identifying possible cemeteries, Forensic Architecture have provided local communities with evidence that could halt future development by the petrochemical industry.
Inconsistent cemetery marking samples - image courtesy of Forensic Architecture
The area between Baton Rouge and New Orleans is home to over 200 petrochemical plants.
It has become known as Death Alley or Cancer Alley since residents who breathe its toxic air suffer some of the highest rates of cancer in the United States.
Working with researchers in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Imperial College London, Forensic Architecture were able to demonstrate the toxic chemicals circulating in the air across this 85-mile corridor.
The researchers developed a series of fluid dynamics simulations showing the range of airborne pollutants being released by chemical facilities along the Mississippi River.
Forensic Architecture is a research agency based at Goldsmiths.
An emerging academic field, forensic architecture is a multifaceted discipline employing architectural evidence in a range of legal and political contexts.
The Forensic Architecture team investigate human rights violations committed by states, police forces, militaries and corporations, working closely with grassroots community groups and a range of other partners across civil society.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/case-studies/reforming-gambling-policy-:
Anthropology research at Goldsmiths has driven changes to government policy and industry practice on gambling.
Professor Rebecca Cassidy has spent two decades researching the commercial gambling sector.
Her work has helped parliamentarians to think differently about gambling and informed public debates in the UK and beyond.
Supported by a grant from the European Research Council, Cassidy worked with a team of academics to explore the ethics and politics of global gambling research.
The resulting Fair Game policy report co-authored by Professor Cassidy concluded that gambling research lacked independence, often reliant on financial support from the gambling industry.
Fair Game prompted the journal International Gambling Studies to introduce a disclosure policy for its contributors.
Professor Cassidy has worked closely with parliamentarians on gambling policy, as policymakers have begun to recognise the public health risk posed by gambling.
Cassidy's research was used in a House of Commons briefing paper about Fixed Odds Betting Terminals.
The Conservative government went on to cut the maximum stake on Fixed Odds Betting Terminals from £100 to £2 in 2018.
Professor Cassidy has advised a range of parliamentary groups, charities and government committees, including the House of Lords Select Committee on the Social and Economic Impact of the Gambling Industry.
Fixed Odds Betting Terminals are electronic machines found in high street betting shops across the country.
Players can access a variety of games including roulette, with machines accepting bets up to a pre-set maximum amount.
The machines have been controversial because of the large amounts of money individual players could lose in a short space of time.
Critics have claimed that the machines are highly addictive, with research from the Gambling Commission showing that nearly 14% of people who use the machines are problem gamblers.
Since new regulations came into force in 2019, players can bet a maximum of £2 on the machines in a single game.
Professor Cassidy’s work with policymakers has helped to raise awareness of the risks posed by these machines.
Professor Cassidy co-authored the first piece of research on gambling advertising during UK sports broadcasts.
The study looked at the frequency and duration of instances of gambling advertising during three live football matches on Sky television and in three episodes of Match of the Day.
It found that gambling advertisements occurred more frequently than those for alcohol or food.
The volume, duration and frequency of adverts were higher than in Australia before the Australian government introduced a ban.
Professor Cassidy went on to lead field work assessing the impact of gambling advertising on children and young people.
The research was quoted extensively in House of Lords debates and the Labour Party used it to call for a levy to fund research and a ban on gambling logos on football shirts.
Sky began to limit gambling adverts in their commercial breaks, and some football clubs released replica shirts for children without logos of gambling sponsors.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/case-studies/social-work-with-affluent-families:
Professor Claudia Bernard undertook the first piece of social work research in the UK to explore child abuse in affluent families.
Through investigating problems faced by social workers intervening with affluent parents, this research drew attention to an underexplored area of child social care.
Social work research and literature has tended to focus on child abuse in poor and working-class families.
Professor Bernard established a partnership with the City of London Corporation, a London borough, to explore the nature of child neglect in affluent families,
An initial review confirmed that most child protection social work is perceived to be focused on families in poverty.
Training for social workers used case studies almost exclusively from poorer families, even in more affluent areas.
Commissioned by the City of London Corporation, Professor Bernard led a national study exploring how social workers engage with parents from affluent backgrounds in suspected child neglect cases.
The study focused on twelve of the wealthiest local authorities in England, including interviews and focus groups with frontline social workers and managers.
[Bernard’s findings] empower colleagues to be more confident in challenging affluent families.
Accredited Independent Safeguarding Consultant, Department for Education
Bernard’s research found that recognising and naming child neglect in affluent families can be difficult.
Children from these families who came to the attention of social workers had high-quality housing, diets and education opportunities, making it hard to evidence cases of emotional neglect – the most common type of abuse in affluent families.
The research also showed that affluent parents used their social and financial capital to manipulate the child protection system.
Parents sometimes obstructed interventions, for example by threatening legal action or directly contacting senior managers and councillors.
These factors made it difficult for social workers to intervene in suspected child abuse cases, posing serious challenges for safeguarding children at risk.
Professor Bernard’s research led to policy changes on social work with affluent families in the City of London and five other London boroughs, affecting the work of over 4,800 social workers.
The impacts of the policy changes were shared with all 343 local authorities in England.
The research has brought about change beyond the social work field, with several independent schools incorporated the findings into their safeguarding policies.
The regulatory body for independent schools uses the insights in their training of over 700 inspectors and the Council of International Schools uses the research to provide child protection and student well-being training in international schools across the globe.
Children from middle-class and affluent families suffer childhood neglect in less visible ways.
UK Adverse Childhood Experiences

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/case-studies/improving-police-information-gathering:
Goldsmiths Psychology research has changed the way police investigators gather evidence from witnesses and victims.
Professor Fiona Gabbert, Director of the Goldsmiths Forensic Psychology Unit, worked with colleagues to develop the Self-Administered Interview technique.
This approach to police evidence gathering is now helping officers to secure quick and accurate accounts from eyewitnesses and victims, in the UK and abroad.
Professor Fiona Gabbert introduces the Self-Administered Interview
The Self-Administered Interview - or SAI - can help investigators in cases where there are multiple witnesses to a crime.
Instead of taking initial statements from each eyewitness, investigators use the SAI technique to elicit an initial statement.
Backed by over a decade of research, the questions in the SAI help the witness or victim to put together their account.
They encourage the user to record key details that could be vital to the investigation and can be answered quickly, helping to prevent memory contamination and forgetting over time.
The SAI technique has been recommended for use by the College of Policing since 2019.
The tool is one of their scientifically informed guidelines for frontline police officers tasked with obtaining initial eyewitness accounts.
The original SAI technique has been adapted for use across a range of investigative contexts, including in missing person investigations.
Professor Gabbert and colleagues worked with the National Crime Agency to develop SAI Missing, a self-administered report form to help investigators collect initial information about a missing person.
Friends and relatives use the online SAI Missing to share critical information with officers.
The tool ensures police time is focused on locating and safeguarding the missing person, while ensuring friends and family can contribute directly to the investigation.
“The impact of the research will be felt across policing”
Head of UK Missing Persons Unit, National Crime Agency
The Forensic Psychology Unit at Goldsmiths is an international hub for research exploring the relationship between psychological science and the criminal justice system.
The Unit specialises in investigative psychology, including areas such as investigative interviewing, facilitating retrieval and factors impacting the reliability of eyewitness memory.
Unit members are also experts in understanding and responding to criminal behaviour, and developing interventions such as education programmes.
The Forensic Psychology Unit offers both undergraduate and postgraduate courses in forensic psychology, as well as research degrees supervised by members.
Find out more about the Forensic Psychology Unit .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/case-studies/mutator-vr:
VR might be a ground-breaking technology in principle, but in practice most of its applications have been inspired by established cinematic and gaming forms.
With the development of the Mutator platform, Goldsmiths researchers created cross-disciplinary collaborations bringing together visual art, software engineering and scientific modelling.
The result is a suite of highly original VR experiences with diverse social and scientific impact.
This work has secured a deep engagement with international arts and culture audiences, found significant real-world applications in science and more recently attracted significant commercial interest.
William Latham and Frederic Fol Leymarie’s Mutator platform enables users to immerse themselves in experientially rich virtual landscapes based on rigorous mathematical modelling of biological systems.
The resulting pioneering VR experiences can be evocative artworks, illuminating scientific visualisations, educational models of biological processes, and entertaining immersive games.
As educational art-works, they have been taken into the public realm at globally renowned institutions as The Lowry in Manchester, the Pompidou Centre in Paris, and the Modern Art Museum in Shanghai, and have appeared in numerous less formal locations, including the New Scientist festival, the Kennin-iji Buddhist Temple in Kyoto, and the Horniman Museum and Gardens in south London.
In the late 1980s and early 1990s at IBM's UK Scientific Centre, Latham pioneered the use of algorithms to create computer graphics that mimic biological processes.
The products of the FormGrow system became fine art exhibited in galleries and pop-culture via the rave scene but were also rooted in rigorous mathematical modelling by the biologist William Hamilton and software engineering by Stephen Todd.
Mutator, and the development of the FoldSynth and CSynth systems, grew out of these roots.
It became clear that the platform could also support scientific visualisations if applied to real biological systems and help patients and researchers to understand how DNA folds, proteins dock, and viruses mutate.
This visualisation work also led to the development, with Imperial College, of the educational game BioBlox and is now being expanded to illustrate the molecular mechanisms used by Covid-19.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/fees-funding/scholarships:
We offer a range of scholarships, bursaries and fee waivers for undergraduate, postgraduate and PGCE students.
These offer additional financial support for your studies, and they don't have to be paid back.
Explore the options and find out whether you are eligible using our scholarships finder.
This content cannot be displayed without javascript.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/contacts-for-businesses:
There are two main departments at Goldsmiths you can contact.
Connecting with your students including:
Email employer-events (@gold.ac.uk)
Everything else including:
Email enterprise (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/employ-our-students:
At Goldsmiths we welcome the opportunity to work with organisations from all sectors with the aim of creating long-lasting, mutually beneficial relationships.
Advertise jobs, placements, and internships to Goldsmiths students.
Attract and recruit the brightest Goldsmiths students to your team.
How and why it is great to have Goldsmiths students come and work with you.
Register to advertise your volunteering opportunities and find guidelines for putting together an advert.
We organise subsidised graduate internships with SMEs supported by Santander.
Information for Organisations Recruiting for Volunteering Roles.
Contact Goldsmiths Career Service.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/consultancy-contract-research:
Engage our academics to help you gain new knowledge or apply existing knowledge to help your organisation.
Contract research allows private, public and third sector organisations to commission specific research to gain new knowledge and insight, while Consultancy sees existing knowledge applied to solve a particular challenge or help organisations to meet their objectives.
Our team can help you identify the expertise that could benefit you the most, connect you with relevant academic researchers, and provides end-to-end support in setting and meeting the deliverables for each project.
Projects are costed based on the staff and student time that goes into the project, meaning the size and scale can be tailored to your needs.
Our Innovation Vouchers scheme provides match-funding for contract research and consultancy projects.
Your company, charity or organisation can apply for Innovation Vouchers of up to £2,500 to match-fund projects with Goldsmiths academics.
Depending on the type of organisation, you must provide match-funding of:
Funding can be used to cover:
For more information and to apply, email enterprise (@gold.ac.uk) with the heading “Innovation Vouchers” to speak to a member of our team.
Building on our experience of what works well, we have a number of bespoke consultancy packages for a range of audiences:
Capitalising on our unique storytelling methodologies, we work with local authorities and developers to engage with residents and community stakeholders to hear forgotten stories in a given locality.
Complementing wider public consultation and engagement activity, this work ensures meaningful, deep-rooted understanding which can feed into local regeneration and development activity.
We work with local authorities, business improvement districts and high street stakeholders to help businesses organise creative and cultural activities which drive footfall, celebrate independent businesses and highlight the diversity of the UK’s incredible high streets.
If you are interested in learning more about Goldsmiths consultancy or contract research activities email: enterprise (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) are collaborative projects which link forward thinking businesses and not-for-profits with the UK's world class knowledge bases to deliver innovation projects led by inspired graduates.
Funded through Innovate UK, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and Management KTPs (mKTPs) are a three-way collaboration between:
Each KTP project lasts between 12 and 36 months, depending on the time required to deliver real outcomes.
Typically, the academic member of staff commits half a day per week to the KTP project.
KTPs can help your business or not-for-profit:
Part of the cost of a KTP is funded by a grant from Innovate UK that you apply for, and there is a success rate for applications of around 90%.
The remainder of the project cost is met by your organisation.
Project costs are typically around £75,000 – £90,000 per project year.
The grant rate is:
The cost of a KTP is comparable to employing a well-qualified graduate, but includes so much more.
These are designed to boost business capabilities through embedding management expertise.
They work in the same way as KTPs, but can be focussed on the operational and organisational elements of your business or not-for-profit.
Management KTPs are well suited to research expertise in our Institute of Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship and Institute of Management Studies.
To find out more about KTPs and Management KTPs, contact enterprise (@gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/culture-technology:
Creativity and culture transcend academic expertise across Goldsmiths.
Our expertise spans:
We have collaborated with a broad range of organisations both in and through creative disciplines, delivering projects with local, regional, national and global reach.
Our projects have supported creative organisations of all sizes to be resilient and grow.
We have facilitated grassroots, community-led cultural activation, used creativity to amplify local voices, and helped organisations capitalise on the latest technological advances.
And our partners in our Civic University Agreement .
If you are interested in learning more about our work with businesses, charities and public sector bodies email: enterprise (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/sustainability-climate:
The climate crisis is one of the biggest threats our society faces.
Goldsmiths’ research plays is part in addressing this through the application of its research.
Whether exploring what drives people to travel sustainability, investigating the environmental behaviours of television characters, or helping businesses to operate more sustainably, our expertise is making a difference.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/health-and-wellbeing:
Whether through meaningful community engagement, the application of new technologies in healthcare, healthcare through the arts, or the training of the next generation of social workers, our work is making a difference to public health across the UK and globally.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/inequalities-and-social-justice:
Our work helps to advocate for and amplify the voices of marginalised groups, supports underrepresented entrepreneurs to grow their businesses, and helps build understanding around the decolonisation endeavour.
We have worked with private, public and third sector organisations from a wide range of different industries to further their understanding and implement genuine, meaningful change.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/conference-services:
Goldsmiths has the perfect venue for your event, whether traditional, contemporary, historic or indulgent.
Endorsements for the Conference Services Department at Goldsmiths, University of London including quotes from clients.
Goldsmiths offers very attractive fully inclusive conference packages.
View our options for event catering.
Stay in the heart of the capital's arty suburbs.
Find out how to reach us.
Get in touch with us.
The Conference Services team offer a quality service to standards befitting of Goldsmiths and your event.
The team believes that individuality is at the heart of everything we do, and are on hand at every juncture to guide and advise you, delivering the service quality and professionalism you deserve.
Our event catering is all about variety, flexibility and quality - our catering team are able to work with you to create your ideal event menu.
Our aim is to exceed your expectations whilst ensuring your event is truly memorable.
Email: conference-services (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/print-services:
We provide quick and good value print solutions for businesses and individuals, as well as for the university’s staff and students.
Who we are; our location; information about payment and delivery
What we can offer you
What our customers say about us
How to get in touch and where to find us
We can print and bind your report.
Produce flyers or large format posters for your degree show or roll-up banners for your exhibition.
Print business cards for a new enterprise.
Make personalised greetings cards.
Or print brochures, booklets, postcards, magazines, newsletters, labels.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/short-courses:
We are no longer running a full short courses programme.
The Confucius Institute for Dance and Performance is running courses:
Learn or develop your language skills with short courses from beginner to advanced.
10 week beginner and intermediate short courses.
Short courses in kung fu, qigong and taichi.
Including classical, folk, sword, ribbon and fan dancing.
Including fiddle (erhu), ukelele (zhongruan) guzheng, pipa and folk singing.
Courses in the traditional arts of calligraphy, brush painting and handcraft.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/executive-education-and-training:
Goldsmiths can offer expertise in a wide range of subjects to help develop your organisation and your employees’ skills.
We are highly specialised in subjects such as organisational psychology, education and teacher training, machine learning and AR, art therapy, social work and community development, entrepreneurship and management as well as media and communications.
We have extensive experience creating training courses that are specifically designed for executives, entrepreneurs and professionals.
These courses are developed and delivered by experts in relevant industries, drawing on the latest knowledge and best practice in the field.
We can tailor our existing courses to fit your organisation’s needs and objectives or create suitable bespoke courses just for you and your organisation.
If you are interested in our executive training or bespoke courses, please contact us at Enterprise (@gold.ac.uk) to discuss your requirements further.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/business/start-up-support:
Grow your business with tailored start-up support from Goldsmiths through our specialist projects.
We have an excellent track record of working with start-ups, particularly within the creative industries and humanities sectors.
We have worked with numerous innovative companies supporting them to bring their ideas to life and grow them into successful business ventures.
Whether you need help with turning your ideas into reality, growing your business, or enhancing your skills through management training, Goldsmiths can offer the expertise to maximise your company’s potential.
We have also been an integral part of Lewisham Council’s start-up support environment, partnering with the Council in strategic projects and offering expertise in Goldsmiths’ specialist fields.
Goldsmiths has recently established the NX Hub, supported by Lewisham Council and the Greater London Authority, aimed at working with start-ups and SMEs in Lewisham and the local area.
The NX Hub currently offers digital networking opportunities, training and mentoring for start-ups.
For more information please contact us: enterprise (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/public-engagement/partnerships:
Goldsmiths fosters relationships in the local and wider London community, giving rise to exciting opportunities where the public can engage with our research, scholarship and practice in different ways.
Want to work on a project together?
Email Engage (@gold.ac.uk) to reach out
Sounds from the Gardens was created in partnership with the Being Human Festival and saw the public engage creatively with natural sounds and recording equipment.
As part of London Design Week and the V&A 's Digital Design Weekend, Windrush: Arrival 1948 transformed into an interactive installation at the museum where nearly 300 people participated in a weaving workshop after navigating a 'hostile environment'.
In 2019, Goldsmiths signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Horniman Museum & Gardens after the success of events such as Horniman X Goldsmiths Late.
Sounds from the Gardens in November 2019, hosted in the museum's grounds, was the first event held as part of this understanding.
Windrush: Arrival 1948 was exhibited in Lewisham Shopping Centre for several months in 2019 and encouraged the public to share their own thoughts and feelings on personal landing cards.
Across 2022 and into 2023 the Civic & Public Engagement team led on coordinating Goldsmiths’ contribution to Lewisham’s year as London Borough of Culture, including leading on the cultural heritage project In Living Memory , contributing to Goldsmiths’ Civic Engagement Strategy.
Councillor Brenda Dacres, MP Vicky Foxcroft & Warden Frances Corner at the Battle of Lewisham mural launch 2019.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/community/boc:
Lewisham was named London Borough of Culture for 2022, delivering a year-long programme of activities that place culture at the heart of their communities.
Lewisham was awarded £1.35m of funding to deliver We Are Lewisham , a festival of creative events, community engagement and cultural opportunities.
Goldsmiths was a key partner in the successful bid and proposed a series of contributions reflecting our central role in the borough’s cultural life for over 100 years.
Supported by funding from Lewisham Borough of Culture and the Heritage Lottery Fund, local people collaborated with researchers and creative practitioners from Goldsmiths to tell a new story of Lewisham’s recent past, in their own words.
A series of community-led projects were selected from around 70 expressions of interest.
They have been supported to undertake primary research into their chosen topic, gathering the memories of local people and developing them into striking cultural activities, unfolded across 2022.
Explore the projects on the In Living Memory website.
In Living Memory academic lead, Dr John Price, and author, Prof Francis Spufford, discuss his novel Light Perpetual at the launch event
Attendees watch a film installation ‘Fifteen Years Later (The Kiss)’ by artist Daniel Greenfield-Campoverde
Goldsmiths was awarded a contract with Lewisham Council to support high street businesses to participate in the Borough of Culture programme.
In the first stage of the project, 520 High Street Businesses were visited by Goldsmiths staff and students and encouraged to apply for a small grants fund.
Of the business contacted, 111 applications were received.
Businesses who were successful in applying for funding were supported in their participation in the We Are Lewisham programme, ranging from advice on developing cultural activities to translation and linguistic support.
Creative Futures aims to break down barriers to careers in the creative industries.
The Creative Futures Career Fair, co-organised with Lewisham Council, was held at Goldsmiths in May 2022.
It introduced local young people to the creative industries, especially in relation to areas such as creative computing, music, performing arts, and film.
The event brought together local partners such as the Albany, Lewisham College, Trinity Laban Conservatoire and Rose Bruford College of Theatre and Performance.
Partners showcased their work and held workshops around employability and CV skills.
The Creative Futures Careers Fair was held at Goldsmiths in May 2022
We are working with Lewisham on a number of projects linking the Climate Conversations programme with Goldsmiths' research expertise, our Green New Deal, and commitments in our Civic University Agreement to work with local partners on addressing the Climate Emergency.
Participants in the Park Life project perform spoken word poetry at Lewisham People's Day

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/community/dth-community-booking:
Use this page to submit a booking request to host a community event in Deptford Town Hall.
When you submit a completed form you will receive a confirmation email.
An email will also be sent to Conference Services, who manage room bookings at Goldsmiths, so we can check the availability of the requested spaces.
A member of the Conference Services team will contact you within two working days of your booking request.
Please note: submitting a request is not a confirmation of a booking and all booking requests will be subject to standard booking processes at Goldsmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using/visitors-and-alumni:
We welcome visitors from the Alumni, SCONUL, University of London and local community.
As a member of our Alumni community you can register for free library membership.
The Alumni Library membership allows you to access the Library 24/7 and borrow up to 5 items at a time.
The initial period of membership is 3 years and you are welcome to apply again if your membership expires.
Guest Wi-Fi is available.
While on campus alumni members are able to access some of our online resources via the Wi-Fi network but will have to bring their own device as we are unable to provide computer access.
Graduates of the University of London can also apply for Senate House Library Alumni membership which enables off site access to a range of electronic resources.
If you have outstanding books on loan on either your Goldsmiths or Senate House Library account, you will need to return these books before your application can be processed.
Apply online for your alumni library card
Students and staff from other universities can apply to use our Library under the SCONUL scheme.
First register with SCONUL .
Once you have received your validation email, you will need to complete the Goldsmiths SCONUL application form and receive your membership confirmation email before visiting the Library.
There is no walk-in access for SCONUL users until you have completed this process.
Applications may take up to five working days to process.
Once your application has been processed, we will send you a membership confirmation email explaining how to collect your Library card.
All SCONUL members can use the Library - Monday to Sunday 9am to 9pm
There is no access to computers (except the library catalogue).
Guest Wi-Fi and eduroam are available.
Full-time undergraduate students can use the Library for reference only.
PhD, postgraduate and part-time undergraduate students can borrow up to five books.
University Staff can borrow up to five books.
Complete the Goldsmiths SCONUL application form to use our Library
Undergraduate and taught postgraduate students who attend SCONUL institutions can apply for reference access to the Library over the Summer.
Please bring your home student ID card to Library reception and Security staff will register you for a temporary pass.
Access to the Library is from 9 am until 9pm.
If you require borrowing rights or longer access, please check if you are eligible to apply for the SCONUL access scheme .
Local residents are welcome at the Library.
Our community membership gives you reference access to our books and journals in Art, Education, Social Sciences, Computing and the Humanities.
We also hold a School Practice Library with material useful to teachers, and several Special Collections, including the Women’s Art Library.
Due to the collection being primarily for Goldsmiths students courses we are unable to provide borrowing access.
While in the library community users are able to access most of our online resources via the Wi-Fi network but will have to bring their own device as we are unable to provide computer access.
To apply you will need to be a Lewisham resident, over 18 and demonstrate genuine research needs\a need to engage with our collection.
Apply online for a community membership before visiting the library
Apply online for a community membership to our library
University of London students who are not eligible to apply for membership through the SCONUL access scheme may apply for reference access.
This mainly applies to taught postgraduates and undergraduates who attend King’s College, LSE and UCL.
You will need to apply online before visiting the Library.
There is no walk-in access for University of London students.
Apply online to access our library
Access for school visits and all other visitors who do not fit into the categories above should email library(@gold.ac.uk) in the first instance outlining their reasons for requiring access.
The Library (Rutherford Building) Goldsmiths, University of London London SE14 6NW
Contact us: library (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/community/staff-volunteering-locally:
Our Civic Days initiative supports and encourages Goldsmiths colleagues to volunteer with local organisations.
All Goldsmiths staff are entitled to three days of paid leave a year to volunteer.
This volunteering can be with any organisation of their choice, but we particularly encourage staff to take Civic Days – using their time to volunteer locally in the borough of Lewisham and South East London.
In 2021, Goldsmiths launched a Civic University Agreement to significantly enhance the role that the college plays as a committed, socially engaged anchor institution.
By volunteering within the London Borough of Lewisham or the wider local area, staff can take an active role in shaping our Civic Strategy and make a real difference in our local community.
We’re proud to call Lewisham our home.
This latest initiative is an explicit invitation to all of our colleagues to consider how their time and talents could benefit the wider community.
Professor Frances Corner, Warden of Goldsmiths
To date, Goldsmiths staff have been rolling up their sleeves and getting involved with everything from river clean ups to food banks, mental health charities to local festivals and community events.
Our staff have a huge array of skills to offer and have been getting involved in a wide variety of good causes across Lewisham and beyond.
As one member of staff who volunteered in 2023 put it, "This helps us to connect in ways we would normally not connect with some parts of the community.
It helps us develop and sustain our environmental, social and governance impact in our community and to understand the various ways in which we could help make the community better".
Read more about the Civic Days launch .
Goldsmiths staff volunteering at the Lewisham Donations Hub
If you are a local charity or community organisation within the borough of Lewisham currently looking for volunteers, please do get in touch via community (@gold.ac.uk) and let us know about opportunities.
Goldsmiths colleagues can find out more about how to get involved on the staff intranet .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/community/good-neighbour-policy:
Goldsmiths is aware of the impact its presence has on adjacent neighbourhoods.
In addition, the many students who live in the area also have an impact on local communities.
Goldsmiths College is a large organisation comprising some 10,000 students.
It occupies a single campus location in New Cross with sports facilities in the London Borough of Bexley and has a number of halls of residence in the surrounding area.
The College believes that overall, these impacts are positive.
However, it also recognises that there will always be planning, transport and other issues to be addressed and that problems can occasionally occur over student behaviour.
The College is committed to being a good neighbour by listening to and communicating with local residents, seeking to avert difficulties and encouraging high standards of conduct by all members of the College community.
The nature of the campus is such that students are integrated with the local community throughout their learning.
Most students from second year onwards will be living in privately rented accommodation in mixed communities within the local community.
Approximately half of first year undergraduates live in College managed accommodation.
Staff within the Accommodation Office remind students of the importance of acting in a considerate and responsible manner and undertake relevant disciplinary action regarding disturbance complaints from the community.
Goldsmiths students are independent adults and the College is not and cannot act in loco parentis.
Nonetheless, students are made fully aware of the standard of behaviour required by the College especially in terms of noise, waste and recycling management and anti-social behaviour, whether they are living in University owned and managed accommodation, third party or in privately owned accommodation.
As part of their induction students are told about these responsibilities before they arrive and reminded of them thereafter.
Students are subject to the same controls and laws as any other citizens and the College cannot usurp the responsibilities of the Police or other agencies.
However, given its desire to be a good neighbour and to safeguard its reputation, the College will formally communicate with students who are known to have behaved in an unacceptable manner.
The College’s Community Behaviour Policy details the steps that can be taken in this regard and how this links to our Student Conduct Regulations.
The Deputy Head of Accommodation Services at Goldsmiths is responsible for stakeholder engagement in relation to the Good Neighbour Policy.
The College also employs a Campus Life Manager and a team of Campus Support Officers to focus on this work.
The objective is to minimise examples of anti-social behaviour and, where it occurs, to avoid any repetition of it.
The College can, in such cases, take a range of disciplinary actions against a student if necessary, seeking to secure a change in behaviour.
All complaints will be treated very seriously and there is a process in place to address and monitor reported problems.
The very nature of a College’s activities means that a certain amount of noise generation is unavoidable, whether this is associated with buildings and plant or with the movement of large numbers of people.
Where noise is predictable and persistent (such as that caused by plant and machinery), the College commits to managing the problem proactively in order to minimise any disturbance that may be caused.
Activities, such as construction, that cause noise, which cannot be reduced to a reasonable level will be constrained to Local Authority approved hours only.
Noise created by people and planned events will be managed to limit any nuisance and disturbance caused, for example by locating noise-creating activities so that people disperse in several directions, before leaving the campus.
Where this is not possible, at sites such as the Students’ Union or residences, consideration will be shown to neighbours in determining the timing of events and any security presence required.
The College runs recycling schemes at all its residences and is continually exploring ways of increasing student awareness and new ways of reducing waste.
Students in the community are alerted to their responsibilities in respect of waste and recycling.
The College finances additional services at the end of the academic year to ensure that student waste is recycled, donated or collected.
Goldsmiths is an open campus.
Its grounds are open to the public and it offers access to Library facilities for local residents.
The College makes every effort to ensure its campus is safe and secure.
Nevertheless, students are advised to take sensible precautions for their own safety when walking around, particularly late at night.
In response to the fact that College buildings offer a target for burglars there is a 24-hour security patrol of all of the College’s estate.
The patrol adopts a highly visible presence in order to act as a deterrent.
Students living in University accommodation and private accommodation are provided with advice about security and crime prevention.
The large staff and student population has a positive impact on the local economy.
There is increased trading activity in areas such as New Cross, Deptford and Brockley and local residents benefit from the range of businesses supported.
Currently, around 40% of Goldsmiths suppliers are based in London, with over £8m being spent annually by the College with suppliers based locally in south east London.
The College’s main purposes are to educate and research and it does not regard retail trading as part of its core business so, apart from the necessary provision of internal catering for its own staff and students, the College will avoid competing for trade with any local businesses.
Students at Goldsmiths are encouraged to take a broad interest in the local area and to engage with their local community at many levels.
Co-ordinated by the Careers Service, and in partnership with the Students’ Union, they undertake an enormous range of voluntary activities.
Students and staff are also involved in many other academic and sporting activities and also work closely with local schools.
Our outreach work with primary schools reached more than 1,500 young people last year, while our work with secondary schools engaged more than 2,000 young people.
The College welcomes local residents to many public events and free public lectures, and seeks to promote these through active marketing.
The College listens to and communicates with the general public, including its immediate neighbours, so that problems and issues can be highlighted.
Any complaints from the public will be acknowledged and an indication will be given of the steps that are likely to be taken.
The College’s senior management will monitor the range of issues raised in this way and will take account of this in setting future policies.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/community/local-research:
Our academics and students work on projects in and around Lewisham helping with local challenges and developments.
We have two centres that bring together researchers from across Goldsmiths to work on local projects.
The centre aims to complement and collaborate with existing community research and engagement activities across Goldsmiths and the surrounding communities.
It has looked at Lewisham's Youth Offending Service, training for social workers, and children's services.
More on the CCER
With core expertise ranging from visual sociology to digital geo-demography, the CUCR remains central to debates about community, ecology, governance, multi-culture, citizenship, arts and media in contemporary cities.
It has looked at the role of water in city life, bowling alleys and the impact of Jamaican music.
More on the CUCR
Here is a selection of our current and recent projects.
Goldsmiths is located in south east London, a historic centre of the capital’s sound system culture.
Sound System Outernational is an ongoing initiative of practitioners and researchers, in association with Goldsmiths, dedicated to recognising, stimulating and supporting sound system culture worldwide.
Sound System Outernational creates spaces for dance and discussion.
They organise events to bring together:
Find out more on the Sound System Outernational website .
Goldsmiths' Senior Lecturer, Dr Kalbir Shukra was commissioned by Lewisham Council and the charity Lewisham Local to report on the Lewisham Covid-19 Emergency Response Hub, which was operational from March to August 2020.
The Response Hub aimed to co-ordinate and deliver information, food and a befriending service during the national lockdown to isolated, vulnerable people with the help of partner organisations and an army of newly recruited volunteers.
Dr Shukra’s report provided a list of recommendations for volunteering and partnerships in the borough and concluded: “The government’s furlough scheme demonstrated the potential that is unleashed when people have an adequate income along with time to spare.
Lewisham saw how people will volunteer to contribute skills and spare time if they are not trying to eke out a living on low pay or inadequate benefits.”
Read our news story about the report .
Since 2014 CCER has been collaborating with Pepys Community Forum in Deptford (south east London) in supporting local residents and community organisations to develop a voice concerning a major riverside housing and commercial development in their locality at Convoys Wharf.
Using an ethnographic approach to the research, we are adapting and using a variety of methods appropriate to accumulating local knowledge and understanding the context.
Methods have included street surveys; participant observation; community sounding board events; discussions at community ‘bumping spaces’; group discussions at community hubs/centres; house/flat interviews; and community mapping.
The project has been supported by Awards for All Funding and Goldsmiths Enterprise funding.
CUCR has evaluated the renovation of the Fellowship Inn pub and its transformation into the Fellowship and Star, a new community venue in Bellingham, Lewisham that combines enterprise, heritage and community development.
It tells the story of the rebirth of the pub led by Phoenix Community Housing, a resident-led housing association that manages 6,000 homes in south Lewisham.
The key challenge that the Fellowship and Star faced when it opened its doors was how to re-imagine the original mission of a community public space in a 21st Century context.
A context, in which the social, cultural and demographic nature of the local area is also changing rapidly.
Read more on the CUCR blog
This research started with a seemingly ordinary place, a bowling alley, used by a diverse population in terms of age, class and ethnicity.
It sought to find out: What kinds of interactions, tensions, strategies of avoidance and of negotiation, does the space engender?
What are the limits to the sharing of space and how do divisions outside the bowling alley play out within?
To answer these questions, the project used various methods, including interviews with bowlers and local stakeholders, and participant observation.
Research participants were asked to share photos and videos taken of their activities within the bowling alley.
As well as reports and academic journal articles, the project produced a documentary and an interactive website.
The project website: bowltogether.org

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/community/civic-catalysts:
Civic Catalysts is a programme of activity designed to help link Goldsmiths research to the needs of the diverse communities within the London Borough of Lewisham.
Linked to the Goldsmiths Civic University Agreement (CUA), the aim of this programme is to bring researchers together with local partners and support them in developing partnerships, piloting ideas, and undertaking projects that will make a positive impact locally.
We have supported projects under this programme working with homelessness charities, housing associations, community action groups and cultural start-ups.
As a community partner on one of our previous projects has put it: "This project has been transformational.
It has allowed an experimental community project to be shaped in the best way possible….
This project will influence future community engagement work within Lewisham borough and beyond."
The programme provides networking opportunities, events and one-to-one support to help connect Goldsmiths research to local needs and concerns.
There are also opportunities for catalyst funding to help get projects off the ground.
Civic Catalysts aims to initiate projects that relate to at least one of the priority areas set out in the Goldsmiths Civic University Agreement (CUA) (2021).
More detail on our ambitions under each of these areas can be seen in the full CUA .
If you would like to contact the team to discuss a project that you feel fits the criteria above and would benefit from support – whether by finding a relevant academic at Goldsmiths, being matched with a suitable partner, or just having a chat – please contact community (@gold.ac.uk) .
Please visit this page for full details on how to get involved with our current opportunities.
Migration Museum and Louise Doherty (STaCS)
This project was a collaboration between the Mona Jamil and Jason Page of the Migration Museum and Goldsmiths Lecturer and Researcher Louise Doherty .
Louise worked with Mona and Jason to evaluate the People's Panel and Network, an initiative established in 2022 to embed grassroots community engagement and co-production in the Migration Museum's work and ethos.
As well as evaluating the project’s processes and framework for co-production so far, Louise worked with Mona and Jason to locate the Migration Museum’s values via analysis of the workshops and surveys undertaken with the People’s Panel and Network.
An open access toolkit has now been produced offering practical advice and recommendations to other organisations seeking to embed meaningful co-production in their programming and community engagement practices.
The toolkit and final report from this project are now available on the Migration Museum’s website.
Dr Emma Jackson , researchers from the Centre for Community and Urban Research and the 999 Club
Deptford’s 999 Club is a long-established local charity supporting people experiencing homelessness or at risk of homelessness.
As part of a programme of activity initiated by the charity’s 30 th anniversary in 2022, Civic Catalyst funding supported Dr Jackson and a team of researchers from the CUCR to work with the 999 Club on developing an Impact Evaluation Report exploring the charity’s impacts as a local anchor institution in Lewisham.
Interviews were conducted with 999 Club clients and staff.
Data was analysed and was synthesised to bring together a comprehensive report on the unique status of the charity and its role in the community.
Findings included an affirmation of the value of the 999 Club’s unique holistic and human-centred approach to supporting vulnerable clients, and the importance of continuing to develop its recent focus on co-production and community-led service provision.
The report also pointed to the importance of 999 Club uncovering and celebrating its local links and history, including by potentially developing an archive, film or oral history project to better preserve the charity’s history and tell its story.
Some of these recommendations have already been acted on by the 999 Club.
Read the full 999 Club Impact Evaluation report on the 999 Club’s website .
Dr Tobie Kerridge and Dr Sarah Pennington (Design), Quaggy Waterways Action Group
This project explored new ways of fostering stewardship of rivers and waterways.
Rivers are natural resources that can build wellbeing and support participation in local settings, while also being subject to a range of environmental pressures.
Take Me to Your River saw students and researchers delivering activities, creating interventions and prototyping ways of responding to local and national environmental concerns.
Challenges explored included sewage in our rivers, climate change and habitat loss, drought and water scarcity, pollution and flooding.
A publication has now been produced from the project, which was launched at an event as part of London Rivers Week 2023.
Read the final ‘Take Me to Your River’ publication .
Lewisham Music and Graham Dowdall (STaCS)
Between 2021-23 Lewisham Music led the creative music project Sonic Minds.
This award-winning programme supported over 300 care experienced children and displaced young people through the creation of original music.
A Civic Catalyst grant enabled Lewisham Music to pilot new creative evaluation processes, exploring the impact of one output of Sonic Minds, a sculpture by Sound designer and artist Gawain Hewitt on display at The Horniman Museum from Sept-Dec 2022.
The project aimed to capture responses from the public and project participants as they saw and heard their work elevated into a professional public gallery, generating insights to inform future practice.
Read the final Sonic Minds evaluation .
Mikey Kirkpatrick, Alchemy, and the Albany
The Alchemy project works with young people in Lewisham who may be at risk of exclusion from local schools.
In collaboration with the Albany arts centre in Deptford and other local partners, including the Sonic Street Technologies research programme, this project worked with Alchemy participants to produce a mix tape and book that distilled the core values and achievements of the programme.
The Alchemy Is book and mixtape were launched at an event at the Albany in 2024 and will help to take Alchemy to the next stage of its development as a project supporting local young creatives to develop their music skills, confidence and wellbeing.
Read more about Alchemy Is ….
on the project website .
Phoenix Community Housing and Dr Rebecca Charlton (Psychology)
Phoenix Community Housing is a resident-led housing association in Bellingham, which owns and manages over 7,500 homes.
As the first resident-led housing association in London, engagement is key to Phoenix’s operating model.
However, not all residents currently engage equally in this process.
This project worked with two under-represented groups among Phoenix Residents: people with neurodiversity and working-class men.
It researched how to better involve these groups in resident-led activities at Phoenix and how housing associations more broadly can remove barriers to participation.
Read more about the launch of outputs from this research at Phoenix Community Housing.
Dr Francis Gilbert (Educational Studies), Deptford Green Secondary School and John Donne Primary School
The Parklife Project aimed to empower young people in Lewisham to become researchers into, and advocates for, their local parks.
Ultimately, it aimed to foster deeper engagement with their local parks and to create meaningful ecological, social and psychological change in park users.
Alongside Masters and Undergraduate students from Goldsmiths, Dr Gilbert worked with pupils at Deptford Green Secondary School, Lewisham, and with Year Three pupils at John Donne Primary School, Peckham.
Pupils were supported in drawing up action plans for improving parks and green spaces.
The project culminated in two Advocacy Days where pupils presented these plans, alongside other research findings, to policy makers, local politicians, representatives from park user groups, the police and park managers.
In total nearly 100 school students were involved in the project.
In 2023 the project secured additional funding from the British Academy.
Watch a film about the Parklife Project created by Deptford Green Students.
The Seeding the Garden project explored how the Goldsmiths Art Research Garden might link to the other local gardens, green spaces and nature reserves making up Lewisham’s  ‘green infrastructure’.
Led by Dr Anna Colin (Art) a research team including academics and students surveyed a range of local research garden models and explored practical considerations for the implementation of an accessible garden and facility on the Goldsmiths campus.
Through interviews with local authority officials, artistic directors, horticulturalists and community gardeners, the project explored how to create a new green space that is both a vibrant research environment and a civic asset.
The project also included the commissioning of a functional artwork in the Art Research Garden.
Artists Harun Morrison and Paul Granjon were commissioned to design a composting system that they conceived as a Singing Compost, embedded with microphones and microbial batteries to translate the sounds of the decomposition of garden waste into soil.
This artwork also serves as an education and engagement resource in the garden and is regularly used for public events.
Seeding the Garden culminated in a report compiled with research assistance by Fatima Alaiwat, Olivia Middelboe and Borbála Soós.
This Civic Catalyst project has been pivotal in helping to take the Art Research Garden to the next stage in its development
Read the Seeding the Garden project report here .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/community/civic:
Goldsmiths has a long history of local engagement.
From our founding in 1891 as a technical College to serve the local community in New Cross, we have committed to making a difference through teaching, research, knowledge exchange and public engagement.
Following a process of consultation , we are among the first universities in the UK to develop a Civic University Agreement , committing us to working even more closely with other local anchor institutions to find solutions to shared challenges.
This includes helping recovery and regeneration from the Covid-19 pandemic, supporting people through the Cost-of-Living Crisis and partnering on cultural initiatives such as Lewisham’s year as London Borough of Culture in 2022 .
Our Civic University Agreement is supported by a new Civic Strategy, which sets out our commitment to establishing ‘A Better World, Delivered Locally’.
Across all our work, our Civic Mission is rooted in working with local communities to address issues relating to:
Co-produced with 11 local anchor institutions in the London Borough of Lewisham, our Civic University Agreement sets out a shared vision for making a difference locally.
Developed through consultation with local communities, businesses and stakeholders, together we have identified the priority areas where we can work together to improve the lives of those in our locality.
Read more about our Civic University Agreement .
From widening participation and engaged research to business support and cultural engagement, we support our local communities in many ways and offer a wide range of local services.
Working with local partners, our Civic University Agreement has also enabled us to develop new initiatives, like our Civic Days staff volunteering programme and our Civic Catalysts participatory research initiative.
Read more about our work with local communities and what’s on offer .
We are always open to hearing from local organisations that may want to explore new ways of working with us.
Please send us an email to community (@gold.ac.uk) and we reply as soon as possible.
If you are a member of staff or student at Goldsmiths and interested in getting involved in any of our civic work, please contact community (@gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/textile-collection:
The Constance Howard Gallery is a centre dedicated to multidisciplinary textiles research, and is home to the Goldsmiths Textile Collection
The Collection, founded in the 1980s by Constance Howard and Audrey Walker, comprises textile art, embroidery and dress from all continents.
Our global collection is complemented with a variety of teaching materials and archives, including technical and experimental samples and Constance Howard's own teaching archive.
View a selection of pieces from our collection and images of our slide collection of past student work done at the college .
The Constance Howard Gallery holds a specialist reference library, the Goldsmiths Textile Collection selectable from the Library Catalogue, that includes historical and anthropological resources on textiles and dress, books on textile materials and techniques, with a substantial selection of rare materials on textile and fibre art, exhibition catalogues, and books and pamphlets on individual artists.​
The Constance Howard Gallery holds a regular programme of events and exhibitions.
We host a wide variety of researchers and practitioners from different disciplines including visual arts, visual cultures, anthropology, theatre and performance, cultural studies, educational studies, history and design.
We are open to the public and we welcome visitors from within Goldsmiths and other institutions.
We organize an annual prize, the Christine Risley Award , open to all students graduating from BA degree programmes at Goldsmiths, whose work engages with textiles.
Telephone: +44(0)20 7717 2210 Email: textiles (@gold.ac.uk) Instagram: @textilesgold Opening hours and where to find us

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/anthropology:
Meet the Department of Anthropology staff.
What it is like to be an Anthropology student, from developing your own skills and knowledge to careers support.
Our staff and postgraduate research ranges across the world and across many sub-fields of social anthropology.
Find out how our alumni are redefining the field of anthropology.
We host events that push the boundaries of anthropology and centre collaborative practice and radical thinking.
Contact the Department of Anthropology.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/art:
Meet out world-leading researchers and tutors.
We have a dynamic, internationally respected research culture.
How to contact us about working or studying with us.
Every summer our students showcase their work on campus and in our online catalogues.
Throughout the year we host a range of events and talks open to the public, students and staff.
Our Art Practice Areas staff have art backgrounds and specialist knowledge in their fields.
Supporting students and alumni to bring their ideas for public-facing exhibitions to life.
Prizes awarded to students in recognition of exceptional achievement.
The Schools Studio Programme provides mentorship by Goldsmiths students to 16-18 year olds in local schools and colleges.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/call:
If English isn't your first language, we have a wide range of programmes to help you succeed
Find out about our subject-specific and general modules
Find contact details for our staff
Stay up to date with all of our recent events in the Centre for Academic Language and Literacies
Get in touch with the Centre for Academic Language and Literacies

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/computing:
Find out what it is like to be a computing student at Goldsmiths, how we teach and the opportunities you'll get.
Profiles of our academic staff and contacts for our professional staff.
Events from the department that are open to the public, students and staff.
We have a wealth of specialist rooms and equipment that enable students to create cutting-edge work.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/confucius-institute:
We strive to bring Chinese language and culture to a wider audience.
Meet the Confucius Institute for Dance and Performance staff.
How to contact us about our courses and work.
We offer bespoke courses and the Chinese proficiency test examinations.
We provide workshops, classes and performances at schools, for businesses or for the local community.
A funded opportunity for young people to experience Chinese culture in person.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/design:
Study one of our internationally-reputed design degrees.
Open days, exhibitions and other events happening in the department.
Meet the staff in the Department of Design.
A dynamic culture of inventive, experimental and critical research in the Department of Design.
Read press coverage for staff, alumni and students from the Department of Design.
Keep up to date with the Department of Design on our blog.
Get in touch with the Department of Design.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/educational-studies:
Study our programmes or find our different routes into primary and secondary teaching.
Meet the Department of Educational Studies staff.
More on our research in young people’s learning, social justice and more.
Offering CPD, Certificates, Diplomas, MA and Research provision focused on schools' needs.
Information about both our primary and secondary partnerships.
Student and alumni share their experiences of studying at Goldsmiths.
Our expertise and reputation in excellent teacher training makes us ideal.
Some PGCE students can receive a tax-free Initial Teacher Training bursary.
Get in touch with the Department of Educational Studies.
View upcoming events happening in the department that are open to staff, students and the public.
You can find out more about studying for a PGCE at one of our Goldsmiths-wide Open Days

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/ecw:
One of the UK’s most prestigious and best-selling poetry magazines.
Our collaboration with Goldsmiths extends to student work placements through the Careers Office.
Our alumni are among the leading writers today, with many winning or being shortlisted for top literary prizes.
Meet the Department of English and Creative Writing Staff.
Our academic staff are fully active in scholarly research in a variety of studies, as well as in creative writing.
Upcoming conferences and events within the department
Read some of our fantastic student publications including GLITS-e and Goldfish
Get in touch with the Department of English and Creative Writing.
Learn more about the Centre for Caribbean and Diaspora Studies.
Learn more about the Centre for Philosophy and Critical Thought.
More about the Writers' Centre and how it encourages new writing and links students to different parts of the college.
Learn more about the Decadence Research Centre.
Learn more about the Centre for Comparative Literature.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/history:
Find out more about the Department of History at Goldsmiths.
We offer undergraduate, taught postgraduate and research postgraduate programmes.
Meet the Department of History staff.
Discover some of our students' current and completed research projects.
The Balkans provides a fertile ground for further exploration of issues relevant to research carried out across Goldsmiths.
This research centre bring together scholars and practitioners who are working on and with the body.
Get in touch with the Department of History.
We offer shorter courses in the arts, social sciences, business, computing and more.
For adult learners, college students and anyone who wants to learn.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/icce:
Find out more about the Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship
Meet the staff in the Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship
Meet graduates from the Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship
Get in touch with the Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship
Study on one of our undergraduate or postgraduate programmes
A programme of workshops by ICCE to develop entrepreneurial tools for mapping your future
Find out more about our learning partners
Official blog following staff events and achievements in ICCE.
Follow the Institute on Twitter
ICCE Research Strategy
Optional entrepreneurship Undergraduate modules for students across Goldsmiths

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/institute-management-studies:
Find out more about the Institute of Management Studies.
Find out what you can study with the Institute of Management Studies.
Meet the Institute of Management Studies staff.
The IMS aims to be a research driven institute, where our scholarship heavily informs our teaching.
Meet our students and hear their experiences from Goldsmiths.
Get in touch with the Department of Institute of Management Studies (IMS).

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/law:
Find out what it is like to be a student of Law at Goldsmiths, how we teach and the opportunities you'll get.
Our research addresses major socio-political, cultural and economic questions that we face today.
Find out about the multidisciplinary team that teaches law at Goldsmiths.
Posts exploring teaching, legal research, career development and student life.
Events from Goldsmiths Law that are open to staff, students and the public.
Students confront challenging societal issues through supervised legal research and public engagement activity.
From localised bribery to international fraud and the unlawful extraction of money threatens global governance.
Immigration has been driving both population growth and economic development in the UK for decades.
Safeguarding fundamental rights such as legal assistance is indispensable to ensuring compliance with the rule of law.
New counterterrorism normalcy is a fundamental challenge to the human rights regime.
Support for asylum seekers making fresh claims is an especially underserviced area of legal practice.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/media-communications:
Find out why we're ranked 2nd in the UK for communication and media studies (QS World Rankings by subject 2022).
We are ranked 2nd in the UK for 'world leading' and 'internationally excellent' research in REF 2021.
What's coming up in the department.
Meet the Department of Media, Communications and Cultural Studies staff.
Undergraduate, postgraduate and research study options in Media, Communications and Cultural Studies.
A range of MA programmes questioning what counts as media, creatively and critically shaping innovative approaches to professional practice and research
The next-generation film school that gives critical context and empowers our students to be at the cutting-edge of new work and new developments in this fast-changing sector.
Get in touch with the Department of Media, Communications and Cultural Studies
See some of our student work channels.
Read about some of the careers our graduates go on to achieve.
We are home to the CIJ, committed to critical in-depth reporting and defence of the public interest.
An intensive blend of workshop-based training in key practical skills to create critically aware, thinking journalists.
We are 2nd in the UK for 'world leading' and 'internationally excellent' research for media, communications and cultural studies

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/music:
Alongside traditional music courses, we encourage open-minded debate and a commitment to all types of music.
Many of our events are free and open to the public.
Meet the Department of Music staff.
We lead research in theoretical areas - musicology, ethnomusicology, popular music - and in creative practice.
NX Records is our record label, directed by Matthew Herbert.
Our professional-level recording studios are available for both student and commercial use.
Established in 1968, the first permanent electronic music facility in the UK university sector.
Our alumni go on to become musicians and Mercury Prize-winning pop stars, to lawyers, academics and administrators.
Get in touch with the Department of Music.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/politics-and-international-relations:
We’re interested in what happens at the edges of cultures, societies or systems.
Profiles of our academics, visiting and emeritus colleagues and the work of our research students.
Our research includes but extends beyond the traditional boundaries of Politics and International Relations.
Get in touch with the Department of Politics and International Relations.
Our degrees can provide you with the skills and knowledge necessary for a future career.
What industries and sectors our degrees could set you up for career in.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/psychology:
We have an innovative outlook, with world leading experts in all areas of Psychology.
What it is like to be a student, including career enhancing opportunities and our teaching expertise.
Profiles of our academic and professional staff and the work of our research students.
Exploring the biological and cognitive basis of musical behaviour and experience, as well as their impact on society and culture.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/stacs:
Profiles of our academic staff and associate tutors.
We aim to equip you with the knowledge, values and skill set you need to practise as a reflective and ethical social worker.
We develop skilled and reflective practitioners engaged with evidence-based and research practices.
Our youth and community work programmes are about working in difficult and complex community settings.
Our hubs bring together academics from across Goldsmiths with external partners.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/sociology:
We are interested in pushing the discipline forward and are known for pioneering ‘Live Sociology’.
What it is like to be a student, developing key skills and knowledge, benefiting from support and our expertise.
Find out how our research in culture, identity and inequalities feed into teaching BA Sociology.
Find out how our research in health, environment and global change feeds into teaching BA Sociology.
Find out how our research in law, justice and rights feeds into teaching BA Sociology
Practice on climate change, global health, migration, racism, gender diversity and the philosophy of governance.
Meet our students and read about the work they are doing.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/theatre-performance:
Study on one of our undergraduate or postgraduate programmes.
Studios, spaces, equipment and services.
Meet the Department of Theatre and Performance staff.
Meet our former graduates and hear their experiences from Goldsmiths.
Events, performances and conferences happening within the department.
Diverse range of work, including practice-as-research, cross-culturalism, and more.
Get in touch with the Department of Theatre and Performance.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/visual-cultures:
Meet the Department of Visual Cultures staff.
Find out about our research, including possible areas of PhD supervision and more.
View upcoming events happening in the department.
Get in touch with the Department of Visual Cultures.
See work from the department @visualculturesgold.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/the-spell-or-the-dream:
Department of Computing technicians have worked on a major art piece by Turner Prize winner Tai Shani, commissioned to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Somerset House.
Credit: The Spell or The Dream by Tai Shani © David Parry, PA Media Assignments
The Spell or The Dream is a multi-faceted work combining sculpture, radio, and live gatherings presented by Somerset House Studios artist Tai Shani.
At the heart is The Spell, a hand-painted blue figure slumbering in a glass casket on a stepped plinth, that Goldsmiths experts were charged with bringing to life.
Nicky Donald, research technologist, worked with technician Mirko Febbo on the project with London-based fabrication studio Art & Assembly and provided the solution that brings the dreamer to life, by making it gently breathe.
Building on years of expertise working as a technician and engineer on projects including rock concerts, the Millennium Dome, West End theatre, and BBC productions, Nicky is an expert in the art of the possible – the practicalities behind realising ambitious creative ideas.
Or as he says, “I don’t even count myself as a creative, I’m more into project realisation and delivery.”
Nicky, a Goldsmiths graduate, worked on sourcing the UK-made motor that would make the figure breathe, building and testing a prototype to ensure robustness, as well as troubleshooting and preparing backups ahead of potential problems.
Reliability is key when it comes to mechanisms that need to perform consistently over long periods of time, especially in outdoor conditions where they are exposed to the elements.
Fellow graduate and mechanical sculptor Mirko Febbo then built a metal frame for the motor that emulates the expansion and contraction of lungs to make the breathing appear realistic.
Using his coding knowledge, he created a sequence that causes the mechanism to mimic a sleeper’s breathing patterns.
While traditionally supporting students in their work, the technical team’s depth of expertise and skills is also being deployed to partner with cultural concerns to help them realise their creative projects.
I knew that we had the skills in the department to do this job.
At Goldsmiths we’ve got good creative strength across-the-board.
Nicky Donald, Research Technologist
Monica Fong, Studio Manager at Art & Assembly, is a graduate of the MFA Fine Art programme.
Monica knew that Goldsmiths had the technical expertise needed for this project from her first-hand experience of working with the technicians as a student:
“During my time at Goldsmiths, I worked closely with the technicians in the Computing department as part of my practice research and working toward my degree show presentation.
I developed a close professional relationship with the Computing technicians, and invaluable insight into how they work and the undeniable creativity and life they bring to ambitious and complex multi-disciplinary projects.”
“When Art & Assembly was approached during the Feasibility Study stage of developing the Tai Shani commission with Somerset House, I knew Goldsmiths technical team were the right ones for the job!”
From the initial idea, through R&D and how the animatronics would interact with both the sub-structure and final aesthetic finishes, Nicky and Mirko came prepared for the challenge, with a solution to any difficulty we hit along the way, and it was an absolute pleasure to have had them on the project.
Monica Fong, Studio Manager at Art & Assembly and MFA Fine Art graduate
Find out more about consultancy and business support in creative economy, cuture and technology
Published: 12 Aug 2025
Research Technologist

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/robotics-addey-and-stanhope-:
From robotics clubs to Artificial Intelligence (AI) literacy, the School of Computing is supporting digital skills on our doorstep.
We believe in putting knowledge into action — and that includes working with our closest neighbours to open up creative opportunities and build future-facing skills.
Goldsmiths support Year 7 pupils from Addey & Stanhope with hands-on robotics and coding sessions, exploring real-world tech
The School of Computing has been deepening its local outreach work in 2025, offering coding and robotics to young people in Lewisham, one of London’s most deprived boroughs, but also home to rich creativity and resilience.
This summer, a group of Year 7 pupils from local Deptford school, Addey & Stanhope joined a practical robotics club run by Goldsmiths' Llewelyn Fernandes (Computing), supported by Chloe Young (Student Success) and charity ESDEG (Education and Skills Development Group) .
One of the robots designed and assembled by Addey & Stanhope pupils with support from Goldsmiths Computing staff and students.
Over a series of sessions, the students collaborated with Goldsmiths Computing students to design, code, and control wheeled robots — even racing them in a final celebration of what they’d built.
“Student engagement was sky high,” said Jake Armstrong, the school’s Business and Computing teacher.
“They seriously started considering a future career path in technology.”
Second-year Goldsmiths students Sana Chikkam and Nadeesh Jeyashankar played a key role in supporting the sessions, helping the school pupils assemble and program their robots while gaining new skills themselves.
Lewisham pupils get hands-on with robotics during a summer skills initiative  supported by Goldsmiths.
It’s been lovely seeing the kids engage and come up with their own ideas.
I’ve started building my confidence in leading small groups and I’ve learned a lot about the Microbit too!”
Sana Chikkam, second-year student, BSc Creative Computing
Each child brought their own approach.
It deepened my own understanding and seeing them enjoy the process was really rewarding.”
Nadeesh Jeyashankar, second-year student, BSc Digital Arts Computing
Addey & Stanhope student takes part in a practical session designed to spark interest in creative technology and computing.
After a summer pause, the School of Computing is gearing up for even more local civic activity when the new academic year gets underway.
Dr Akshi Kumar will be kicking things off with AI literacy sessions for community groups, helping break down the buzzwords and make new technologies feel more accessible, useful and inclusive.
Second-year student, Sana Chikkam works with pupils in a hands-on session designed to make tech more accessible and inclusive.
In September, young people aged 16 and over from local schools and colleges will be welcomed to campus for our Creative Tech Taster Day , led by Tara Collingwoode-Williams and featuring a series of workshops.
It’s all part of our wider commitment to raising educational attainment locally, being a good neighbour and staying actively connected to our community.
Our work with local schools and colleges is extensive.
It’s all part of our wider commitment to being a good neighbour and staying actively connected to our community.
Through our Civic University Agreement, we’re working with local partners to support creative learning and skills — and to try to make a positive difference, close to home.
Our Civic University Agreement also commits us to working with local partners to support creative learning and skills and prepare learners for the changing world of education and work that they will face in the twenty first century.
Above all we try to make a positive difference, close to home.
From promoting coding confidence in young people to building creative computing pathways, we’re proud to support Lewisham’s future.
Find out more about our Civic University Agreement: gold.ac.uk/community/civic/cua
Published: 13 Aug 2025
Lecturer
Learn more about the programmes in computing , our research, and how our unique teaching style lets students develop their creative potential while learning solid computing skills.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/music-and-memories-:
Different features of music evoke different types of memories, with softer acoustic music bringing back unique and vivid memories, while more upbeat, lively tracks lead to exciting and social memories, new research from Goldsmiths shows.
The findings revealed that more acoustic music with lower energy such as re:stacks by Bon Iver and Claire de Lune by Claude Debussy is associated with evoking more vivid, unique and important memories.
While more energetic music with lower acousticness such as Trap Queen by Fetty Wap and When Doves Cry by Prince is associated with excitement, amusement and more social memories.
The study led by Safiyyah Nawaz and Dr Diana Omigie at Goldsmiths Music, Mind and Brain research group helps deepen our understanding of how music relates to personal memories and may have applications when considering how to use music in care settings for people with memory impairments.
Participants were asked to self-select a particular song that they associate with a personal memory, and to describe that memory.
They were also presented with songs that featured in the Billboard Top 100 charts when they were aged between nine and nineteen, one for each year, and asked if any of these sparked memories.
If so, they were asked about characteristics of the memory, such as how vividly they recalled it, how unique and important the particular memory is to them, as well as the emotions they associated with the memory, at the time it originally occurred.
Uniquely participants were given a wide range of different emotions to select from to describe how the autobiographical memory, spurred by the music, felt at the time it happened – rather than selecting on scales of how positive/negative or calming/exciting the memory was.
This was important to capture the nuances of people’s experiences.
Over 1400 musical memories were collected from 233 participants and then analysed.
The features of the songs were analysed using data from Spotify’s API (application programming interface), which categorised songs by features such as danceability, loudness or acousticness.
Using statistical analysis, the researchers determined whether any particular qualities of the songs were strongly associated with certain qualities of the memories they evoked.
The most significant findings were connected with the energeticness and acousticness of songs.
Safiyyah Nawaz explained, “We all know of the experience of hearing a song and being transported back in time to a vivid memory associated with that song; as it turns out, the properties of the music itself – characteristics like acousticness, loudness and energy – relate to the emotional and phenomenological qualities of the same musical memories.”
Higher acousticness was associated with emotional memories like calmness, romance, sadness and adoration.
Significantly, this does not mean that higher acousticness and lower energy correlates only with negative emotions and higher energy with positive emotions, as acousticness triggered memories with a wide range of emotional states, a mixture of positive and negative.
Interestingly, music with a higher level of energy was associated with faster retrieval and greater likelihood of evoking memories, meaning that energeticness of music may influence the cognitive mechanisms underlying memory retrieval.
Among many interesting findings, we discovered that more acoustic songs were associated with memories that were more vivid, unique, and characterised by complex emotions like romance and adoration, whereas louder, more energetic songs were linked to social, exciting, high-energy memories that were recalled faster.
Safiyyah Nawaz, PhD Student, Psychology and Associate Lecturer
The memories associated with the self-selected songs tended to be more specific, vivid, positive and important than those associated with the popular songs from the Billboard Top 100.
Whether a song is familiar or has personal significance - alongside the musical features of the song - is also a highly influential factor in the ways in which memories are recalled and described.
“Our in-depth analysis showed that it’s not just the musical features that influence memory, but also how much a person likes a song and how familiar it is to them.
We hope future research will explore how musical elements interact with such personal elements to bring about the deep and meaningful memories that people experience in everyday life,” Dr Diana Omigie explained.
The research is published in the journal PLOS One .
The team are now building an online archive of music memories, Memory Records, which already comprises over 200 memories and music associated with them.
“Some of the memories analysed in this project—shared with the consent of participants—are available to read now.
We aim to expand the archive beyond the predominantly Western samples that have traditionally shaped psychology research,” Safiyyah added.
Published: 21 Aug 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/responsible-ai-report:
How public sector organisations navigate the opportunities and challenges of artificial intelligence (AI) was the basis for this major Arts Council England (ACE) report.
Focusing on Arts Council England’s use of AI responsibly in its work, Dr Murphy is embedded as a Responsible AI Fellow as part of the AHRC’s BRAID programme which aims to integrate arts and humanities research and expertise into decision making on responsible uses for the technology.
The report involved surveying ACE staff to understand sentiments towards, experiences and existing knowledge of AI tools.
Policies governing Generative AI and a public statement about the use of AI in the grant making process have been among the report’s outcomes.
An AI Risk List on the appropriate use for different tools, and the GDPR compliance of different AI platforms have also resulted along with five pilot projects for potential applications of AI.
This major organisation-wide project has created a solid foundation of Responsible AI Policies and Practices that will allow the organisation to better serve the cultural sector.
Dr Oonagh Murphy, Senior Lecturer in Digital Culture and Society
Dr Murphy added, "This project allowed me to develop and deliver a proactive, futures focussed, model of policy development that utilises collaboration and consultation as a mechanism to build novel policy that leverages existing domain expertise."
Acknowledging that there’s no one-size-fits-all approach, a Responsible AI Practical Toolkit has also been produced to support other Public Sector Bodies and Creative and Cultural Organisations.
The toolkit contains seven guides and aims to offer a framework for helping organisations that want to create their own responsible AI policies and practices.
Dr Oonagh Murphy said, “With the focus on the hype about potential future dystopia, a lot of organisations are blind to the existing use of AI technologies in their organisations.
People may be using AI tools without even knowing they are using AI.
The toolkit is an accessible way for any organisation to begin to develop their own thinking about AI technologies and what it means for the work they do."
This work is an output of a Bridging Responsible AI Divides (BRAID) Fellowship, a partnership between Arts Council England and Dr Oonagh Murphy and is funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
Through the BRAID programme, Dr Oonagh Murphy, Turing Fellow and Senior Lecturer in Digital Culture and Society at Goldsmiths, University of London is working as an embedded Responsible AI Fellow at Arts Council England from May 2024 - October 2025.
Published: 19 Aug 2025
Senior Lecturer in Digital Culture and Society

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/deptford-town-hall-statues-reimagined:
Resistance, research and representation.
Community, creativity and care combine to work towards reinterpreting one of Goldsmiths’ most contested spaces.
Deptford Town Hall’s grand façade—with its ship-like form and carved imperial figures—has long stood as a visible reminder of Britain’s maritime power and colonial violence.
For many, these statues still symbolise the harms that have yet to be fully reckoned with.
The imposing exterior of Deptford Town Hall, long a reminder of empire, now a canvas for dialogue and transformation led by students and local young people
Today, the Deptford Town Hall statues project does not claim resolution but marks a step in an ongoing process.
Shaped by student protest and community collaboration, three new commissions invite alternative ways of seeing, remembering, and imagining this space.
From protest to practice: the GARA legacy
Goldsmiths’ Deptford Town Hall Statues Project draws directly on the legacy of the 137-day occupation of the building by Goldsmiths Anti-Racist Action (GARA) in 2019.
The ship-like form and carved statues of Deptford Town Hall stand as symbols of Britain’s maritime past and ongoing conversations about history and representation.
Students took over the space to demand institutional change and racial justice.
They asked the university to look again—at its history, at its curriculum, and at the harm embedded in its walls.
The project is part of Goldsmiths’ broader Civic Catalysts initiative, a public-facing programme that supports community-led cultural and civic action across Lewisham and south-east London.
The three new commissions are a direct response to the protest and include two creative commissions worth £8,000 each and one research commission worth £2,000.
All three bring together art, research and local young people to transform and reinterpret contested spaces and objects through collaboration, care, and imagination.
In this first commission, Deptford People’s Heritage Museum , a Black led ‘museum without walls’ in Deptford, are working with artist Dele Adeyemo and local young people to consider how the built environment  symbolises imperial power and resistance.
The group will map histories of the Deptford Town Hall statues, as well as practices of Black artistry and resistance, to build what Walter Rodney calls a ’history of the present’.
The group will draw on what Richard Iton calls ‘the Black Fantastic’, exploring Black radical artistic practices through clay modelling, 3D scanning, and sound design to document and commemorate their own experiences of injustice, and struggle as well as imagination and Black joy in the local area.
They will create a digital streetscape —combining immersive technology with collaborative storytelling—offering new ways of experiencing and reinterpreting the building and its legacies, generating new monuments and meanings for Deptford Town Hall.
Colonial history still lives with us in the present – in the buildings and in many other aspects of our lives.
We want to speak back to the history of Deptford Town Hall and think about how we have occupied space in the past, present and future.
This is an act of reclaiming space and agency."
Deptford People’s Heritage Museum
At the heart of the second creative commission is Alchemy , Goldsmiths’ award-winning creative education programme for young people aged 13–20, who all live in the local area.
Members of Alchemy gather at the piano in Deptford Town Hall, exploring heritage and healing through creative expression.
Developed in collaboration with artists, educators and local community, Alchemy uses spoken word, rap, poetry, and visual storytelling to explore race, identity and belonging.
It is both a space of creative expression and a platform for civic power.
This commission is co-created by Alchemy participants, who identified the emotional toll of the “white gaze”—how it lingers in public statues, in curricula, and in the built environment.
Together, they’re responding with spoken word, music, performance and film that reclaim space, identity and voice.
These statues remind us how trauma passes down through generations—and how it’s still with us, on our shoulders.”
Participant, Alchemy project
Young people from Alchemy, our award-winning creative arts project for local young people work at the piano in Deptford Town Hall Chamber
Postgraduate researcher Yusuf Thomas (MA Creative & Cultural Entrepreneurship) is undertaking the third commission—a research-led inquiry into the histories that haunt and animate Deptford Town Hall.
Drawing on institutional archives, oral histories, and GARA’s own protest materials, Yusuf’s work will inform the wider project—across digital and print platforms— exploring the history of interventions around the building and its statues.
The Deptford Town Hall statues project marks a moment of reflection and response bringing together the insight of student protest, the power of creative expression, and the knowledge held by communities.
It has only been possible thanks to the courage of Goldsmiths Anti-Racist Action (GARA); the leadership of the Race Justice Strategy Board; and the many artists, researchers, young people and local partners who have contributed their time, care and imagination.
Together, they’ve helped shape a project that seeks to open up a space for dialogue, dignity, and change.
Find out more about Deptford Town Hall and its statues
Published: 11 Aug 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/futures-of-education:
Goldsmiths has a long-standing commitment to social justice, critical education, and youth participation, values that are deeply embedded in our research and teaching.
From student-led activism to global partnerships, the university continues to support work that challenges inequality and empowers communities.
This summer, we've been realising that commitment through a youth-led initiative in Manila, with young organisers from across South and Southeast Asia coming together to shape the future of education in crisis-affected regions.
“We’re not just learning — we’re shaping the future.” A moment from the Futures of Education workshop, led by Dr Chris Millora, where youth leaders explored how research can drive change.
Co-led by Dr Chris Millora, Lecturer in Educational Studies, the project supports youth organisers to reimagine education in the face of climate change, conflict, and displacement.
The Youth Workshop on the Futures of Education in South and Southeast Asia, brought together youth leaders from the Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Timor Leste, and Sri Lanka.
The participants are part of grassroots organisations in their countries, including the Network for Education Watch Indonesia, the Civil Society Education Partnership Timor Leste and the University of Sto.
Tomas Student Teachers’ Association in the Philippines.
Young leaders from across South and Southeast Asia come together to collaborate on shared visions and to shape a more inclusive future for education in the region.
Over three days, participants shared insights from their local contexts, explored the role of education in responding to emergencies, and co-developed a Call to Action for more inclusive and resilient education systems.
The workshop is part of a wider project funded through Goldsmiths’ Official Development Assistance (ODA) scheme, which supports research that contributes to sustainable development and global equity.
Delivered in partnership with the Global Campaign for Education (GCE), E-Net Philippines and Asia South Pacific Association for Basic and Adult Education (ASPBAE) the project builds on Dr Millora’s long-standing research into youth activism and literacies.
Youth participants collaborate on drafting a regional Call to Action, identifying urgent threats and opportunities for the future of education in emergencies.
This work is deeply personal to me.
I grew up in a region where education is often disrupted by typhoons, displacement, and political unrest.
It is often young people, despite all the challenge they face, who organise, lead, and imagine better futures."
Dr Chris Millora, MA Social Justice in Education
"This workshop is about giving them the space and support to do just that and facilitate cross-cultural learning across youths in the region," continued Dr Millora.
The programme included creative workshops, collaborative sessions, panel discussion with youth advocates, and field visits.
The visit included a trip to the Philippines’ Technical Education and Skills Development Authority where participants saw firsthand the country’s effort in training its young people to be equipped with 21st century skills.
“Seeing these programmes in action helped us imagine what inclusive, skills-based education could look like in our own communities.” — a moment from the Futures of Education field trip.
This workshop felt like a manual for how to ensure young people’s roles and contributions — combining their knowledge and lived experiences — can truly transform the future of education to be more resilient, impactful, and relevant.“
Anabella Sabilah, Network for Education Watch, Indonesia.
Participants also explored intergenerational learning and youth engagement in policymaking.
The workshop culminated in the drafting of a Call to Action for the Future of Education in Emergencies, providing a blueprint for influencing education policy in crisis-affected areas in the region.
Representing Sri Lanka at this workshop was a turning point for me.
It opened my eyes to how young people across the region are tackling similar challenges in education — and how powerful our voices can be when we come together.
I return home with new ideas, greater confidence, and a strong belief that youth must be at the heart of shaping the future of education.”
Lahiru Wijesinghe, Coalition for Educational Development (CED), Sri Lanka
Following the workshop, the participants will be meeting online to finalise their Call to Action, get feedback from their constituency and co-create next steps.
They’ll also take part in follow-up sessions to track progress and explore opportunities for further collaboration, advocacy, and learning .
Explore how global politics, education, and activism intersect — and how you can be part of shaping the future.
Learn more about the MA Social Justice in Education at Goldsmiths.
Published: 1 Aug 2025
Lecturer in Education, Head of Programme, MA Social Justice in Education

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/society-of-authors-awards:
Graduates John Lyons and Sophia Georghiou and Associate Lecturer Dr Karen McCarthy Woolf have each been recognised for their contributions to poetry.
The annual Society of Authors’ Awards recognise the best and most promising literary voices of the year.
The inclusion of Goldsmiths alumni and staff among the prize winners is testament to Goldsmiths leading role in creativity and learning.
Their recognition highlights the outstanding creativity and influence of Goldsmiths students, staff, and alumni in the literary field, reaffirming Goldsmiths as a place where creative talent is nurtured, celebrated, and empowered to flourish.
The Eric Gregory Awards are presented for a collection of poems by a poet under 30.
Recent MA Creative and Life Writing graduate Sophia Georghiou has been awarded an Eric Gregory Award and £4,725 for her poetry collection Gloria Trillo.
I’m honoured to have been selected for an Eric Gregory Award, particularly for Gloria Trillo, an unpublished collection that has been close to my heart for many years.
Sophia Georghiou, MA Creative and Life Writing graduate
“Much of this work was developed during my MA in Creative and Life Writing at Goldsmiths, where I had the privilege of being tutored by Richard Scott and Jack Underwood.
This recognition feels incredibly encouraging and I’m looking forward to sharing Gloria more widely,” said Sophia Georghiou.
The Cholmondeley Awards are awarded for contributions to poetry.
John Lyons, a Goldsmiths graduate, has received a 2025 Cholmondeley Award, which comes with a £1,680 prize.
Born in Trinidad and Tobago, John studied at Goldsmiths from 1959 to 1964 and has published eight volumes of poetry alongside a distinguished career in visual arts and teaching.
Dr Karen McCarthy Woolf, Associate Lecturer in English and Creative Writing, was also named a Cholmondeley Award winner and awarded £1,680.
A Fulbright Scholar and editor of seven anthologies, her recent verse novel Top Doll has been shortlisted for both the TS Eliot and Jhalak Prizes.
Her next collection, Unsafe, will be published by Bloomsbury in 2026.
I was surprised and delighted to win a Cholmondeley Award.
The prize doesn't just take a snapshot in time by focusing on a single book but looks across a writer's whole body of work – there's something very special in being acknowledged by one's peers – and to join a distinguished roster of past recipients that includes Seamus Heaney, Linton Kwesi Johnson and Derek Walcott.
Dr Karen McCarthy Woolf, Associate Lecturer in English and Creative Writing
Published: 29 Jul 2025
Lecturer in Creative Writing
Senior Lecturer in Creative Writing

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/aimhigher-award:
Goldsmiths, University of London has been awarded Higher Education Institution of the Year at the Aimhigher London Practitioner Awards.
Chloe Young and Christabel Yeboah from the Student Success team with the Institution of the Year Award 2025
Aimhigher London is a network of educational partners (schools, colleges, universities, and Virtual schools) which works collaboratively to support young people to make informed choices and achieve successful outcomes.
The Higher Education Institution of the Year Award recognises significant and sustained commitment and contributions to the work of Aimhigher London.
The award was presented at a ceremony at the University of Roehampton and recognises the outstanding contributions of the Student Success team at Goldsmiths over the past academic year.
The team were commended for their consistent, meaningful support across a wide range of outreach and engagement activities.
Student Success colleagues are actively involved in Aimhigher London working groups including the Disability Working Group and the Looked After Children Working Group, which shares learning on how to improve access to higher education for students with experience of being in care or of being an unaccompanied asylum seeker.
They have also facilitated campus visits as part of Aimhigher’s Finding Futures Programme , with around 90 local young people attending across multiple school visits, and participated in and presented at sector conferences, with Goldsmiths hosting this year’s Removing Barriers, Forging Paths conference exploring intersectional approaches to support students with a disability.
Read more about widening participation work at Goldsmiths
Published: 18 Jul 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/braid-demonstrator-projects:
Professor Marco Gillies and Dr Dan McQuillan from the Department of Computing are partners on two of the three BRAID (Bridging Responsible AI Divide) demonstrator projects.
The BRAID programme, launched in 2022, is a national programme aiming to integrate research from the arts and humanities more fully into the conversation around developing the responsible use of AI.
It represents a £15.9 million investment funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), running from 2022-2028.
The three BRAID-funded projects include looking into equitable futures for the live music sector, creating immersive art experiences through AI and exploring sustainability with AI.
Professor Marco Gillies joins a multi-institutional team led by the University of Nottingham exploring the responsible use of AI in the creation, archiving, reactivation and conservation of artworks.
This project will investigate the responsible use of AI when working with artworks and their archives, reactivating artworks (performing or exhibiting them again), and documenting responses.
The arts and humanities have a lot to give when it comes to considering the ethical and responsible uses of AI.
Professor Marco Gillies, Department of Computing
For their part of the project, Professor Gillies and PhD student Clarice Hilton will work with disabled dancers using technologies which focus on the body, such as VR and motion capture.
These immersive technologies often have normative understandings of the body, meaning they are not inclusive.
As well as creating interactive dance performance using technology, technologists and dancers will collaborate to develop methodologies of care, to support disabled dancers when using AI in their practice, both with the use of technology itself but also with the emotional challenges this might present.
Collaborating with disabled dancers, and learning from their embodied experiences, the project will critique the limitations and challenges of current technologies which interact with the body and inform new technologies.
Professor Gillies added, “Developing methodologies of care is at the core of our research, to support the dancers both technologically and emotionally when integrating AI into their performance.”
Dr Dan McQuillan joins the team of academics led by Bath Spa University investigating the impact of AI on the environment, and how AI tools could be used to support sustainability.
Against the backdrop of a rapidly-developing ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) landscape, the use of AI to address sustainability brings with it both potential risks and benefits.
The environmental impact of AI technology itself needs to be better understood.
The interdisciplinary approach will build in perspectives and methods from arts and humanities, which have often been missing from the discussions around responsible AI and sustainability.
Dr Dan McQuillan said, "AI data centres are set to spread like a rash across the UK, and yet we don’t know how to measure its environmental impacts.
This project will apply critical methods and creative practices to throw open the question of assessing AI’s complex relationship to environment and climate.
Dr Dan McQuillan, Department of Computing
“In the process, and by combining the humanities, arts, critical theory and green coding, the project will help to improve the available tools while affirming the importance of social and cultural values alongside technical standards.
AI is a matter of carbon emissions and electricity use as well as a set of algorithms.
This project will help to fill a vital gap in knowing how to measure its effects."
Published: 16 Jul 2025
Professor / Academic Director of TaLIC
Lecturer in Creative & Social Computing

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/ux-design-awards-nominations:
Projects created by MSc User Experience Engineering students and a graduate have been nominated for the New Talent category.
Three projects from the current cohort of MSc User Experience Engineering students have been nominated in the New Talent category of the Autumn 2025 UX Design Awards .
Anamol Rajbhandari, a 2023 graduate of the MSc User Experience Engineering programme, is also amongst the nominees in the New Talent category.
The three projects were developed as part of the Applied UX Topics and Guest Lectures module, a practice-led module that guides students through a real-world UX design process and which culminates in submissions to the awards.
Dr Rabail Tahir, Lecturer in UX Engineering in the Department of Computing, said, “In our Applied UX Topics and Guest Lectures module, students work in teams to develop socially impactful design concepts in response to real challenges, guided by weekly industry guest speakers and hands-on seminar sessions.
Working on these submissions gives students a true-to-life experience of UX practice, following a complete design process from identifying user needs to prototyping, testing, and refinement.”
Team: Evelyn Chen, Shirley Hsieh, Qinlin Yin, Jiaqi Dong, YiChing Chen, Caroline Peng
Pawfect is an AI-powered pet adoption platform which matches shelter animals with prospective adopters based on behavioural patterns and personality compatibility.
Team: Hanting Zhao, Muhua Qin, Yijin Zhang, Yitong Mo, Yushi Sun, Yu Hu
Team: Maysan Nirlo, Aarti Sapkal, Mihran Siddiqui, Joelson Leal, Annie Pinson, Sanjana Shah
ReSearch AI is an app that delivers bite-sized insights from research papers in a scrollable format, transforming research discovery through micro-learning.
Dr Rabail Tahir added, "The UX Design Awards are one of the few international competitions dedicated specifically to user experience, with a strong emphasis on real-world impact."
The submission is not just an academic exercise; it results in work that is both competition-ready and portfolio-ready.
The process also exposes students to the realities of the UX profession: collaborating in teams, managing group dynamics, navigating ambiguity, and iterating under pressure.
It’s excellent preparation for the kinds of challenges they’ll face in real-world UX roles.
Dr Rabail Tahir, Lecturer in UX Engineering
Anamol has been nominated for his community-focused project, Finding People .
The app helps locate missing people by mobilising volunteers, turning their phones into search tools.
It allows users to log sightings of missing persons and join location-based missions.
Anamol came up with the idea for Finding People during his graduate studies at Goldsmiths.
My time at Goldsmiths was very hands-on and research-based, which trained me to approach problems by deeply understanding human behaviour.
Anamol Rajbhandari, MSc User Experience Engineering graduate
Anamol said, “Unlike many courses that just teach standard design thinking frameworks, our programme focused on fundamental principles and real user needs.
We even used tools like EEG headsets and eye-tracking in the UX lab.
That focus on understanding people, not just pushing pixels, became almost instinctive for me and directly influenced Finding People.”
Public voting for the Public Choice Awards runs from 9 July to 22 August.
Members of the public can vote on the UX Design Awards site .
The winners will be announced on 3 September 2025.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/neurolive-study:
A new study has revealed that watching live performances in a group setting impacts brain activity, with performers breaking the fourth wall especially causing synchrony.
Seke Chimutengwende and Stephanie McMann in Detective Work.
Credit: Hugo Glendinning
A study published in iScience has captured the impact of watching live performance in a group on the brain.
When people watched a live contemporary dance performance, their brainwaves synced up, signaling shared focus and attention.
But that synchrony dropped when the same performance was viewed alone on video.
The study is part of the NEUROLIVE project, a collaboration between scientists and artists at Goldsmiths, University of London, University College London , the Max Planck Institute for Empirical Aesthetics and Siobhan Davies Studios .
It is a 5-year £1.6m European Research Council funded interdisciplinary project investigating the question of what makes live performances special.
Professor Jamie Ward from the Department of Computing, who led the work on wearable technology, Haeeun Lee, Associate Lecturer in the Department of Psychology, and Sonia Abad-Hernando, Post doctoral researcher in Pscyhology, are part of the team of authors.
Professor Ward’s dual background in wearable technology and theatre inspired many of the technical innovations used in the NEUROLIVE project.
During a performance of contemporary dance piece ‘Detective Work’, choreographed by Seke Chimutengwende in collaboration with dance artist Stephanie McMann, electroencephalogram (EEG) headsets were used to track the brainwaves of 59 audience members.
The brain synchrony was then compared with other participants who watched a recording of the same piece in the cinema with others, or alone in a lab.
The uniqueness of this project is its success at combining performance art with neuroscience and technology – and generating valuable contributions towards all three areas.
Professor Jamie Ward
During the live shows, audience members’ brains synced in the Delta band – a range of slow frequency brainwaves typically associated with mind-wandering and social processing.
When the performers made direct eye contact with the crowd, the synchrony was especially strong.
Watching the recorded performance with others in a cinema still triggered brain synchrony, but for those watching alone in a lab, the synchrony weakened.
This suggests that sharing the experience with others, or “social liveness,” may be as important as the performance itself.
The research team fit a participant with an EEG cap before the performance.
The equipment monitors brainwave patterns to understand how live performances affect audience members.
“The fact that we find synchrony in the Delta band links the experience of live dance to the idea that performing arts are social art forms,” says project lead Dr Guido Orgs, Associate Professor of Cognitive Neuroscience at University College London.
“They are created by performers and an audience who are in the same space at the same time.”
To investigate whether moments of heightened engagement could be predicted, the researchers asked choreographer Seke Chimutengwende which scenes he expected to be most engaging.
Synchrony peaked at nearly every moment he had predicted.
“There’s so much knowledge contained in live performance,” says co-author Matthias Sperling, artistic director and researcher at NEUROLIVE.
“The artists are experts in liveness, and so are the audience.
This research offers a new way to tell stories about what’s happening in that rich, complex environment, using science to open a different window into those shared experiences.”
Published: 10 Jul 2025
Head of School, Computing

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/partnership-with-hitachi-europe-ltd:
Hitachi Europe Ltd and Goldsmiths, University of London’s partnership has revealed how embedding behavioural change techniques into journey planning apps can influence users to make more sustainable transport decisions.
The research resulted from a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) - a collaboration between a business and a university or research organisation, which applies knowledge from the academic partner in the business context to solve real-world challenges.
Working on delivering sustainable mobility solutions linked to transport, Hitachi Europe Ltd were keen to explore the potential to influence travel behaviours with the aim of reducing emissions.
The KTP drew on behavioural science expertise from Goldsmiths.
Jonathan Freeman, Professor in the Department of Psychology and KTP lead, brought his experience as the Director of i2 media research - a strategy and research consultancy specialising in how people interact with technology.
The Goldsmiths-Hitachi partnership focused on finding the answer to a critical question – how behaviour change techniques and time pressures influence different groups of users when selecting journey routes.
Through the development of a prototype journey planning app which simulated real-world scenarios, the research revealed which interventions impact users’ choices when lower-carbon routes are available.
The app used proven behaviour change techniques – including prompts, goal-setting, feedback, and social messaging – to influence users’ decisions in real time.
The findings, published in a peer-reviewed journal, highlighted that apps enhanced with behavioural change techniques have the potential to promote sustainable travel.
The effects are more pronounced when the techniques are tailored towards different segments of users; users with different habits and attitudes respond in different ways.
Under pressure, users are less likely to choose greener options, unless they are clearly sign-posted and easy to act on.
This suggests that human centred digital design of apps, considering user mindset and context, is more effective than a one-size-fits-all approach.
Our partnership with Hitachi Europe Ltd comes close to the perfect illustration of what a KTP can offer in terms of benefits both for the business partner, Goldsmiths, and the KTP Associate.
Professor Jonathan Freeman, Goldsmiths KTP lead
“The KTP’s primary goal was establishing a centre of expertise in psychologically rooted approaches to Behaviour Change within Hitachi Europe R&D.
This has had demonstrable impacts, from contributing to contract wins, collaborative work with Hitachi wholly owned subsidiaries, and the development of new corporate collaborations arising from a showcase of the KTP's results to Hitachi Executives at the Hitachi R&D HQ in Kokubunji, Tokyo.
"There have also been excellent academic research results through peer reviewed papers published in high impact journals, co-authored by Goldsmiths and Hitachi colleagues,” Professor Freeman said.
The KTP Associate, Emma Maier, was based with Hitachi Europe for two years, the duration of the project.
The power of this project was embedding behavioural science into the type of journey planning tool that people already use every day.
Emma Maier, KTP Associate
“By meeting users where they are, in the flow of their normal travel planning and by understanding their motivations and context, we were able to design effective ways to support more sustainable choices.”
The project aligns with Hitachi’s broader commitment to sustainable mobility.
In 2024 Hitachi announced that it became Transport for Wales’ Mobility as a Service (MaaS) partner, marking the beginning of a five-year initiative to connect public transport journeys across Wales through a single app.
Andrew Broadbent, the Company Supervisor for the KTP at Hitachi Europe Ltd, said, “It has been a pleasure to collaborate and learn from the experience Goldsmiths and i2media has of accelerating digital transformation in different sectors and to apply this to Sustainable Mobility.
"Expanding Hitachi’s expertise in digital and operational technology with a psychological based approach providing insights about why people behave as they do and the opportunities to influence future behaviours has complemented and enhanced both our short-term research and innovation activities and influences our long-term plans for new systems and platforms to enable sustainable and digitally optimised Smart Mobility across the world”.
This year marks the 50 th anniversary since Knowledge Transfer Partnerships began in 1975.
Funded by Innovate UK (part of the funding body UK Research and Innovation) and the partner business, a KTP provides support for a KTP Associate to work within the business to address a specific challenge and apply expertise gained through academic training.
The academic partner provides support and guidance to the Associate throughout.
Professor and Managing Director, i2 media research

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/melfield-gardens-intergeneration-living:
Goldsmiths and Phoenix Community Housing launch Melfield Gardens – an award-winning, intergenerational housing scheme in Lewisham that brings together students and residents aged 55+ in a new model for community living.
Lord Best (centre) marks the official opening of Melfield Gardens — the UK’s first intergenerational housing scheme of its kind — alongside residents and project partners from Phoenix Community Housing and Goldsmiths.
At a ribbon-cutting ceremony and reception, Deputy Vice-Chancellor Professor Annabel Kiernan delivered a speech welcoming the scheme as a “bold social idea” and a powerful example of what happens “when we do things differently.”
Melfield Gardens is the UK’s first intentionally designed intergenerational housing scheme developed by a housing association, and the first in Lewisham to be built to Passivhaus sustainability standards.
It includes 30 affordable homes for residents aged 55 and over, and two four-bedroom flats for Goldsmiths students.
In return for subsidised rent, student tenants commit to spending time with their neighbours — building relationships and supporting community activities.
Speaking at the event, Professor Kiernan said:
“This isn’t just a beautiful development — it’s a bold social idea.
A place where people at different stages of life share space, time, laughter, and stories.
A place where learning flows in all directions — not in lectures or seminars, but in cups of tea poured, questions asked, memories shared, and small acts of care that build something bigger.
Everyone making the move to Melfield Gardens is showing us what it means to stay curious, connected, and open to possibility.
This is what it looks like when we do things differently — and we couldn’t be prouder to be part of it.”
Professor Annabel Kiernan, Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Education & Student Experience
Professor Annabel Kiernan speaks at the launch of Melfield Gardens, praising the project as “a bold social idea” and a model for how community, care, and creativity can shape how we live.
Goldsmiths partnered with Phoenix to co-develop the model and support student engagement.
Prospective student tenants are being selected through a process led by Goldsmiths, with priority given to bursary and Equity Award recipients.
Applicants are also assessed for their interest in community engagement and their ability to contribute to a shared, supportive environment.
The first two student residents, Joquan Johnson (BA Music) and Alexander Morley (BA Applied Psychosocial and Psychotherapy Studies) have now moved in, with more planned to move in soon.
The Melfield Gardens development, designed to Passivhaus standards, combines energy-efficient design with a bold vision for community living in Lewisham
The Melfield Gardens model is designed not only to support social connection and wellbeing, but also to ease wider housing pressures.
Many residents have downsized from larger homes they no longer need.
In doing so, they help unlock a chain of housing opportunities — freeing up family-sized homes for those in overcrowded or temporary accommodation.
The ripple effect of these “chain lets” is an important part of how developments like this contribute to local housing needs.
The scheme has already won a Housing Design Award for its inclusive, sustainable architecture, designed by Levitt Bernstein.
Its energy-efficient Passivhaus construction is another first for Lewisham.
Passivhaus is a world-leading benchmark for sustainable building design, requiring extremely high levels of insulation, airtightness, and energy efficiency.
The result is lower energy bills, reduced carbon emissions, and homes that are comfortable year-round.
The project’s combination of environmental and social sustainability sets a new standard for how we think about urban housing and community development.
Phoenix Community Housing Chief Executive Denise Fowler said:
“The intergenerational nature of the scheme will support our residents' wellbeing and help them to thrive.
We’re excited to work with our residents to create a vibrant intergenerational community and make the most of this progressive scheme.”
Phoenix Community Housing is also a valued partner in the Goldsmiths Civic University Agreement , which brings together organisations across the borough to collaborate on shared priorities for Lewisham’s future — including housing, sustainability, and inclusive education.
Melfield Gardens reflects Goldsmiths’ longstanding commitment to creative approaches to education, student experience, civic engagement, and social justice in the local community.
It is the latest example of place-based collaboration between Goldsmiths and organisations across Lewisham — a borough with a proud legacy of doing things differently.
Find out more about the various student accommodation options at Goldsmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/victimcould:
President Donald Trump casts himself as the victim of imagined future injustices to create a sense of ‘victimcould’ and further his agenda, a new paper from a Goldsmiths academic argues.
'Donald Trump Signs The Pledge' by Michael Vadon is licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0.
To view a copy of this license, visit https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/?ref=openverse.
In a research article published in the European Journal of Cultural Studies , Dr Kat Higgins asks how the US leader has been able to portray himself as a victim before “laying the groundwork for a new political programme that will, as a matter of legislative priority, seek to economically, politically and culturally victimize the nation’s most vulnerable citizens”.
She suggests that Trump and his allies have used cultural techniques that strategically leverage “hypothetical injury” to confuse questions of present-day social and political vulnerability, a technique Dr Higgins terms “victimcould".
Victimcould is both a representational achievement and a justificatory logic.
As a representational achievement, it works similarly to simple victimhood: as a public claim to injury that accrues moral value to the claimant and animates protective, restorative and/or ameliorative practices on their behalf… The key difference, however, is that victimcould expresses this claim in a subjunctive mood
Dr Kat Higgins, Lecturer in Global Digital Politics
The open access article, From victimhood to victim could : Hypothetical injury and the ‘criminalization’ of Donald Trump adds : “ Victimcould is thus a kind of mediation that uses language and image to agitate imaginations of intolerable futures and weaponize them within the cultural politics of the present day; it invites us to imagine the world as if the things we fear could happen are, in fact, already happening.
“As a justificatory logic, then, the ultimate function of victimcould is to blur the distinction between what is probable and what is merely possible and to subjugate the former to the latter within the cultural politics of vulnerability that negotiates the legitimacy of far-right agendas.”
Drawing on concepts of vulnerability, where the far-right has coopted the injury suffered by other groups to regain a sense of power, Dr Higgins studied AI-generated images Mr Trump’s could-be arrest, which went viral more than six months before his actual arrest occurred in September 2023.
The article says: "Both sides of the illusory ‘aisle’ of US politics...
sought to capitalise on Trump’s criminal and civil cases: the Democrats by harnessing the stigma of criminality and weaponising it against Trump, the MAGA Republicans by pointing to the mounting pile of charges against Trump as supporting evidence for the larger mythology of Trump as ‘victim’ of malicious and conspiratorial wielding of state power."
Dr Higgins concludes that victimcould is “one of the most efficient of this emerging repertoire of far-right cultural methods.
It is also one of the ripest for resistance and disruption”.
Resisting the logic of victimcould thus requires insisting on the primacy of the actual over the hypothetical at every turn, attending (both representationally and politically) to the violences of the world still with us… It means finding ways to harness the subjunctivity of imagination not for the justification of social violence, but for the sustenance of hope.
Published: 8 Jul 2025
Lecturer in Global Digital Politics

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/bc-mexican-creative-leadership:
At a time when the challenges facing cultural institutions are complex and deeply felt, we believe leadership must do more than seek growth for its own sake.
Ten outstanding participants—chosen from over 400 applicants—joined us for a week of reflection, connection, and reimagining leadership for the 21st century.
Shouldn’t leadership be about taking time to reflect, connect, and commit to change that matters?
That belief found expression through a partnership with the British Council, as we welcomed ten cultural changemakers from across Mexico for a week-long residency.
These ten outstanding participants were selected from a competitive pool of over 400 applicants, representing a diverse cross-section of Mexico’s cultural and creative sectors.
What emerged was a shared journey of learning, care, and reimagining what leadership could look like rooted in sustainability, equity, and purpose.
Hosted by Goldsmiths, the programme focuses not on “grow, grow, grow,” but on building sustainable, responsible practices grounded in community impact.
The visiting leaders—directors, founders, public servants, and artists—came seeking new ways to lead amidst complexity.
They left with renewed energy, practical tools, and a deeper understanding of governance, equity, and care.
Participants took in a number of Creative Leadership Programme sessions at Goldsmiths, exploring values-led leadership through shared experience.
As Siân Prime, Academic Lead for Enterprise at Goldsmiths explains:
“At Goldsmiths, we believe creative leadership is about more than strategy and growth—it’s about courage, care and the capacity to lead through complexity."
This programme offers cultural leaders a rare space where they can pause and reimagine what sustainable, values-led leadership can look like in their own communities.
We don’t teach a one-size-fits-all model—we co-create an experience rooted in justice, purpose and imagination."
Siân Prime, Academic Lead for Enterprise
One of the most powerful moments of the residency came on day two, following a session on embodied leadership led by Jenny Sealey, Adrian De La Court with Siân Prime then led exercises which enabled participants to feel and show where they stood on lines of risk, purpose and financial returns.
Allowing participants to show, not speak to these crucial elements brought a new truth to the group.
This led to in-depth conversation facilitated by Nicola Turner on how to move this instinctive position to new, healthier sustainable ways of leading.
Participants were then asked to create their own sign name – which led to descriptions of themselves as cenotes, waterfalls, connecters, and other symbols of resilience, renewal and interconnectedness.
One wrote:
“What felt like isolated trees are, in fact, part of a larger, connected ecosystem.”
A cenote—a natural freshwater sinkhole—symbolises depth, clarity, renewal, and the hidden currents beneath our conscious minds.
Cenotes, unique to the Yucatán Peninsula, are freshwater sinkholes formed by the collapse of limestone bedrock, revealing hidden pools below.
Sacred to the Maya, they represent life, depth, and spiritual connection.
For one participant, the programme was just that—a reflective space beneath the surface of daily life:
“Like a cenote, this week offered stillness and clarity.
I found the source again.”
Another reflected:
“I now walk away not only with tools and connections, but with a renewed sense of purpose rooted in love, fairness, and shared imagination.”
This metaphor wasn’t incidental.
It mirrored the programme’s deeper values: that true leadership isn’t linear or extractive—it flows, adapts, and nourishes.
Participants in the ‘River of Learning’ embodied their positions on risk, purpose, and values—making the invisible visible through movement and space.
Many participants described the creative sector in Mexico as fragmented—yet full of untapped potential.
Over the week, sessions led by Goldsmiths faculty and UK cultural changemakers helped explore inclusive governance models, strategic storytelling, and climate-conscious innovation.
Goldsmiths’ distinctive approach—placing social justice, equity, and accessibility at the heart of leadership—shaped every element of the week.
Sessions covered Indigenous leadership, data ethics, decolonial policy, and sustainable cultural practices.
Participants left not only with ideas, but with intention.
Beyond learning, the programme built a vibrant international network.
Participants are already planning collaborations, city visits, and even screenings of each other’s work.
This is leadership as ecosystem—not hierarchy.
This programme is one of many ways Goldsmiths is rethinking what creative leadership looks like in the 21st century.
Not fast growth—but fair growth.
Not rigid plans—but flowing systems.
Not command and control—but courage and care.
Participants respond to a creative provocation as part of an embodied leadership exercise at Goldsmiths.
As the global challenges we face grow more complex, we need leaders who can imagine, listen, and lead differently.
That’s the kind of leadership Goldsmiths is proud to cultivate—across borders, sectors, and communities.
Learn more about Goldsmiths' Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship (ICCE) and its global programmes.
For more information on how we collaborate with, and support businesses and their leaders, go to our Business and Partnerships page .
Co-Head of Department, Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship and Academic Lead: Enterprise
Director, MA Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship and Director, SYNAPSE

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/remembering-peter-smith:
Colleagues in Psychology have been remembering Emeritus Professor Peter Smith, who recently passed away.
Peter joined Goldsmiths in 1998, quickly setting up for the Unit for School and Family Studies and was a key part of Goldsmiths’ recognition as a home for Developmental Psychology.
Peter was best known, of course, for his work on bullying (although we would be remiss to mention his work on Grandparenthood and Play).
He led international research projects, bringing together researchers from across the world to think about bullying.
The book ‘Bullying, Cyberbulling and Student Well-being in Schools’ that came as a result of the ESRC-funded Indian-European Network on Bullying and School Safety comprises authorship from over 10 different nations.
Peter’s dedication to a global perspective on developmental psychology is also demonstrated by his chairing of the ISSBD (International Society for the Study of Behavioural Development) Developing Country Fellowship (DCF) Program since 2009 – forming links with early career researchers in the Global South, and inviting many of those researchers to spend time at Goldsmiths, including as PhD students.
Alongside a long list of academic publications and successful and well-known books, Peter had many successes with PhD supervision, with many still active in academia, medicine, education and science communication.
Most recently, he was active in the position of Chair of Anti-Bullying Alliance, an organisation that he had collaborated with for many years – translating research into policy influence and practice.
He had been awarded the William Thierry Preyer award for Excellence in Research on Human Development in 2015, by the European Society for Developmental Psychology.
He was also awarded Fellow status by the British Psychological Society, the Association of Psychological Sciences, and the Academy of Social Sciences.
This week, he was due to due to collect a lifetime achievement award at the World Anti-Bullying Forum in Norway.
We will miss Peter for his generosity of time and willingness to share his work with early career researchers.
He used his voice to make sure that victims of bullying were not forgotten, and used his expertise to support others in developing interventions.
We hope to arrange a special event to commemorate Peter during Anti-Bullying Week in November 2025.
Published: 7 Jul 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/open-book-medway-film:
A new film chronicling the history of Medway’s working-class community marks Open Book’s ambitions for accessible filmmaking.
St Margaret's Church, Rainham.
Credit: David Anstiss / CC BY-SA 2.0
The widening participation initiative based at Goldsmiths, University of London provides free, open access classes and support that has helped hundreds of people to find places at university and in life.
Working with communities to tackle the barriers to entering university, Open Book has also worked side by side with people dealing with addiction and in prisons.
“It’s about laying the foundations and providing the structure that helps people to empower themselves,” said Open Book’s Director, Joe Baden OBE.
With a long-established role providing classes and support to people in Medway, the idea to produce a film informed and made by working-class people was a natural development.
It also chimed with the project's ambitions to enable working-class people to be equipped to tell their stories in their own way.
The community film project, made possible by a funding grant from Medway Council as part of the Medway Heritage Place programme, funded by The National Lottery Heritage Fund, captures memories of Medway's past and present, focusing on Medway’s post-war working-class history.
Introductory classes at Goldsmiths helped film makers gain experience and skills needed for making the film.
The finished film was screened at St.
Margaret’s Church in Rainham.
We want people from working-class backgrounds to be able to engage in telling their own stories.
This film gave the participants a brief taste of what is achievable and what is possible with filmmaking.
Joe Baden OBE, Director of Open Book
This marks the beginning of ambitions to expand Open Book, to widen access to education in filmmaking and to the film industry, which is known for being hard to break into for those from working-class backgrounds.
“We are currently collaborating with local partners, established during the Medway project, to explore joint working to create a legacy within the Medway Community.
As is true with all Goldsmiths Open Book endeavours, our aim is to promote a heritage of cultural, social, academic and economic equity,” Joe Baden added.
Published: 3 Jul 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/dr-carmen-yau-qa:
Global disability expert and advocate Dr Carmen Yau tells us about her career and research, and shares how this year's Pride in London will mark a new milestone for inclusivity and accessibility.
Dr Carmen Yau (Department of Social, Therapeutic and Community Studies, STaCS) was included in the Disability Power 100, compiled by The Shaw Trust
Volunteering and your work to make public events more accessible are important to you.
Is there an important message you are conveying about disability and belonging when you participate in this way?
People might wonder why I volunteer, after all I have a busy working life.
But I think it is important to contribute, and to make space to do that.
My volunteer work is not just service—it is an act of identity politics, a conscious assertion of presence and resistance within structures that often marginalise voices like mine.
It grounds my scholarship in lived realities and ensures my teaching remains authentic, politically engaged, and socially accountable.
I am the Head of Accessibility and Quiet Parade at Pride in London.
This year is an exciting milestone as we are organising the first ever Quiet Parade.
We are designing the event very purposefully for people who may be neurodivergent, people who need some spaces with less sensory stimulation and social interactions, or people who need a space for self-care and wellbeing.
We will be live screening the parade in an environment where people can enjoy it without potentially overwhelming crowds and noise.
People will listen through headphones and have different options of whether they’d like to tune into the broadcast from the parade, or different music and sound options.
There will also be a mindful crafting area, where people can create collective art, and the Wellbeing Research Unit from Goldsmiths will showcase a curated selection of recommended books related to wellbeing for the LGBTQ+ community.
I think there's a lot of barriers, particularly for disabled people, when it comes to accessibility, inclusivity and how people feel being welcomed.
It's not only about having an accessible venue, but how you design the whole event and the activities as a co-production with the disabled community and stakeholders.
You have to consider, does it accommodate people with all disabilities?
It’s necessary to think about what resources are needed to enable people to fully participate.
I’m working on developing a handbook for making mass events accessible and inclusive, so I hope to produce a useful resource for the future.
One of the key concepts I’ll promote is radical welcoming.
This involves moving toward a radical and respectful response to people with diverse abilities, identities, and lived experiences.
It would be ironic that someone who prizes access and inclusivity in daily life would not insist on these concepts being a staple of my academic research.
Along with meeting high ethical safeguards, the approach that I take to my research affirms the right of disabled people to be seen heard and represented on their own terms.
I've learned that impactful advocacy needs to be based in evidence.
What I'm trying to do is turn the emotions and voices of people who have been marginalised into evidence to make change.
Research is for me a method for collaborating with communities and tackling social problems.
After graduating in psychology, I worked as a case worker but I realised - especially after supporting children with rare diseases - that I had questions over structural and societal issues, so I decided to do a master's in social work.
It was enlightening and transformative for me, particularly a social work placement where I had the opportunity to work with domestic violence survivors.
Studying social work helped me to answer a lot of questions and it also put me in a position to challenge issues in life.
A good social worker today combines empathy, ethics, and technology literacy with strong professional reflexivity.
The professional judgement of a social worker is very different to other helping professionals.
Social work depends on the “use of self” and reflexivity to gain understanding on intersectionality and uphold anti-oppressive practice.
In an AI tech-driven world, social workers should balance human connection with innovation to promote ethical and inclusive support for individuals from diverse backgrounds.
My research focuses on disability and intersectionality.
One part of this is about barriers, about addressing daily challenges people face.
I also look at the root causes of structural oppression faced by disabled people, and I research decolonisation of the concept of disability.
For example, I’m giving a keynote at the Sexuality and Social Work conference in Ljubljana, called ‘From Stigma To Strength: Challenging Taboos and The Intersection of Disability and Sexual Empowerment’.
In the research landscape around disability, gender, sexuality, relationships and reproductive rights are underrepresented and under-researched.
One of the most embedded questions I deal with is around how disabled bodies are perceived in the sociocultural context, which is very pertinent to this topic.
My keynote will draw attention to the reality of the situation when it comes to how disabled people are perceived, giving an overview of the picture from East to West, but also consider possible solutions to current problems.
One theme I will explore is parenthood.
It’s part of the recipe for a new Londoner to have culture shock when you first move.
Through working at Goldsmiths, I’ve been able to recognise and embrace that being a Hong Kong immigrant is part of my identity, and also to appreciate how it has authentically shaped my value, vision, and mission.
I am now part of a leadership training programme called STELLARHE which is tailored for Black, Asian and ethnically diverse leaders in higher education aimed at ensuring that their qualities are respected and recognised.
The first benefit is expanding student’s horizons, creating more learning opportunities between both places.
In April, a group of doctoral students from Hong Kong PolyU came to visit Goldsmiths, and they had the opportunity to meet our doctoral students.
This is also about decolonising knowledge, so students can gain a deeper understanding of other cultures, and in this case of East Asian cultures.
We use the phrase ‘cultural humility’, which means understanding the culture of somebody else, but also being aware of how your own cultural background influences you and the power dynamics of different situations.
My students are very compassionate and engaged.
This is so crucial because teaching and learning is a co-production, I need students to ask questions so I can know where their interests lie or what they’re curious about.
So, I’m fortunate that my students are so engaged.
One of the reasons I love Goldsmiths is because of my colleagues.
They have been very supportive and understanding in facing front on the barriers and challenges that I face through disability, because of my gender, because of my background.
There are a lot of structural challenges, but my colleagues are always very empowering with the courage to have discussions about navigating them and looking for radical solutions.
My erotic storytelling project started in Hong Kong, where I wrote my erotica in Asian sociocultural context.
Moving to London, I felt voiceless, and it took me a long time to build the courage and energy to continue my storytelling project.
It is not easy to continue my storytelling across different sociocultural contexts as it takes time to learn how this cosmopolitan city would respond to my stories.
Being shortlisted is both an encouraging recognition and a meaningful sign to keep going.
It affirms the value of the work so far, while also highlighting how much more needs to be done to achieve genuine representation and inclusion of people from diverse backgrounds.
The library has become a haven for me.
It nurtures curiosity, supports rigorous inquiry, and provides a sense of belonging through access to knowledge that is both diverse and carefully curated.
For me and for my students, it remains one of the most essential and transformative spaces in the university.
Published: 2 Jul 2025
Lecturer in Social Work / CDP Convenor & Placement Co-ordinator
Research Lead for the Wellbeing Research Programme

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/vc-art-prize-2025:
The summer degree shows at Goldsmiths, University of London are now well and truly underway, offering a dynamic and diverse showcase of work by graduating students across a range of disciplines.
Published: 23 Jun 2025
As part of this annual celebration of emerging talent, the university is proud to announce the recipients of the Vice-Chancellor’s Art Prize 2025 —an accolade awarded to students whose work demonstrates exceptional creativity, critical insight, and artistic ambition.
We are pleased to announce this year’s prize-winners:
BA Fine Art
Sid Binding
Oyinloluwa Ilesanmi
Yoobin Lee
Zoe R Portela
BA Fine Art and History of Art
Juan Alejandre
Idris Carney
Whether witty or profound, all of this year’s prize winners have produced work that is deeply engaged with the world around them.
Their practices span a dazzling range of media and perspectives, reflecting the richness and diversity of our community here at Goldsmiths.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Frances Corner OBE praised the winners, saying:
"This prize celebrates not only artistic excellence but also the courage to question, provoke, and imagine differently.
Their practices span a dazzling range of media and perspectives, reflecting the richness and diversity of our community here at Goldsmiths."
Reflecting on her award, prize-winner Oyinloluwa Ilesanmi said:
"I’m delighted that my installation Views from Eden – Postcards to Humanity has been awarded a Vice-Chancellor’s Art Prize.
This installation is a series that invites exploration of various narratives encompassing innate mythological, ecological and cultural aspects of humanity’s increasingly distorted alignment with the natural world."
The degree shows continue throughout the summer across multiple venues on campus, and SE London, featuring painting, sculpture, video, performance, sound, and digital media.
Visitors are encouraged to explore the full range of student work both in person and online.
Zoe R Portela's Success Symposium: Bring Home the Bacon.
A witty and emotionally resonant live performance exploring identity, queerness, and cultural memory through voice, humour, and song.
Oyinloluwa Ilesanmi: Close-up of Views from Eden – Postcards to Humanity, a mythic and ecological installation reflecting on humanity’s shifting relationship with the natural world.
Sid Binding's sharp, humorous, and thoughtful piece explores nostalgia, digital culture, and the changing character of the internet in the age of Artificial Intelligence (AI).
Yoobin Lee's poetic textile installation delicately weaves memory, material, and the digital into a rich and textured visual language.
Idris Carney's striking sculptural installation uses recycled vape batteries to explore toxicity, value, and the tension between industrial waste and aesthetic form.
Juan Alejandre's contemplative multimedia installation meditates on memory, visibility, and erasure within urban and political landscapes.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/tate-exchange:
Goldsmiths Creative Technology students have been at the heart of a prestigious new digital arts residency, Tech, Tea + Exchange, at Tate Modern.
Digital arts academic staff, Jérémie Wenger, Robin Leverton, Nathan Bayliss at Tate Modern
Goldsmiths Creative Technology students have been at the heart of a prestigious new digital arts residency, Tech, Tea + Exchange, at Tate Modern this summer, collaborating with experts from AI company Anthropic, and curators at Tate as well as peers from University of the Arts London (UAL).
Tech, Tea + Exchange is an integral part of Tate’s Digital Intimacies programme , which explores the generative, emotive, and living relationship between humanity and technologies through a series of live experiences, performances, discussions, hands-on lab sessions, and a special supper club series.
Ranging from ancient myths to cutting-edge innovation, the programme is designed to reveal how artists have used technologies to expand our human experience, reimagine new worlds, help us process loss, and find companionship.
Fá Maria - PhD Candidate
The series is inspired by the exhibitions Electric Dreams and Ed Atkins and featured keynote talks by renowned artists in the digital art field Hito Steyerl and Lawrence Lek in conversation with Goldsmiths former Assastant Professor and author of The Black Technical Object, Ramin Amaro.
Over a month-long residency, 40 students worked both in the galleries and behind the scenes at Tate Britain and Tate Modern, reimagining the museum’s collections through experimental responses developed with generative AI.
Their work culminated in a public showcase at Tate Modern, where visitors were able to explore AI-generated artworks, immersive environments, and expanded writing practices.
Students were on hand to discuss their creative process and reflect on the evolving relationship between art, humans and machines.
“This project offered students a truly rare opportunity to engage their existing art practice with AI not just as a tool, but as a creative partner.”
Rachel Falconer, Head of Digital Arts
Important conversations about authorship, agency and ethics of AI
Each public event was packed, creating a vibrant atmosphere where curiosity, creativity and critical conversation flowed.
Visitors engaged with students as they shared work-in-progress shaped through dialogue with AI tools, sparking rich discussions around authorship, agency and the ethics of machine learning.
The events also gave students a rare platform to experiment with their art practice publicly, test ideas in real time, and connect their creative process with live audiences in one of the world’s leading art institutions.
“This project offered students a truly rare opportunity to engage their existing art practice with AI not just as a tool, but as a creative partner,” said Rachel Falconer, Head of Digital Arts at Goldsmiths and academic lead for the programme.
“Working in close dialogue with researchers, coders and curators has allowed our students to reflect critically and creatively on the possibilities—and limitations—of generative AI in art and expanded writing practices.
We’re so proud of what they’ve achieved and excited about where this might lead as the university continues to critically explore the connection between art practice and machines.”
PhD Candidate Lucy Strauss
Students took part in panel discussions, collaborative design workshops, and masterclasses with Anthropic staff where ethics and critical framing of AI were collaboratively framed, before creating new works and staging performances inspired by the Tate’s collections.
Societal impact
The residency also featured contributions from Goldsmiths staff, alumni and art practitioners including Jérémie Wenger, Robin Leverton, Nathan Bayliss, and Dr Daniel McQuillan, whose work on the ethics and societal impact of AI helped frame the wider conversations taking place during the project.
“Goldsmiths has a long history of experimentation and boundary-pushing in art,” added Rachel Falconer.
“This partnership with Tate and Anthropic continues that tradition, putting our students right at the centre of some of the most exciting—and urgent—questions in contemporary culture and art practice.”
Viola Lang and May Li (MFA Computational Arts)
Building on the momentum of these exchanges, the work developed during the residency will inform a curated exhibition later this year—offering a deeper reflection on the role of generative AI in contemporary creative practice and showcasing the students’ evolving ideas in a new public context.
Published: 19 Jun 2025
Lecturer / Goldsmiths Digital Project Manager

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/sage-10-year-impact-award:
Dr Zupic has received the award for his paper ‘Bibliometric Methods in Management and Organization.’
Now in its sixth year, the 10-Year Impact Awards recognise research in Sage journals with lasting influence.
The 2025 awards honour the most-cited papers published in Sage journals in 2014, meaning that the winning articles have received more citations over the past decade than any others published by global academic publisher Sage that year.
The winners this year are:
Dr Zupic is a Senior Lecturer in Entrepreneurship in the Institute of Management Studies (IMS).
When I wrote that paper as a PhD student, I never imagined it would be so widely read.
I'm truly glad that we've created something valuable for fellow researchers.
Dr Ivan Zupic, Senior Lecturer in Entrepreneurship, IMS
“Research impact in the social and behavioral sciences unfolds gradually, through complex and long-term processes that conventional metrics struggle to capture,” said Ziyad Marar, president of global publishing at Sage.
“The 10-Year Impact Awards attest to the enduring quality and lasting relevance of scholarship in fields often undervalued by short-term measures of success.
Being an independent publisher allows us to look beyond traditional metrics to broaden perspectives on how impact is recognized in those disciplines across the globe.”
Senior Lecturer in Entrepreneurship, Programme Co-Director, BSc Management with Pathways; BSc Business Management

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/scripps-howard-journalism-award:
An investigation by the Guardian US and Forensic Architecture has won a respected Scripps Howard Journalism Award for Excellence in Environmental Reporting.
An image of the plume from the refinery fire is situated within Forensic Architecture’s digital environment of the facility and surrounding area, accompanied by a timeline of events.
Image: Darnell Alboudoor (Forensic Architecture, 2024)
The investigation - ‘The Huge U.S.
Toxic Fire Shrouded in Secrecy’ - uncovers the events around a 2023 fire at the US’s third-largest oil refinery, which is operated by Marathon Petroleum in Louisiana.
A storage tank containing at least 26,000 barrels of the flammable hydrocarbon naphtha was on fire.
When a resident called the emergency services about the plume of smoke, the Guardian report reveals that the facility had been leaking for more than thirteen hours but “there had been no alert.
No blaring sirens.
No word from local emergency responders.”
Despite reassurances that there were ‘no offsite impacts’, residents living nearby say the accident caused health issues.
The nine-month-long investigation revealed major flaws in local the emergency response.
The heavily polluted region of the US between New Orleans and Baton Rouge, where there are hundreds of chemical plants and refineries, has been dubbed ‘cancer alley’.
The investigation reports that residents and experts say the accident is an example of an “embedded culture of secrecy”.
The visual investigation by Goldsmiths-based research agency Forensic Architecture included a 3D simulation of the smoke plume using computational fluid dynamics, created in collaboration with mechanical engineering experts at Imperial College London.
The digital model simulated the development and movement of the smoke plume from the fire drawing on data from a local weather station and images from local media and citizens.
The Scripps Howard Journalism Awards recognise high-impact reporting.
A judging panel of veteran journalists and media leaders selected the winners from nearly 600 entries offering $140,000 in prize money across twelve award categories.
Bob Trafford, an Assistant Director with Forensic Architecture, said:
“We’re delighted by this award, which is a testament to the diligence, thought, and care that went into months of research by our team, as well as to the persistence of our collaborators, among them victims of environmental racism, who continue to suffer as a result of the actions of Marathon Petroleum and the local authorities.
“It was rewarding to work with the Guardian, who have again demonstrated their enthusiasm for putting new research practices like ours in conversation with traditional journalism."
It’s a great example of how the time and space afforded by our research environment here at Goldsmiths is spurring innovations in mainstream reporting and storytelling, around critical issues of racial and environmental justice.
Bob Trafford, Forensic Architecture
“We hope our research can continue to support the pursuit of accountability and we hope the visibility that this award affords will bring to an even wider audience the possibilities of Forensic Architecture’s model of collaborative investigation.”
Image-data complex drawn from the Forensic Architecture platform, with visual assets sourced from local residents and media geo- and chrono-located within the 3D model of the Marathon factory site.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/erc-lina-dencik-award-win:
A Goldsmiths academic has been awarded a €2.5 million grant to investigate the implementation of artificial intelligence (AI) and data-driven technologies by public bodies across welfare states in Europe.
Professor Lina Dencik, University Research Leader in AI Justice based in the Department of Media, Communications and Cultural Studies, was awarded the significant funding by the European Research Council (ERC) Advanced Grant competition, as part of the Horizon Europe programme.
The cutting-edge project is entitled State-tech relations in the datafied welfare state: Examining the computational transformation of the European social model, using the acronym STATETECH.
It will examine the providers and uses of data-driven technologies by public bodies across Europe, from predictive benefit fraud systems in social security to safeguarding apps in schools to algorithmic diagnostics.
Looking at questions of governance, infrastructure, economic models and regulation, the project asks what the provision of such technologies mean for how the welfare state operates and functions.
The ERC’s Advanced Grant competition is one of the most prestigious and competitive funding schemes in the EU.
It gives senior researchers the opportunity to pursue ambitious, curiosity-driven projects that could lead to major scientific breakthroughs.
This round of funding is worth €721 million in total, with the awards shared between 281 top academics.
This competition attracted 2,534 proposals, which were reviewed by panels of internationally renowned researchers.
The use of data-driven technologies has been shown to lead to potential harms that include discriminatory outcomes, often relating to existing forms of inequality, exploitation and stigmatisation, exclusion and denial of access to essential services, and limited possibilities for redress
Professor Lina Dencik, University Research Leader in AI Justice
My interests in researching the relationship between data-driven technologies such as AI and social justice stem from a long-standing concern with the way non-elites are able to influence and engage with decisions that govern their lives.
The focus on data came from early research I did on the uses of digital technologies for the purposes of surveillance, particularly with regards to the so-called “Snowden leaks” first published in 2013.
In doing that research, I became interested in how we understand the nature and implications of these technologies as they become more prevalent in society and what the extensive collection and use of data as a core aspect of digital technologies mean for ‘ordinary’ people’s lives.
In particular, I sought to advance a research framework that broadened the parameters for how we understand the societal implications of such processes, beyond the focus on efficiency and individual privacy, which continues to dominate public and policy debates, and instead situate data, and more recent iterations like AI, in relation to social justice.
Since co-founding the Data Justice Lab back in 2016, we have seen this orientation grow substantially as a research area, with extensive research now documenting the multifaceted ways in which datafication is bound up with life opportunities and human flourishing.
Datafication refers to the trend of turning more and more of social life, behaviour and activities into data points that can be collected and analysed by computational means with the view to make predictions or recommendations.
Increasingly we see the reliance on such processes across key areas of society, including for decisions that have a significant impact on people’s lives, such as health, employment, policing, migration and welfare.
Beyond questions of privacy infringements and the protection of personal data, the use of data-driven technologies has been shown to lead to potential harms that include discriminatory outcomes, often relating to existing forms of inequality, exploitation and stigmatisation, exclusion and denial of access to essential services, and limited possibilities for redress.
More generally, concerns have been raised about the lack of transparency and accountability that often surrounds the use of data-driven technologies, and the “violence” of reducing and abstracting identities and lived experiences into quantifiable data and profiling tools.
In this sense, datafication implicates many core social justice concerns.
The integration of data-driven technologies into the delivery of public services has been a prominent approach in countries across the globe, and is now being accelerated with the advancement of AI strategies as a central geopolitical concern, including the UK’s recent AI Opportunities Action Plan which was launched in January 2025.
There is a notable ambition to establish countries as “leaders” in what some describe as an “AI race” which includes transformations in the public sector and across the economy to become AI-driven.
Yet what these transformations actually look like in practice, and how they are going to be implemented remains under-researched.
This is important in part because of the social justice concerns I have already outlined, but also because it potentially has significant consequences for how the state operates and its capacity to carry out core functions and meet obligations towards citizens.
This is an area I will be investigating in my ERC project.
The relationship between the state and technology providers has garnered increased attention, perhaps most prominently with the inauguration of President Donald Trump in the United States, which shone light on the central role of Silicon Valley in politics today.
In Europe, we are seeing a growing concern with these developments, particularly in the EU, with more and more emphasis on the need to minimise dependency on US-based technology companies and to enhance what they refer to as ‘digital sovereignty’ within Europe.
In the UK, the debate has been a bit different, with the previous and current government actively seeking to court large technology providers like Palantir and Amazon to have a greater presence in the UK, including within the public sector.
For a notion such as the welfare state, these relationships are potentially very transformative.
In part, they are so because there is a substantial body of research that suggests that integrating digital platforms and AI into the delivery of public services leads to a whole new operational logic for welfare states, a transformation in governmentality, that shapes decision-making and how citizens experience service delivery.
But there are also some distinctive features in how platforms and AI are produced and maintained that arguably create new forms of dependencies that ‘lock in’ governments into services over which they have little control.
For example, growing emphasis is on the infrastructure that underpins these technologies and the ‘compute’ power required for these technologies to operate as they do that has raised concerns not only about the environmental consequences of such infrastructure, but also its social and democratic consequences, as the provision of such technology becomes centralised around a few large actors who are able to set the standards and rules for what technological futures are possible.
We saw this very starkly during the Covid-19 pandemic, for example, where Apple and Google were effectively able to set the standards for contact-tracing apps across major governments by virtue of their control of dominant operating systems.
Although this was during a crisis, it is also something that we need to consider for the more mundane functions of the welfare state and what such dependencies on commercial actors mean for the capacity of the welfare state to regulate and protect citizens against risks associated with a market society.
For my ERC project, I am engaging with a new concept I refer to as the “tenant-state” that seeks to assess this particular context of the welfare state, drawing on current discussions on the significance of ‘rent’ in the economic models favoured by platforms and (re)positioning the welfare state as a ‘client’ or ‘tenant’ as they are often referred to in contracts with technology providers, in contemporary state-tech relations.
This is probably one of the most pressing questions in my area of research and one for which there is no easy answer.
I am hoping that with my research, and looking into the current conditions of state-tech relations, I can shed light on some of the key areas that need to be addressed, and what might be needed in order to imagine, let alone advance, alternatives.
For another project I am currently leading, funded by the ESRC, for example, I am looking into the activities being pursued by ‘Big Tech’ in relation to AI and sustainability, that includes key questions of how large technology companies are able to influence national strategies and public debate on AI through activities such as lobbying, public relations, revolving doors and government contracts.
I think that by providing evidence of these activities, it might be easier to challenge and address the current terms of our technological futures, and to further discussions on alternatives.
There is an array of suggestions for such alternatives that we can already draw on, ranging from efforts to advance public interest-oriented technologies, ensuring communities or citizens are at the centre of technological design, mobilising around different governance structures and economic frameworks such as data commons or platform cooperatives, to re-thinking supply chains and production models that might also entail forms of de-computing or de-growth.
More generally, I think it requires a destabilisation of Big Tech dominance and a scaling back of their influence and power, including at an infrastructural level, in order to nurture initiatives that challenge many of the assumptions and premises currently informing AI strategies across the world.
Doing so needs substantial political mobilisation and pressure to change the direction we are in at the moment.
From a research perspective, I hope the ERC project will allow for a more comprehensive understanding of what is happening in welfare states across Europe in a context of data-driven innovation.
More concretely, I hope the project will help inform new theories of the state that can allow us to assess the historical significance of current state-tech relations and their implications for the welfare state.
I am particularly interested in getting a better understanding of how the historical commitments to a “social dimension” within Europe, which has always occupied an awkward and often marginalised position, might be realised in our current context and what might be needed to enhance functions of the welfare state in light of their growing reliance on computational infrastructures.
Published: 18 Jun 2025
Professor and University Research Leader in AI Justice

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/baroness-casey-review:
A major report into grooming gangs by Goldsmiths alumnus Baroness Casey has prompted the government to call a national inquiry into the issue.
Baroness Casey addresses MPs at a Westminster hearing after publication of her report
The National Audit on Group-based Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse was led by Baroness Casey of Blackstock DBE CB, a BA History graduate.
Writing in the foreword to the 197-page report, crossbench peer Baroness Casey said: “The British public are rightly appalled when they hear of group-based child sexual exploitation and expect it to be investigated thoroughly, offenders brought to justice and punished severely.
“They, undoubtedly, also expect that this country has the right systems in place to understand child sexual exploitation: why it is happening, where it is happening and who is perpetrating it, so we can seek not only to tackle it when it occurs but so that we can prevent it from happening in the first place.
“To prevent it we have to understand it.
We have failed in our duty to do that to date."
The national audit sets out 12 recommendations to tackle the issue of grooming gangs which were accepted by the government, including a full national inquiry.
Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said the inquiry “will go wherever it needs to go”.
The report added that “blindness, ignorance and prejudice” led to repeated failures over decades to properly investigate cases in which children were abused by grooming gangs.
Baroness Casey said for too long the authorities had shied away from the ethnicity of the people involved, adding it was “not racist to examine the ethnicity of the offenders”.
The report found evidence of “over-representation” of Asian and Pakistani heritage men among suspects in local data – collected in Greater Manchester, West and South Yorkshire – and criticised a continued failure to gather robust data at a national level.
Speaking in Westminster at the launch of the report, Baroness Casey called for an end to “political football” over the scandal, adding: “I think it would be a real shame if politicians from the opposition parties and people in wider society didn’t see that this is a chance to create a national reset, that the only thing that really matters is the protection of children."
Published: 17 Jun 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/news/2025/decadocs:
Academics and scholars at Goldsmiths are part of the first doctoral network dedicated to the study of decadence, the cultural and societal phenomenon traditionally associated with decline and decay.
The DECADOCS project will see academics in the Department of English and Creative Writing join with colleagues across Europe and the UK.
Part of the prestigious Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Doctoral Networks (MSCA DN), DECADOCS will explore decadence studies across a range of underexplored fields including architecture, fashion, food, tourism and immersive media.
Students will apply for defined research projects and be supervised across two of the participating universities.
As part of the programme, they will also gain training and experience in collaboration with partner organisations including museums, galleries and archives.
Professor Jane Desmarais will co-supervise the project ‘Decadent Aesthetics in British and European Cinema, 1890-1930' with the University of Burgundy, and the student will gain experience working with The Cinema Museum in Kennington.
Dr Isobel Hurst, Lecturer in English, will co-supervise the project ‘Decadent Travellers and the Reception of Classical Antiquity in the Nineteenth Century’ with the University of Galway.
Bringing together researchers from the University of Burgundy, IUAV University, University of Glasgow, University of Galway, Johannes Gutenberg University, Lusófona University, University of Reims Champagne-Ardenne, Polytechnic University of Madrid, the University of Hertfordshire, and Goldsmiths, the network forms an international and interdisciplinary consortium, which will present opportunities for collaboration between the international cohort.
The MSCA are the EU’s flagship funding programme for doctoral education and postdoctoral training.
Decadence is defined as a period of decline following a time of accelerated progress, and is often associated with counter-cultural literature, art, and music of the late nineteenth century.
Professor Desmarais is the Director of the Decadence Research Centre at Goldsmiths.
The word ‘decadence’ means decline and decay.
It refers to the decline that follows a peak or high point, and it is often visualised in terms of a flower that blooms beautifully and then tips over into a phase of fade and rot.
Professor Jane Desmarais, Department of English and Creative Writing
“Decadence tends to occur at moments of cultural transition or crisis, at the ends of empires or periods when there are significant cultural transitions, such as at the end of the nineteenth century in Europe.
Decadence is often against the cultural grain and a reaction against social and political progress.”
Explaining why the project is so pertinent in the present day, Professor Desmarais said, “Many people think we are actually living through a period of decadence at the moment, with excessive materialism and capitalist consumption reaching a destructive climax.”
For a recent episode of BBC Radio 4’s Free Thinking on Decadence and Declinism, Professor Desmarais was interviewed alongside political journalist Tim Stanley, art critic Louisa Buck and Neville Morley, Professor of Classics and Ancient History at the University of Exeter.
Published: 16 Jun 2025
Professor of English, Head of Department and Director of the Decadence Research Centre
Lecturer in English

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/giving-to-goldsmiths/donate:
Transforming futures, thanks to you.
Your gift matters to students at Goldsmiths.
£50 could mean urgent mental health support for a struggling student.
£100 could equip a disabled student with essential study equipment or assistive technology.
£300 could contribute towards a Student Hardship Fund grant to cover housing or living costs for a student in poverty.
£3,000 could give an underrepresented student an Equity Award for a full academic year.
Or a £10 monthly gift could provide essential support to vulnerable or disadvantaged students.
Thank you for your support.
As a charity, Goldsmiths can claim Gift Aid on your donation if you are a UK taxpayer.
Gift Aid allows Goldsmiths to reclaim an extra 25p for every £1 you donate at no additional cost to you.
Goldsmiths is registered with the Fundraising Regulator

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/giving-to-goldsmiths/appeal:
Transform futures: help us support disadvantaged Black and Minority Ethnic students at Goldsmiths
Discover why your support is vital from Dr.
Marl’ene Edwin, BMus Popular Music student, Heavadny, and BA Applied Psychosocial and Psychotherapy Studies student, Alex.
Despite comprising 50% of our student body, Black and Minority Ethnic students receive fewer good degrees (First or 2:1) compared to their White peers.
Known as the Awarding Gap, this disparity is seen throughout higher education.
With your help, we can address this issue, ensuring all students reach their academic potential, regardless of their background.
The Equity Awards programme is a financial award and a programme of events, mentoring and pastoral support designed to dismantle barriers for students of colour.
Targeting those from low-income households, this initiative has already supported over 100 students.
Yet, many more still need our help.
For Alex, the Equity Awards programme isn't just about financial aid – it’s about being part of a supportive community where students are able to come together and share cultures, differences and similarities.
The clue is really in the name when it comes to the Equity Awards programme.
It allows people of colour to level the playing field, providing them with financial aid, as well as financial freedom to fulfil their potential.”
Alex, BA Applied Psychosocial and Psychotherapy Studies
Heavadny’s journey exemplifies the transformative power of financial aid.
As a self-reliant student without parental support, the Equity Award enabled her to pursue her passion for music and performance which wouldn’t otherwise have been possible.
To be where I am at now, like moving from halfway across London and still supporting myself and still doing a degree and doing a billion and one things outside of it, I couldn't do any of those without financial support of a programme that is specific to people of colour.
Without that people like me just disappear and we fall between the cracks and it's so important that it's sustained."
Heavadny, BMus Popular Music
Your donation to the Equity Appeal unlocks a world of opportunities for underrepresented students striving to excel at Goldsmiths.
Please consider making a gift today.
For example:
Goldsmiths' Equity Awards programme thrives on the generosity of supporters like you.
Together, we pave the way for students like Heavadny and Alex to realise their academic dreams and contribute positively to society.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/equity-awards:
Supporting Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic students at Goldsmiths to achieve their full potential.
The Equity Awards provide a package of intentional support, designed to help to level the playing field for students of colour.
The first cohort of Equity Scholars joined Goldsmiths in September 2021.
By September 2023 we will have made almost 100 awards, with students pursuing a range of subjects across our departments and schools.
We put the students at the heart of it.
Who are they?
What do they aspire to, and what do they need to get there?
And they tell us how much they value that feeling – the idea that we are listening to them, and supporting them as individuals.
Dr Marl’ene Edwin, Academic Lead for the Equity Awards
The financial support attached to the Equity Awards is crucial, supporting students’ academic work and their broader development.
But while finance is one of the starkest barriers to accessing higher education, it is only part of the equation.
Equity Scholars receive individualised educational and pastoral support to help them to navigate the opportunities and challenges they encounter during their time at Goldsmiths.
This Award is more than money to me, it’s unlocking doors and opportunities to things I would have otherwise had no access to.
Kaiya Alenabi, FT BA Media and Communications with Foundation Year (Integrated Degree)
The Awarding Gap is an issue seen across higher education in the UK, whereby Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic students are less likely to receive a Good degree than white students.
The Equity Awards are one way in which Goldsmiths is seeking to close the Gap .
Finding out about the Equity Awards felt like there was a chance for me, that there was help there; and that people like me were being recognised for their talents and were being aided to have a more enjoyable experience at university.
Olivia Uchechi McFarlane, FT BA Sociology with Criminology
The Equity Awards were designed to tackle inequalities embedded in higher education: challenging tokenism and systemic prejudice and helping students to find their voice.
The structure of the programme acknowledges the value of supporting students in navigating through their university experience.
Reducing barriers to access is only the first step.
We are able to offer Equity Awards thanks to generous philanthropic funding from alumni, friends and charitable organisations, some of which are match-funded by Goldsmiths.
We are grateful to the below organisations and individuals – and to a number of anonymous donors – for their generous support of the Equity Awards.
Find out more about making a donation to support the Equity Awards .
Find out how and when you can apply for an Equity Award .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/giving-to-goldsmiths/donate/legacy:
Leaving a gift in your will to Goldsmiths is one of the most meaningful and personal ways you can support the College.
With the help and support of our community of alumni and friends, Goldsmiths continues to be a beacon of excellence in higher education.
By leaving us a gift in your will, you can help Goldsmiths continue to provide financial support to students who may be struggling,produce the highest-quality research, and ensure that on-campus facilities are of the best possible standard.
We would be pleased to work with you to ensure that any bequest is used to support the area of Goldsmiths’ activity that you prefer.
We would always advise using a solicitor to write your will.
You can download our suggested wording for legacies (PDF) for leaving a legacy to Goldsmiths.
We encourage you to discuss this with your solicitor.
If you are thinking about leaving a gift in your will to any organisation, we recommend talking through the decision with your family, so that they are aware of your wishes.
If you do intend to remember Goldsmiths in your will, we would be extremely grateful if you could let us know .
We understand that this is a very personal decision, however if you do let us know of your intentions it allows us to ensure that we understand your wishes and that they are met.
It also gives us the opportunity to recognise your generosity and thank you, in whatever way you feel most comfortable.
Alternately, if you prefer for your gift to remain anonymous, you may be assured that we will respect your wishes.
You can read more about the main types of legacies commonly left in a will below.
A pecuniary legacy is a gift of a specified sum of money.
A residuary legacy is the gift of the remainder of the donor’s estate (or a percentage of the remainder) after all pecuniary legacies, debts and other expenses have been paid.
You can choose to leave the whole of the remainder to Goldsmiths, or a percentage of it.
A reversionary legacy involves leaving assets to a chosen beneficiary to use during their lifetime, with the whole or a proportion passing to Goldsmiths at their death.
A conditional legacy is a gift that would be given to Goldsmiths should any or all of your other named beneficiaries die before the donor.
If you choose not to place restrictions on your gift, this would allow us the flexibility to use your gift where it is most valuable.
Your gift could provide financial assistance for students in financial hardship, or provide scholarships in order to enable gifted young people to study at Goldsmiths when their financial situation might have otherwise prevented them from doing so.
Your gift could fund scholarships, staff roles or research within your academic discipline/area of choice.
Alternately, you may wish to help us ensure our campus and facilities continue to be of the highest possible standard by choosing to support our Estates department.
If you would like to discuss leaving a legacy to Goldsmiths in your will, or if you have already remembered Goldsmiths in your will and would like to discuss any aspect of your gift, please contact Zoe Wilson Young, Head of Alumni Relations and Regular Giving, at giving (@gold.ac.uk) .
None of the above constitutes legal advice.
Goldsmiths always advises using a solicitor to write your will.
As Goldsmiths is an exempt charity, any gift you choose to leave us in your will is free from UK inheritance tax if you are a UK resident.
More information about tax-efficient gifts in your will can be found here .
"Without the faith that Goldsmiths staff showed in my potential, I’d not have become a teacher, nor would I have experienced the financial independence and intellectual benefit that I’ve enjoyed for most of my adult life.
My entire adult life would have been less enjoyable and fulfilling were it not for the nurturing, intellectual training and professional support that staff at Goldsmiths gave me.
My donation to Goldsmiths will be made after my death so that others can experience intellectual and financial freedom and satisfaction.
That’s the least I can do in return for the life that Goldsmiths has enabled me to live.
If, on reflection, you realise that the pleasures of your life are, in many ways, owed to what Goldsmiths gave you, please consider making a donation, no matter what size, so that others can have what we have had."
"I feel strongly that access to postgraduate education should be made easier for potential students and that promising students shouldn’t be cut off from the opportunity for postgraduate study simply because they can’t afford it.
I’m determined to do anything I can do to further this cause, within my modest means, which is why I decided to support Goldsmiths with a legacy gift.
I would encourage anyone who is considering supporting Goldsmiths with a legacy donation to do so.
It’s so easy – the solicitor does all the hard work for you!
In addition, I’d encourage anyone who decides to leave Goldsmiths a gift in their will to let Goldsmiths know so that they can thank them properly.
Leaving a legacy donation is a wonderful and meaningful way to make a difference to the world.
My time at Goldsmiths had such a positive impact on my life; I’m very pleased to be able to help the College in this way."

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/contacts:
How to tell us if something is wrong with a Goldsmiths service and who to contact for help.
Send a message to the Student Hub for help with:
Live chat with the Student Hub The chatbot is available at all times.
Live chat only during opening hours.
Call 020 7919 7105 .
Contact the Student Hub .
Help pages for current residents .
Who to contact for each building .
For access to our buildings and rooms contact estates (@gold.ac.uk) .
For everything else contact the Disability Service .
See our full section on student appeals and complaints .
Email estates (@gold.ac.uk) .
Email catering (@gold.ac.uk) .
Email careers (@gold.ac.uk) or call 020 7919 7137 .
Visit the Service Desk on the first floor of the Library or see the equipment loan page .
How to pay Goldsmiths .
Contact the Student Hub with any questions.
Contact Security who are based across campus.
Tel: 020 7896 7105 or ext 666.
More about first aid at Goldsmiths and reporting accidents .
See our help pages for Goldsmiths ID card .
See our pages for health and safety or contact healthandsafety (@gold.ac.uk) .
Check the IT Support pages for help with common problems.
Or visit the Service Desk on the first floor of the Library.
Call 020 7919 7189 or email library (@gold.ac.uk) .
Student records See our help pages for My Goldsmiths/Student records .
Students' Union department student coordinators Find the coordinators in your department on goldsmithssu.org.
Study and work abroad Go abroad contacts .
Wellbeing See the Wellbeing page .
Further help Contact your school hub with any problems not listed on this page.
See our help pages for My Goldsmiths/Student records .
Find the coordinators in your department on goldsmithssu.org.
Go abroad contacts .
See the Wellbeing page .
Contact your school hub with any problems not listed on this page.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/gam:
The Academic Manual holds information in relation to your academic experience at Goldsmiths in one place.
It specifies the regulations, what you can expect of us, and what we can expect of you.
Until the end of the 2023-24 academic year parts of these regulations may be superseded by the Exceptional Academic Regulations (PDF) .
Download the full Goldsmiths Academic Manual (PDF) .
Overview of what the manual is and how to use it.
Our General Regulations and what we expect from all students at Goldsmiths.
For those who have accepted an offer with Goldsmiths but have yet to enrol or begin attendance.
What is expected from students on undergraduate and postgraduate taught programmes.
What is expected from MPhil/PhD students and what they can expect from Goldsmiths.
Terms and conditions and other things students agree to when they enrol.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/accommodation:
Help for students currently living in Goldsmiths accommodation and who to contact if you are living in one of our partner halls.
Who to contact for all our different accommodation providers.
Providing support and building the community around your accommodation.
How to pay for your accommodation, insurance, TV licence, and help to pay.
The rules and procedures around having friends and family coming to visit you in accommodation.
Students and providers responsibilities around keeping accommodation clean and tidy.
Tips and advice on recycling and how to help save energy in Goldsmiths managed accommodation.
How we can help if you feel you don’t want to continue living in your room.
How to find accommodation for your next year or how to come back into halls.
Find everything you need to know to work the appliances in your residence Loring Hall.
If you live in our accommodations, please see our move out instructions.
How to request a reference from the accommodation team at Goldsmiths.
The housing codes for accommodation provided by us and our partners.
How the Goldsmiths Student Code of Conduct applies to accommodation.
Our standards, values and commitments to the Accommodation Service residents and customers.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/appealsandcomplaints:
We hope your time at Goldsmiths will be positive and rewarding.
If you experience problems, we want to help resolve your concerns as quickly as possible.
These pages are for current students, interrupted students and those who have completed their studies in the last two months.
See information for other people .
We encourage students to resolve problems informally.
Some services have their own complaint processes .
If this does not resolve matters then the Student Complaints process can help with concerns about:
You can use the Student Complaints process to complain about the way you have been treated.
You may also want to consider one of the following:
Reporting a personal issue with a student, which could include bullying, harassment or discrimination.
Reporting a personal issue with a staff member, which could include bullying, harassment or discrimination.
Use our Report and Support website for sexual violence, sexual harassment or sexual misconduct.
Appeal decisions which relate to the outcome of an assessment or examination, or progression.
You can appeal against a decision of the Academic Progress Committee (APC).
You can appeal against the outcome of a departmental Academic Misconduct hearing.
Residents of our student accommodation should first direct their complaint to Accommodation Services.
How to contact the Careers Service with feedback and complaints.
Report problems with buildings and facilities to the Estates Help Desk.
The Students' Union is independent of Goldsmiths.
Contact them directly via their website.
How you can raise issues or ask questions about Goldsmiths governance, regulations and policies.
In the first instance, you should contact the Library to raise a complaint with their team.
GSU's advice service offers a confidential service for students who need support with the formal processes.
Specialist practitioners who offer advice and support on personal, emotional or mental health issues.
A method of conflict resolution which attempts to resolve a dispute through an impartial ‘mediator’.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/assessments:
How assessments work, when they happen and how you get your results.
These pages are for in-person exams.
For all other assessments, including take-home and online exams, the details can be found on your departmental Learn.gold (VLE) pages.
Find out the dates, times and locations of your in-person exams.
What you need to bring, what to do with your things and the rules of the exam room.
What to do if something has gone wrong around your exams.
You need Universal Reasonable Adjustments or a RASA to get adjustments made to your exams.
When and how the results of assessments and exams are given.
How module marks are combined to give your final undergraduate result.
How module marks are combined to give your final postgraduate result.
The process for appealing after final results are published.
When you will receive your documents and how you can request copies.
Dates and details of the next Graduation ceremony.
Information on how to make another attempt at your assessments.
Assessment information for students coming to Goldsmiths to study for a single module.
Assessment information for Goldsmiths students studying a module at another institution.
Assessment regulations for students on undergraduate and postgraduate taught programmes.
Assessment regulations for MPhil/PhD students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/disability-support:
We can help you to arrange any reasonable adjustments, equipment or support you need to study effectively at Goldsmiths.
We arrange adjustments and provide support for students who are disabled or have a Specific Learning Difficulty.
How to send us evidence of your disability or Specific Learning Difficulty so we can support you.
How we can help you during the process of applying and before you join us.
Ask Goldsmiths to make reasonable adjustments to your assessments and how you are taught.
Arrange a short screening or full assessment for dyslexia, dyspraxia or another Specific Learning Difficulty.
Assistive Technology can help you plan your time, read websites, write assignments and more.
Talk to us
Funding is available to pay for additional study-related costs incurred by disabled students.
Available to ‘Home’ (UK or Ireland) to fund disability-related course costs incurred whilst studying.
For DSA Non-Medical Help providers who are supporting Goldsmiths students.
Non-Medical Helper Rates for DSA Assessors and information on adjustments provided at Goldsmiths.
Our standards, values and commitments to the users of Goldsmiths student support services.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/financial-support:
Managing your money, getting funding, and what support funds are available.
What funding is available and how to apply, including Disabled Students' Allowances for UK students.
Discretionary hardship funds that you may be able to apply for.
Help with accommodation fees for students from low-income families.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/app:
Use the Goldsmiths App to access timetables, library, help and more from your phone.
The main benefits of the app are you can log-in once to access:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/student-hub:
Contact the Student Hub for support with administrative and programme enquiries.
Monday – Friday, 10am – 4pm Telephone: 020 8228 5550
The Student Hub is based in the Rutherford Building (Library), Ground Floor Monday – Friday, 10am – 4pm (term time) Monday – Friday, 1 – 4pm (not in term time)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/fee-support:
Information on tuition fees at Goldsmiths, including how to pay and where to get financial support.
Pay online, by credit card or bank transfer for your tuition and accommodation fees.
Who needs to pay in advance, how to pay and what to do if you would like a refund.
The fees we charge for our programmes for UK, EU and international students.
Tuition Fee, maintenance and postgraduate loans provided by a UK Government.
American Student Loans, Federal Aid and Veterans Affairs funding
Help if you get a loan provided by Student Finance in the UK.
How payment for accommodation works and how to get support with it.
What to do if you think you are incorrectly classified as a Home/EU or international student.
How fee payment and refunds work if you leave Goldsmiths early.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/mygoldsmiths:
If you have already created a My Goldsmiths account, please login below.
Your My Goldsmiths account is not the same as your network account.
It is the email address that you used when you registered for a My Goldsmiths account.
PLANNED DOWNTIME - My Goldsmiths will be unavailable from 08:00 Saturday 13th September to 21:30 on Sunday 14th September.
This planned downtime is to allow UNIT-e to be upgraded to the latest version.
We apologise for any inconvenience this downtime may cause.
My Results 2024/25 - The Registry Operations team will email you via your Goldsmiths email address to confirm that your results are ready to view.
Please refrain from logging in to check if your results are ready until you receive your email notification.
Thank you.
If you don't have a My Goldsmiths account, please click on the button below.
If you are having difficulties with My Goldsmiths please refer to the Help with My Goldsmiths page.
If you are still unable to resolve your issue with the information provided on the website then please email the Student Systems and Data team .
If referees require technical assistance with uploading a reference please email our Student Sytems and Data team .
Goldsmiths, University of London, New Cross, London, SE14 6NW, UK Telephone: + 44 (0)20 7919 7171
Goldsmiths has charitable status
© Goldsmiths, University of London.
Copyright and Disclaimer

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/studysupport:
We offer one-to-one tutorials, workshops, guides and videos to help you with your studies.
Develop reading strategies essential to understanding academic texts.
Break down the academic writing ​process to improve your essays, dissertations and exams.
Bookable sessions with a professional writer to help you find your academic voice.
Bookable and drop-in sessions with a Study Skills tutor to discuss issues and develop your academic skills.
Videos, strategies and exercises you can follow in this online guide.
How to brainstorm your topic and then build an argument and then summarise it.
Guidelines for working with copyright licences, which govern how you can reuse other people's work.
Understand the principles of referencing, why and when to reference and what online tools are available.
Get advice and support with finding and referencing sources for your assignments.
Videos, quizzes and online information to help you understand how to reference.
Understanding different styles used for referencing and which are used by your academic department.
How to use the free Zotero application to manage your references.
How to conduct independent research to find information sources beyond your reading list.
Get advice and support with researching sources for your work, specialised to your department.
Detailed guides for all the different subjects taught at Goldsmiths.
Instructions, quizzes and demos to guide you through the key skills and knowledge you need.
Videos on finding resources, advanced searching and eResources.
Research Cafés are free public talks by Goldsmiths researchers in an accessible space in the Library.
Develop skills in Microsoft Office, Adobe Creative Cloud and more with these in-person and online sessions.
Guide to help you start exploring and creating posters, podcasts and videos.
Adobe Creative Cloud, Microsoft 365, Zotero and more.
Watch archived versions of webinars to develop your skills in Microsoft Office, Adobe Creative Cloud and more.
Book a 1:1 with one of our Digital Skills Ambassadors to get advice and support on your digital projects.
Earn Adobe-certified badges ready to be added to CVs and LinkedIn profiles with these free, self-paced learning courses including presentations, GenAI and podcasts for Goldsmiths students and staff.
Sign in at creativecloud.adobe.com/cc/learn/students with your Goldsmiths username in the format abcde001@campus.goldsmiths.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/subjectsupport:
Our Subject Librarians can help you find information to support your studies and research.
Anthropology, Computing, IMS, Law, Music, Psychology, Sociology, STaCS, CALL, TaLIC and Confucius Institute
Art, Design and Visual Cultures
Education, English, Politics & History, MCCS, Theatre, ICCE
Study skills appointments, workshops.
Why you need to reference and how the different citation styles work
We offer access to many services and collections for Researchers and advice on your PhD
How staff can request digital copies of chapters or articles for the VLE or Reading lists
Take the online induction into what the Library offers, searching, reading lists and more

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/personal-tutoring:
This page provides information about personal tutoring at Goldsmiths for undergraduate students.
A Personal Tutor is an academic member of staff from your department.
They will meet you regularly (once per term) to support you achieve academic success and to have a positive learning experience at university.
You can talk to your tutor about your goals and aspirations, academic work, assessment and feedback, employability, personal issues impacting your studies, and experiences of university.
If you are a joint degree student, your tutor will be from your ‘home’ department.
There are separate department arrangements for personal tutoring for postgraduate taught and postgraduate research students.
You can contact your department if you have additional questions.
Personal tutoring at Goldsmiths is the academic element of a comprehensive system of student support.
Wider support for students is provided by our Student Support Services: Student Support, Wellbeing, Disability, Student Administration, Accommodation, and the Goldsmiths Students' Union.
Full information about personal tutoring at Goldsmiths is provided in our Personal Tutor Policy (PDF) .
Your personal tutor can help you:
Your personal tutor can help you choose:
They can also advise you on additional learning opportunities, from becoming a student rep to language learning.
Your Personal Tutor can signpost you to academic skills support.
They can help you understand your assessment feedback and provide you with guidance on how to improve your academic marks.
Your personal tutor is someone who can listen to any wellbeing or personal concerns you are having that are impacting your studies.
They can signpost you to:
Your personal tutor can signpost you to opportunities to enhance your employability and student experience.
These include opportunities such as study abroad, student societies, volunteering and sport.
Your personal tutor can:
Your personal tutor can support you if you are considering interrupting or withdrawing from your studies.
Your personal tutor can signpost you to university regulations, policies and processes.
They can help you understand and navigate the regulations in the Goldsmiths Academic Manual.
Your personal tutor will meet with you to discuss your return to study if you have been unwell for an extended period-of-time.
Your department will tell you who your tutor is before or during week 1 of your academic year.
You will be invited to attend three meetings a year, as a minimum, with Personal Tutor.
In some departments you will be invited to a meeting each week or every two weeks.
These meetings will take place in person or online.
You are expected to attend all personal tutor meetings.
Some departments deliver parts of the programme through personal tutor group meetings.
These meetings are mandatory.
You can have contact with your Personal tutor at any time via email.
You can have additional time with your personal tutor in office hours.
Personal tutors are not able to discuss with parents any matters about students who are adults (aged 18+) without the student's permission.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/wellbeing/wellbeing-service:
Wellbeing Advisers are here to support all Goldsmiths students whose personal circumstances are affecting their wellbeing and/or their studies.
It is not an emergency service.
If you require urgent help, see our emergency and crisis support page.
Wellbeing Advisers are specialist practitioners who offer mental health advice and support to students with personal, emotional or mental health issues.
We can help with a range of issues, including:
We can offer advice and support, including:
Wellbeing Advisers may also signpost or refer students to services within the university such as the Counselling Service , Disability Service , School hubs , Campus Support Officers (CSOs) and external services.
Please complete this form to access wellbeing support .
We will get back to you within seven working days.
Appointments can be conducted via telephone or Microsoft Teams or face-to-face.
Please visit our emergency, health and crisis support pages if you need support urgently.
What you discuss in appointments is treated confidentially.
The exception to this is where there is significant welfare or safeguarding concerns.
In such situations, we would ideally share information with your consent, but in situations where immediate action is required (to save a life for example), we may notify emergency services such as the Police or Paramedics.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/chaplaincy:
Settling into your university environment can be both exciting and challenging.
There will be times where you find it difficult, but you are not alone.
Whatever the difficulties you face whilst at university our multi-faith chaplains can offer non-judgemental support and a compassionate ear.
Our chaplains are trained and experienced to support you through university, regardless of your beliefs and faith tradition.
If you would like to talk to a Chaplain or find out about other listening and wellbeing services at Goldsmiths and beyond.
For a quiet space if you are feeling overwhelmed, in need of somewhere to pray and meditate or just for a free hot drink.
From weekly social events, meditation and mindfulness to worship and free chocolate.
If you are looking for a place to worship in a particular faith tradition within the local area around Goldsmiths.
Apply for funding to promote interfaith events and build relationships.
Support for students experiencing difficulties with their wellbeing.
Spiritual Direction is a one to one conversation with a trained spiritual guide in the Christian tradition.
Information about Inter Faith Week at Goldsmiths

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/financial-support/managing-money:
Help to keep control of your finances.
If you need support with money skills, Blackbullion is a great online tool for managing your money.
Blackbullion is free to all Goldsmiths students and is easily accessible resource that will help you take control of your finances.
Using Blackbullion will develop your money management skills and link you with funds supported by Goldsmiths.
If you are experiencing debt problems, there are organisations that offer free and independent debt advice:
If you are worried about your finances and it’s affecting your studies, contact our Wellbeing Advisers .
For more information on money or budgeting, contact the Advice Team at advice@gold.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/processes/travel-discount-cards:
Discount cards for travel on London Transport and National Rail.
Goldsmiths is authorised to approve online applications for the 18+ Oyster Card.
If you are enrolled on a full-time programme of study, have met all the conditions and have no outstanding fees, we will authorise your application directly.
This is normally within seven working days of submitting your application.
TFL eligibility for part-time students is quite strict and does not necessarily meet Goldsmiths criteria.
More can be found on their 18+ Student Oyster page .
Visit the TfL website for further details and applications.
Please note that if you interrupt or withdraw from your course, or change to a part-time course, we must notify Transport for London.
Your 18+ Oyster Card may be cancelled.
Goldsmiths is not licensed to authorise applications for the 16+ Zip Oyster photocard.
This is open to students aged 16-18 enrolled on a Level 3 further education course, eg A-levels.
If you are aged between 16 and 30 you can buy a railcard that gets you 1/3 off Standard Anytime and Off-Peak fares, as well as Standard Advance and First Class Advance fares.
Visit 16-25railcard.co.uk or 26-30railcard.co.uk for more information.
If you are enrolled on a full-time programme of study, you can apply as a mature student for a 16-25 Railcard.
Any student over 25 can do this.
Download the Mature Student Declaration from 16-25railcard.co.uk and bring it to the Student hubs so we can authorise and stamp it.
You can then either buy it online or at a train station ticket office.
You will need to provide proof of identity (your Goldsmiths ID card).
Please note that Goldsmiths accepts no liability for any costs associated with student travel or discount schemes.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/welcome/bank-accounts:
Most banks offer student bank accounts that come with free perks and useful tools for managing your money.
Student bank accounts are similar to standard bank accounts, however many offer an interest-free overdraft.
If you already have a bank account you might be able to switch to a student account, however it’s still worth shopping around for the best deal for you.
Student bank accounts offer some great freebies, however it’s best to consider the rates they offer and how that will affect your money.
The main benefit of a student bank account is an interest-free overdraft.
Things to look for are the limit, costs for exceeding that limit and how you’ll have to pay off your overdraft after you graduate.
Each bank will have its own requirements and processes before you’re able to open a student account.
We recommend that you have the following ready before you apply:
As you may need to visit in person, it’s worth considering opening an account with a bank located close to your home or campus.
Lewisham and Peckham are both roughly a 15-minute bus ride away from Goldsmiths and are home to a number of banks.
A UK bank account is the best way to pay your bills, manage your money and keep it safe.
It can also help you avoid exchange rate charges.
Most UK banks require you to be in the country before setting up an account, however there are some that may allow you to apply before you arrive, including HSBC (EU applicants only).
Some banks will require that you are formally enrolled as a Goldsmiths student before you can open an account.
The UK has many banks that offer competitive rates and benefits to international students, however you should make sure you shop around and get the best deal for you.
Here are just some of the UK banks that offer bank accounts for international students:
Each UK bank will have its own identity/credit check system, so please check what is needed from them.
Requested documents often include:
You may have to open your bank account in person, which means making an appointment, going into a branch and filling out paper documentation.
If you will be opening a bank account after you arrive, you should bring enough money to support you until your account is set up (about £500 in UK currency should be enough).
It might be safer to bring this on a prepaid debit card that lets you convert any funds to British Pounds from your home country.
Alternatively, you might be able to access cash from your home country bank account from a cash machine in the UK (please check with your bank before you leave).
How to get a letter that proves you are a student

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/financial-support/rent-guarantor-service:
Goldsmiths works in partnership with Housing Hand to provide a Rent Guarantor Service.
Most landlords and agents will insist on a UK-based guarantor to cover rent and any damages or liabilities before they will rent to you.
If you do not have a suitable guarantor, they may ask you to pay your rent 6-12 months in advance.
Our Rent Guarantor Service enables students with no UK-based guarantor to rent private sector accommodation that may not otherwise be available to them.
All Goldsmiths students are welcome to apply, whether from the UK, Europe or Overseas and regardless of nationality.
It is open to new students who haven't yet enrolled at Goldsmiths.
Individual and joint tenancies are covered.
Housing Hand is a secure and reliable rent guarantor provider.
Initially established to respond to student needs, Housing Hand is fully aware of student circumstances and of their many challenges when trying to secure suitable accommodation.
Housing Hand is trusted by agencies and works with 3,000+ accommodation providers, with applicants from 140+ countries.
Housing Hand will charge a Guarantor Fee, discounted for Goldsmiths students:
If you have difficulty accessing the service, please contact Housing Hand directly.
It is important to let them know that you are a Goldsmiths student team@housinghand.co.uk or +44 (0)20 7205 2625 .
See our guide to Private Accommodation options , including the University of London Housing Service database accessible to Goldsmiths students.
Alternatively, you can connect with local agents through the Housing Hand Free House Finder Service .
Goldsmiths students have free access to Blackbulliion, an online money management tool.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/processes/taking-an-absence-changing-leaving:
How to make a change to your studies and what the implications are.
We want you to be happy with your studies at Goldsmiths and we have procedures for students who need to take a break or make a change.
These can be big decisions with consequences so you can come to talk to us at the Student Hub for help and advice on making them.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/processes/mitigating-and-extenuating-circumstances:
Extenuating Circumstances categories that are considered by Goldsmiths include serious medical conditions, trauma, bereavement and court attendance.
See the full list of acceptable and unacceptable categories .
Students do not need to provide evidence of their extenuating circumstances.
Instead, students must self-certify by providing a written statement to explain their circumstances, and then to explain the impact those circumstances have had on their assessments.
Students with physical or mental impairments that have a substantial and long-term negative impact on their ability to study and/or to engage with assessments should seek support and reasonable adjustments to assessment through the Disability Service .
Reasonable adjustments and support, including variable adjustments such as extensions, should be approved as part of a Reasonable Adjustment Student Agreement (RASA), and should not be accommodated by using the Extenuating Circumstances Policy.
Students who have a universal reasonable adjustment (URA) or RASA in place that permits extensions to assessment deadlines, but who experience other extenuating circumstances (not relating to the circumstances on which their RASA is based) affecting their ability to engage with assessments, can make an Extenuating Circumstances application in the usual way.
If an extenuating circumstances application is accepted the following can be applied:
Deferral - your assessment/exam may be deferred to the next available assessment period in the current academic year, eg late summer resit period.
Where possible, students should continue to work on their assessment until they receive an outcome from their application.
If you are a final year student, please know that a deferral may prevent you from attending the summer graduation
Deferral to the following session - your assessment/exam may be deferred to the next available assessment period in the following academic year.
Depending on how many assessments are affected and deferred this could have an impact on your ability to progress to the next level of study if you have not met the progression requirements for your programme of study.
If you are a final year student, please know that a deferral will prevent you from attending the summer graduation
Change to a deadline - an extension to an assessment deadline may be granted which can be a minimum of 5 working days or a longer extension depending on the circumstances and their impact.
This is not suitable for all assessments, (e.g.
take-home papers, unseen exams and timed examinations).
For these assessment types, you should request a deferral
Students should continue to work on their assessment even if a Change to Deadline is needed:
- If requesting a change to deadline, you must continue to work on your assessment to the original deadline, where     possible.
- When submitting an application during a busy period, applications can take up to 10 working days to process.
You will have access to submit a late submission on the VLE (Learn.gold) up to 5 working days after the deadline.
If your EC application is approved, your submission will be accepted.
If your EC application is rejected, your submission will not be accepted, and you will receive communication following the Board of Examiners on your next steps.
An assessment element can only be deferred following approval of an EC application and can normally only be deferred a maximum of two times.
Extenuation may not be applied more than once to the same assessment element unless there are new extenuating circumstances presented by the student.
Applications should be submitted no earlier than 14 working days before a deadline or examination and no later than 7 working days after a deadline or examination.
Applications submitted outside of this timeframe will be rejected unless you can demonstrate that you were prevented from disclosing the circumstances at the time.
Go to My Goldsmiths to apply
Select 'My Extenuating Circumstances' from the menu on the right.
Help with applying through My Goldsmiths
You will need to complete the online form in full and complete your statement to confirm self-certification of your circumstance(s) and the impact this has had on your ability to complete your assessment(s) on time.
Applications are processed within 3-10 working days, excluding college closure days.
Your application will be considered by the Registry Operations team.
Registry Operations will establish whether your application meets the criteria and make a decision which they will communicate to you.
These decisions are ratified by the Board of Examiners.
You will receive the outcome via email and this will also be updated on My Goldsmiths, confirming any next steps.
To check the status of your Extenuating Circumstances application login to My Goldsmiths and select 'My Extenuating Circumstances' from the menu on the right.
If your EC application is still pending after 10 working days, please submit an enquiry form .
If you are not satisfied you can contact the EC team .
Once the mark for your assessment is ratified by the Board of Examiners, you can appeal the decision if you have grounds.
You are able to request a review of a rejected EC application for a change to deadline, where it may impact your ability to progress to the next level of study or complete your programme on time.
Details of how to request a review will be included in your EC outcome message where this route is available to you.
Outside of this timeframe, you may still follow the academic appeals process.
You can discuss any difficulties with your personal tutor, programme or module leader, a member of department administrative staff.
The Wellbeing service can provide support with any personal or emotional difficulties you may be facing.
Regulations for Extenuating Circumstances:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/mygoldsmiths/letters:
You can request letters to confirm your student status from My Goldsmiths.
A student status letter will show that you are a student at Goldsmiths, your approved programme of study and your start and expected end dates.
Do this in My Goldsmiths , by going to the ‘My Letters’ tab.
Before printing, ensure that your address is correct.
You can change it in the ‘My Details’ tab, using ‘Change your address’.
A student status letter can be used for many purposes, including accommodation, job applications and sponsorship.
It isn't suitable for the other reasons on this page.
For opening a student bank account, banks require that you provide evidence that you are a student.
A student bank letter will show that you are a student at Goldsmiths, your approved programme of study, your start and expected end dates.
You need to be fully enrolled to receive this letter, and many banks will have additional eligibility requirements, such as requiring you to be on a course which is at least one year.
Contact your chosen bank for more information.
Full-time students can use a council tax letter to prove to their local authority that they do not have to pay council tax and prevent them from being charged.
The letter specifies the minimum hours you study a week and also the duration of your course.
Visit your student hub if your local authority requires it stamped.
Full-time students do not have to pay council tax.
To receive a council tax exemption or discount, you should be on a course that lasts at least 1 year and involves at least 21 hours of study per week.
If only students live in the property, you will not have to pay any council tax.
If non-students are living in the property, the household will have to pay some council tax.
If you are in your final year of study, you will be liable to pay council tax immediately after your course end date, excluding any late summer resits.
If you move address, you will need to provide another letter with your updated address.
See GOV.UK for more information .
A graduation letter proves that you are expected to attend your graduation ceremony.
It can be used to help obtain permission for yourself, relative or friend to travel to the UK as a visitor.
Once your graduation ceremony dates have been published online, and there is sufficient expectation that you will complete your course, you can request a letter by emailing your student hub .
Allow 3 working days for the letter to be issued.
A Schengen visa Letter is used by international students here on a visa, to prove that they are students and the university is permitting you to travel in the Schengen area .
Students who have international status and in some cases, students who have Indefinite Leave to Remain will need a Schengen VISA Letter to obtain VISA to travel in these 26 countries.
There are Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.
If your trip is out-of-term, it will take a minimum of 5 working days for the letter to be ready.
Please allow 3-5 working days for your letter to be processed.
It is strongly advised that students do not book embassy appointments until they have received their letter.
You may need to arrange for a meeting at the relevant Embassy and show further evidence such as a passport.
You will need to request the letter from your student hub at least five working days’ before an appointment at the relevant embassy.
When booking an appointment at an Embassy, allow adequate time for the letter to be completed.
Please complete this form.
In completing this form you are confirming that you have gained permission from your department to travel on your desired dates.
Please note that as part of our checks will need you to upload written permission from your department.
Please also note that not all courses have reading weeks.
Check if your course does before booking any travel.
The Immigration Advisory Service has more information on Schengen visas .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/mygoldsmiths:
Use My Goldsmiths to access your Student Record and make changes to it.
Your username is usually the personal email you used to apply or enrol.
It will not be your @gold.ac.uk email unless you changed it after enrolling.
My Goldsmiths is an online account where you can:
This is the account you will have created at the point of submitting your course application unless you applied via UCAS.
If you were asked to upload a portfolio with your UCAS application, it is likely you may have created a My Goldsmiths account.
Check whether you have an existing My Goldsmiths account .
You may already have an existing My Goldsmiths account if you:
If you have already have an existing account and do not need to re-register.
Create a My Goldsmiths account
You will be asked to enter the following information:
This is usually the personal email you used to apply or enrol.
If you do not know which email address you used you can retrieve it .
Retrieve your username
You will need to enter the following details:
Reset your password
The email address is usually the personal email you used to apply or enrol.
Your account may be locked after entering an incorrect password a number of times
Retry after 2 hours so that the system can refresh.
If you are still unable to access your MyGoldsmiths account please email details of any error message your receive to studentsystems (@gold.ac.uk) .
Your name will be recorded as it is shown on your original application and the documents you show at enrolment.
If your name has changed or is incorrect, please bring official documentation (passport, driving licence, marriage certificate or official deed poll) to the School hubs .
The changes will be copied to your student record, which is used by staff in both academic and administrative departments.
Please note that your name as shown on the Student Record System will appear on your Graduation Certificate and transcript and cannot be changed after they are issued.
If you have another first name you would prefer to be known as, please let us know by updating your My Details section in My Goldsmiths.
Your preferred name must be a single name with no spaces and no special characters.
Your preferred name will appear when you sign-in to most of our services, including Library Search, Microsoft Outlook, SEAtS, Reading Lists, the Goldsmiths App and Careers SkillSPACE.
Some services will still display your legal first name.
Goldsmiths reserves the right to reject and remove a preferred name if it is inappropriate.
Preferred names used as misrepresentation or fraud can result in disciplinary action in accordance with college policies and regulations.
See Privacy notice: Students for more information on how we will use the name you enter.
For further support please contact your School Hub .
You can change your address, email or telephone details in My Goldsmiths by clicking on the ‘My Details’ and ‘Change your address’ tabs.
The change will be copied to your student record, which is used by staff in academic and administrative departments.
If you experience problems accessing My Goldsmiths, contact Registry .
If you would like to change your name on your student record, please bring official documentation in your new name (passport, driving licence or official deed poll) to the School hubs .
Your details will be changed on your student record to match those shown on your official documents allowing your transcript(s) and certificate to be issued in your new name.
If you would also like to change your gender on the student records system, you can do so by providing a written statement which includes the following:
The statement can either be sent to Registry or put inside a sealed envelope, marked as confidential for the Records and Assessments Manager and handed to your school hub .
Please note that your request will be treated in absolute confidence.
If you would like to discuss your situation further, please contact the Wellbeing team .
If you are a former student, any previously issued documents confirming assessment or award may be re-issued by providing the above information via our Replacement Transcript and Confirmation of Award service .
To find out how to get your transcript mailed to your home address in your home language
Your student number is on your Goldsmiths ID card.
It is the number next to 'Reg no' above your name.
Student number is also known as 'student reference' and can be found at the top of the My Goldsmiths homepage.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/seats:
In order to register attendance at lectures and seminars, you will need to download the SEAtS mobile app on either an Android or iOS device.
This is a requirement of the university, so it is important that you have it downloaded ready for your first lecture.
During each lecture, you will be presented with either a QR or numerical code.
You then need to use the app to scan or enter the code, to register your attendance.
Non-attendance will be followed up by the College, to check that you are ok and/or if any additional support may be required.
Click to button below on your phone to go to the app store and install SEAtS.
(If you click it on a desktop computer it will bring you back to this page.)
A new, updated SEAtS app was launched in summer 2024, with some additional features.
If you have the old version on your devices, it should prompt you to download the new one.
You can also click the above link to visit your app store.
If you cannot use the SEAtS Android or iOS app, complete the confirming attendance form .
You should do this on the day the session took place, to keep your record up to date.
Your School Hub can help you with this if needed.
If you need to request a change to your individual timetable, complete the Timetable change request form .
If you have a technical issue with SEAtS, such as downloading and installing the app or signing in to the application, please contact the IT Service Desk .
If you are unable to check in to a particular session, notify the session leader.
If they are unable to help, you will need to confirm your attendance without using the app as outlined above.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/graduate-school/reseach-degree-admin:
The Graduate School supports and administers MPhil and PhD students’ registration at Goldsmiths.
Our Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research and Training 2024-25 sets out the minimum regulatory standards required of Postgraduate research students enrolled on MPhil/PhD programmes, their supervisors, and academic departments.
You are required to register every year for your programme as well as pay your tuition fees.
Notification for enrolment will be sent to your college email account, it is your responsibility to check this account regularly.
Students will initially be registered as candidates for the MPhil degree.
During their programme they will be subject to a formal assessment of their research ability and the standard of their research.
The purpose of this assessment is to confirm the student’s transfer of registration to candidate for the PhD degree.
The Transfer of Registration process is also known informally as the ‘Upgrade’.
For full guidelines pertaining to the Transfer of Registration process, please refer to Section 6.2 of the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research and Training (PDF) .
Following any transfer panel attempt, all parties (including assessors, student, and Departmental PGR Committee chair) are required to complete a UP1 - Transfer of Registration Panel outcome form indicating the assessors’ decision.
In certain circumstances, research students registered with the College may, for reasons integral to their research (e.g.
overseas fieldwork), need to be based for defined periods (normally between 3-12 months) at an off-campus location.
If you are registered on a full-time MPhil/PhD programme and are going to be researching away from campus for a period of time you can apply for Off-Campus Research status for the applicable period.
If approved, your tuition fee for those months will be adjusted pro rata to the part-time rate for your programme.
You can read the current guidelines applicable to Off-Campus Research in the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research and Training (PDF) .
Applications are made via our online Off-Campus Research application form .
Please note, there are additional considerations for students who are studying on a visa when applying for Off-Campus Research status; if you are studying on a visa, you are advised to contact Goldsmiths Immigration Advice Service to discuss your plans before making an application.
With departmental consent you can change your mode of attendance or degree programme.
For full guidelines pertaining to changing your mode of attendance, please refer to Section 2.4 of the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research and Training (PDF) .
To request a change, please complete a Change of Programme Form and return it to your department for approval.
The PGR Board has also approved temporary amendments to the policy governing the Completion period, as set out in the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research and Training (PDF) , to the effect that:
From 1 April 2021, eligible students are permitted to opt-in to an extension to their Completion period of 6 months FT/ 12 months PT
The following students are eligible for extensions to their Completion periods:
For more information about this amendment, please refer to Covid-19 Amendments to PGR Student Policies (PDF) or email graduateschool (@gold.ac.uk )
With departmental consent you can take some time away from your study.
You can interrupt for a minimum of 2 months and a maximum of 24 months.
For full guidelines pertaining to periods of interruption, please refer to Section 2.2 of the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research and Training (PDF) .
To request an interruption, please complete Interruption Form and return it to your department for approval.
Completion status is a reduced fee status available to MPhil/PhD students who are confirmed to be in the 'writing up' phase of their programme.
The criteria for approval for completion status is included in full in Section 2.5 of the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research and Training (PDF) .
For information about fee liability in this mode, please refer to Annex 7 of the College’s Tuition Fee Policy and Procedures (PDF) .
See tuition fee amounts for each academic year .
If a student’s work is deemed unsatisfactory by the supervisory team, the student may, with the agreement of the Departmental Postgraduate Research Committee (or equivalent), be placed on Special Academic Review (SAR) for a defined time period.
For full guidelines pertaining the SAR process please refer to Section 6.3 of the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research and Training (PDF) .
PGR convenors are normally expected to submit the formal request for SAR via the Graduate School’s online form ( SAR1 - Special Academic Review Department request ).
At the conclusion of the SAR period, the Assessors should complete SAR2 – Special Academic Review Joint Report.
Once ratified by the Department, this form should be returned to graduateschool (@gold.ac.uk) .
Graduate School will oversee a formal process for individual doctoral researchers wishing to apply for extended periods of research and study outside of the UK.
Please see Remote research application process (doctoral researchers) (PDF) .
Where a doctoral researcher is approved for a period of Remote Research, it is expected that arrangements will be in place to ensure that the core aspects of the doctoral experience, such as contact time with supervisors, opportunities to engage with training and with the academic community and the means to access other support will be at an equivalent level to those studying on or near campus.
Tuition fee rates will therefore be the same regardless of location, and there are no fee reductions associated with Remote Research status.
Applications should be made via the Remote Research application form .
A copy of the form’s questions is available in the Remote research application process (doctoral researchers) (PDF) .
The PGR Board has also approved temporary amendments to the policy governing the Completion period, as set out in the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research and Training (PDF) , to the effect that:
The following students are eligible for extensions to their Completion periods:
For more information about this amendment, please refer to Covid-19 Completion Extensions Policy (PDF) or email graduateschool (@gold.ac.uk )
Any international travel for face-to-face research is subject to approval by the Head of Department and the university’s insurance team.
PGR students looking to undertake research-related international travel are encouraged at the earliest possible opportunity to liaise with the University’s insurance team in order to check eligibility and likely cost of insurance coverage to avoid disappointment at a later stage of the process.
In all cases, PGR students looking to undertake research-related travel must, in advance, have:
Once all of the above have been completed and the insurance team have confirmed eligibility, they must secure final authorisation and sign off for travel from SMT and confirm insurance cover.
Only subsequent to these steps should students make travel arrangements.
UKRI-funded students whose travel is supported by a UKRI grant must arrange travel through University approved travel agents and further guidance on Travel insurance and assessment .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/go-abroad:
Study or work abroad as part of your studies at Goldsmiths.
Find out where you can go, what you can do and how to get funding.
Improve your degree result, make you more employable and give you new experiences.
Who to contact about what, including the department co-ordinator details for Turing.
Find out more about the opportunities to study and work abroad whilst at Goldsmiths at our Go Abroad events.
Find out if you meet the criteria for additional funding from Turing.
There are a few things to consider when deciding which international opportunity you would like to take.
We can help you with your application and give you the best chance of being accepted.
An introduction into how studying abroad as part of your degree works.
See the different opportunities available to each of Goldsmiths' departments.
You can get funding for studying abroad from a range of sources.
Find out more about how to apply, and who to contact in your department.
How the assessments of what you study abroad will be credited by Goldsmiths.
Details of funding opportunities for working abroad after your studies.
Find out more about the summer internships available to Goldsmiths students in South Africa.
Find more information around funding options available to study, work, and volunteer abroad during your studies
Advice on finding working and volunteering opportunities including useful websites and people to contact.
Guidance on how to plan your time abroad.
Stories and advice from students who have been abroad with Goldsmiths.
Support for while you are abroad.
Helpful advice for when you return from your time abroad

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/opportunities/gold-award:
A personal and professional skills development programme from the Careers Service, designed to help you identify, develop and reflect on your employability skills.
The Gold Award is a personal and professional development programme coordinated to help you amalgamate your studies with your career pathway through self-reflection, skills workshops, creativity, extra-curricular activities, and networking.
The Gold Award is open to all students at any stage of their degree and is designed to work around your studies with flexible support and a tailored experience.
As part of the award, you must complete at least 40 hours of co-curricular activity.
This can range from volunteering to part-time work, running your business, and mentoring.
We have an activity list on The Gold Award Learn.gold (VLE) area .
You will need to record the hours you complete and actively reflect on activities you are taking part in on a reflective log.
You are required to attend at least four career-focused workshops.
You can attend any workshop or webinar listed on CareerSPACE .
You must create and complete a LinkedIn profile as part of the award.
You will be asked to submit a screenshot of your completed account towards the end of the award.
We will run LinkedIn workshops and webinars throughout the year to support you in developing your profile.
At the end of the Award, you will be asked to submit a 1000-word reflective statement discussing your experience, learning and development throughout the year.
Key areas to reflect upon may be:
You will also be asked to reflect on your learning and development creatively.
Your Creative Element can be a photography project, a scrapbook, a blog, a poster, creative writing, a storyboard, a cartoon or any other creative medium you choose.
Please see our student's creative projects .
The Gold Award Ceremony is held in June each year and is a special event to celebrate your achievements.
An exhibition is held at the Ceremony where all the creative elements are displayed .
Amber-Leigh: "The Award and its activities have enabled me to grow my knowledge, experience and confidence.” Read more David: “The Gold Award helped me to deepen my research skills, cultivate my commercial awareness skills, and taught me valuable lessons about problem-solving, time management, and resourcefulness.” Read more
Tingwei: “My Gold Award journey has been a transformational experience for me.
I have gained and developed various skills that have helped me to become a better communicator, researcher, and analyst” Read more

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/campus-map:
You will need to enable embedded cookies to see this content.
Change your cookie settings .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/campus-map/rhb-room-finder:
Sorry, you don't seem to have javascript enabled in your browser.
Unfortunately, this page can't work fully without it.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/staff-students/info/cafes:
We have a range of cafés and places to eat and drink across campus.
Richard Hoggart Building, ground floor on the right Monday to Friday: 8.30am – 6pm during term time Monday to Friday: 8.30 – 4pm outside term time
Café Thirty-Five serves hot drinks and a range of grab and go sandwiches, salads, breakfast rolls, pastries and cakes throughout the day.
Library (Rutherford) building , ground floor on the left Monday to Friday: 10am – 5pm
The Benugo Espresso Bar serves carbon-neutral coffee and NEMI teas along with freshly baked pastries, muffins, loaf cakes, fresh fruit and yoghurt pots in the morning, and a range of grab and go deli sandwiches, including toasties, cakes and protein balls later in the day.
Healthy snacks, sweet treats and coffees are available 24/7 from the smart fridges and self-service coffee machines.
Richard Hoggart Building, in the middle of the building Monday to Friday: 12 – 2.30pm during term time
Hours until w/c 12 August: Monday to Friday: 7:30-9am and 12-2pm
The Refectory serves hot drinks and a range of grab and go sandwiches, salads, breakfast rolls, pastries and cakes throughout the day.
Professor Stuart Hall (PSH) building , ground floor Monday to Friday: 9am – 4pm during term time
Benugo at the PSH serves Benugo-branded coffee, NEMI teas and Benugo-branded sweet snacks all day.
At breakfast time, there are freshly-baked pastries, porridge and topped yoghurt pots, and soup, hot shawarma flatbreads and cold wraps, salads, sandwiches and baguettes at lunchtime.
Students' Union building , 1st floor Monday to Friday: 8.30am – 5.30pm
The Students' Union Café offers a wide range of sandwiches, hot eats, snacks, cakes, and many more items.
Serving Union Coffee, from local London suppliers including Simply Lunch and Galeta.
We cater for a wide range of dietary requirements, including serving oat, soya, and almond milk, and vegan cakes/sandwiches.
Read more at goldsmithssu.org .
Students' Union building , 2nd floor Monday to Friday: 1pm – late
The Students' Union Bar is the place on campus to have a drink, play some pool, and chill out on one of our balconies.
Hosting regular events such as a quiz and cocktail night, there is always something on for students to enjoy.
These opening hours on this page are subject to change, especially during holidays.
Read about our work to reduce the carbon intensity of campus catering .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/update-details:
If you have already joined the alumni mailing list, you can update your contact details and preferences below.
Alternatively, email alumni@gold.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/join:
Our alumni community brings together 93,500 former students and staff in over 160 countries around the world.
Being part of this community is for life and comes with a range of benefits and services, such as discounts on study, three years of library access, alumni email and careers support, as well as invitations to Goldsmiths' events.
We’re here to keep you connected with Goldsmiths and each other.
Get our alumni e-newsletter and receive news, stories, events and exclusive benefits.
Complete this form to update your contact details and preferences.
We promise to be open about the data we hold about you and how we use it to involve you with the work of the Goldsmiths.
We take data protection seriously – read our privacy notice and commitment to securing your personal information .
If you have a question about being an alumni, try asking our chatbot on the bottom right of your screen.
Or check all our pages on this website .
For all other alumni queries, email alumni (@gold.ac.uk) .
For donation queries, email giving (@gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/connect:
Share what you are doing and ask about life after Goldsmiths, careers advice and more.
The Goldsmiths Alumni group is where you can:
We welcome news from alumni to share with the Goldsmiths community.
We ask that you first share your news yourself on our alumni Facebook page and LinkedIn group, which lets you share updates and comment on each other’s post.
Once you’ve shared on the above channels, email alumni (@gold.ac.uk) with a link to your news if you would like to share elsewhere, including:
Please note we cannot guarantee that all news will be shared.
Alumni are welcome to our events on campus – don’t forget to join the alumni mailing list to find out about events.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/volunteer:
As alumni, you have first-hand experience and expertise to share with the Goldsmiths community.
This can be from the moment you first considered applying, all the way through to graduation and what life is like after Goldsmiths.
Changes in the higher education landscape have impacted everyone involved – the increasing cost of studying at university, reliance on student numbers for income and emphasis on graduate outcomes.
In this climate, it is important that students and graduates can make informed decisions and gain the experience they need to pursue their chosen careers.
For many, it may make a critical difference to the path they take during and after their studies.
Our alumni volunteers are well placed to help and make it possible for current and former students to access the skills and expertise contained within the Goldsmiths community.
We know from speaking to those who currently volunteer that it is a truly rewarding experience and can make a real difference.
There are many types of volunteering activities that alumni can express their interest in.
Complete our form and we will be in touch when there is a current and relevant opportunity.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/benefits:
Membership of the alumni community comes with a number of benefits.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/certificates-transcripts-letters:
How to request copies of your transcript and certificates.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/academic-references:
How to request an academic reference from Goldsmiths.
If you need a reference for your employment, placement or further study, please ask an academic who has taught you.
Find them via their department section of this website.
If the academic is no longer at Goldsmiths, please contact the department you studied in .
If you are an employer seeking to verify a former Goldsmiths student, please refer to our employers and agencies page .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/thank-you:
Celebrating the  ways our supporters and alumni helped students at Goldsmiths in 2024.
Welcome to our 2024 Alumni and Supporters Annual Review.
As a valued member of the Goldsmiths community, thank you for your incredible support which has a huge impact on students, colleagues and projects that couldn’t happen without you.
We are delighted to share these stories of your impact in 2023/24 and beyond.
The Equity Awards programme supports students from Global Ethnic Majority (GEM) backgrounds (formerly known as Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) students) studying any subject across the College.
Equity Awards give a vital financial cushion to students most in need, are a source of pride and a spur to move forwards.
They enable students to embrace their Goldsmiths education and help to bridge the Awarding Gap that unfortunately exists – at our university and across the UK – between GEM students and their white counterparts.
Donations to the Equity Awards have an incredible impact on many people’s lives.
On behalf of our beneficiaries, we would like to thank all our donors and supporters.
Students Heavadny, Melina and Alex (known as Morley) share their experiences as Equity Award recipients
In 2024, the overall results of our Equity Award students, in terms of continuation on their courses and their academic achievements, have made all involved most proud.
Equity Award recipients are showing excellent rates of progression that show - when compared both to GEM students without an Award and white students - that the Awards are having a strong impact.
This academic year, of the 65 recipients in their second and third years, only three students left their courses.
(Figures accurate as of end November 2024).
Giving up your studies part-way through can be devastating in terms of both personal confidence and finances and is an issue that particularly affects GEM cohorts – we are delighted to see such a positive reduction.
Of the students who completed their degrees from the first cohort, all but one student achieved a 2:1 or a First – which is a tremendous achievement for the students and the programme.
It really demonstrates how interventions like the Equity Awards, which offer students both financial and pastoral support, make a huge difference in closing the Awarding Gap between GEM students and their white counterparts.
Matthew celebrates his Graduation
Our Summer 2024 Graduation ceremonies saw the first cohort of Equity Awards recipients graduate.
Matthew Taryee Laryea received a First Class Degree in Youth Work.
His achievements, and the support he received from the Equity Awards programme, caught the attention of local paper Southwark News.
He told the paper: “Although the cash was incredibly important, the Equity Awards scheme helped more than financially.
"It really supported my well-being and mental health.
In terms of the imposter syndrome and thinking ‘am I supposed to be here, do I deserve to be here?’ it’s one thing to know you have potential, but the Equity Awards programme really pushed me, and it made me feel cared about and that it was always ready to help."
Read the full story in Southwark News
Rob Stringer, BA (Hons) Sociology 1984; Honorary Fellow of Goldsmiths; Chairman of Sony Music Group and CEO, Sony Music Entertainment, has generously funded 13 scholars in the Music Department since 2012.
I have used my funds entirely towards my student loan which I am very grateful for as it is an investment in my education, and a part of my student loan I don’t have to worry about in the future.
Poppy - Rob Stringer Scholarship recipient
Music can be a very expensive subject to study at university.
For example, a student may need to buy an instrument or pay for music lessons.
Rob Stringer’s donations have made a huge difference on a practical level, as well as imparting a sense of pride and confidence to the 13 recipients so far.
The Rob Stringer Scholarship has additionally been fantastic for the Music department in terms of bringing prestige and attracting talented students.
The department was delighted to be able to make two awards in 2023/24.
I’ve used funds to catch up on utility bills and for general food and supplies.
It was also helpful to use funds towards a short trip to Margate where I was able to focus on completing two essays.
Without the cash assistance, I wouldn’t have been able to finish the tasks to a standard that I could feel proud of.
Once again, I am extremely grateful for this award.
Clinton - Rob Stringer Scholarship recipient
In addition to these important music Scholarships, we are delighted that the College has additionally received an outstanding endowed gift from Rob Stringer to support the Equity Awards Programme.
Rob Stringer’s gift will provide an anchor for the Awards in perpetuity and, as such, the impact of his generosity is amazing.
By endowing his donation, he is also supporting the College’s goal of building a major endowment to secure greater financial stability for the future.
Equity Awards from Rob Stringer’s Endowed Funds were awarded as of autumn 2024 and will be awarded in perpetuity thereafter.
On behalf of Goldsmiths, and the many students whose lives will be touched by his generous support, both now and in the future, we would like to offer Rob a huge vote of thanks.
In 2024, we remained committed to bringing world-class art and artists to South East London.
We engaged thousands of local students, young people, families, and schools in contemporary art, and offered many aspects of art education that are not widely accessible in the UK.
Our Residents programme continued to provide students, young people, and artists with a space within the gallery, mentorship from our curatorial staff, and operational and funding support.
This is helping to break down the barriers that people in our local communities face when attempting to access, and make an impact upon, the art world.
Our platform for younger artists, Episodes, provided three more emerging artists with their first exhibition in a UK public institution.
This institutional support and mentorship of artists at the very early stages in their career is vital.
We are delighted to have built up quite a legacy through Episodes of artists going on to achieve great gallery representation and museum shows.
We look forward to welcoming you to the gallery in 2025.
Our first show of the new year, opening February 2025, is entitled So, So, So.
This will be the first UK solo exhibition of painter Galli (b.1944, Germany).
After a six-decade career, Galli’s work, including painting, books, collages, and drawings, is finally gaining the attention it deserves.
It will come to the CCA in an exciting and momentous one-woman exhibition across all our galleries.
Installation View: Laila Majid and Louis Blue Newby, Inner Heat (8 November 2024–12 January 2025).
Courtesy Goldsmiths CCA.
Installation view: Sammy Baloji (4 October 2024–12 January 2025).
Rob Harris
We would like to recognise the exceptional generosity of the late Joan Thewsey who remembered Women’s Art Library (WAL) at Goldsmiths in her Will with a gift of £661,396.76.
Joan wished for her gift to be used to support exhibition opportunities for women artists working in two-dimensional paintings and drawings through the WAL at Goldsmiths.
Goldsmiths Centre for Contemporary Art (CCA) will be working in partnership with the WAL to support and provide opportunities for women artists, and to promote and motivate interest and understanding in two-dimensional painting and drawing.
The Women's Art Library and CCA will honour the gift in Will left by Joan Thewsey in a series of exhibitions across a ten-year period.
In tandem, it will create learning and engagement activities which will ensure this gift enables our students and local communities to be educated and inspired for many years to come.
Sarah McCrory, Director of Goldsmiths CCA said, "We are very grateful to Joan Thewsey for leaving such a generous legacy to the Women’s Art Library and the CCA."
“It is a wonderful opportunity to allow the space for amazing exhibition making.
It will support and draw attention to women artists across generations, to two-dimensional painting and drawing, and it will engage public audiences, our students and academic communities.”
We are delighted to announce that Goldsmiths has secured significant funding to launch a new Migrant Futures Institute (MFI) at the College.
The generous award from Oak Foundation will enable us to establish an ambitious new centre focused on advancing migration studies and dedicated to addressing the challenges faced by migrants through research, partnerships and engagement with migrant communities locally, nationally and internationally.
The MFI will be formally launched in academic year 2025-26, the year Goldsmiths celebrates 120 years since we opened our doors to students as Goldsmiths College.
Professor Frances Corner, Vice-Chancellor of Goldsmiths said, "We aim to work closely both with people with migrant and refugee backgrounds and in communities of welcome to amplify diverse voices, challenge dominant narratives, and foster deeper understandings of migration, citizenship, and belonging."
Find out more on the Migrant Futures Institute web pages .
Alchemy offers professional and creative music skills training, public performance opportunities, and mentoring for local young people (aged 13-18) who are at risk of being excluded from school.
In 2023/24, we were delighted to receive a generous donation from Goldsmiths Honorary Fellow, Sir Vernon Ellis.
In 2024, his contribution was instrumental in launching the new Alchemy Masters Programme.
This initiative empowers young people aged 18 and over, with at least two years of experience as participants in Alchemy, to become the next generation of Alchemy project designers and facilitators.
The programme offers paid training over the course of one year that equips participants to launch their own Alchemy-inspired offshoot projects in the community.
They will also develop bespoke resources to bring music and additional support to a broader audience of young people.
Thanks to Sir Vernon's support, this groundbreaking initiative has already had a profound impact on young people in Lewisham and beyond.
The Alchemy Masters Programme provides a safe space to learn and create, while opening doors to new opportunities, building confidence, and creating educational and career growth.
Alchemy Masters in workshop with singer Nawroz Oramari who teaches his ‘Electricity Voice Method
Kenny and Taiwo performing at Alchemy Live Event 2024
We would like to recognise our amazing global community who come together to support the College and students through volunteering and donations.
In 2023/24, alumni contributed 59 volunteering hours as alumni mentors to undergraduate students.
This was part of two mentoring schemes to support GEM students and students with disabilities.
Alumni volunteered 66 hours for training on these programmes and 35.5 hours to additional activities supporting student employability.
These included alumni panels, a portfolio review event and as employer representatives at jobs fairs.
A further 16 alumni contributed 64 volunteering hours, for example as speakers at events to support prospective students who want to study at Goldsmiths.
Many alumni attended alumni events in China, Taiwan and the US.
We would also like to express thanks to the 303 alumni who generously donated a total of £550,523 including donations towards Equity Awards, Greatest Need, Student Hardship and Student Support, and Scholarships and Prizes in 2023/24.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/email:
If you have problems accessing your alumni email account, please speak to the IT Service Desk using Live Chat .
Your @gold.ac.uk account will be automatically converted to an alumni email account 150 days after your course end date.
You can access your email using Outlook’s webapp .
Sign in with your Goldsmiths username in the format abcde001@campus.goldsmiths.ac.uk.
Your email address will change to @alumni.gold.ac.uk.
Depending on your degree and situation, the below applies:
Your @gold.ac.uk email will change to @alumni.gold.ac.uk.
You will still receive emails sent to your @gold.ac.uk address but any replies will come from @alumni.gold.ac.uk.
Your email will change from the current format (a.surname@gold.ac.uk) to username@alumni.gold.ac.uk (abcde001@alumni.gold.ac.uk).
If you become employed by Goldsmiths, you will be given a separate staff account.
Due to data protection, you are not able to keep your staff account once your contract ends.
Please ensure that you are using your staff account for work-related matters.
Your @gold.ac.uk email will automatically be deleted, including email history and contacts.
We are unable to reactivate your account.
If you return to study at Goldsmiths, you will either:
Your alumni email will automatically deactivate 36 months from your course end date.
Your email history and contacts will be deleted at this point – we encourage you to save important emails, documents and contacts as these cannot be retrieved after deactivation.
If you don’t use your account for 18 months it will be considered inactive and deleted.
This is in line with Goldsmiths’ information security and account retention policies.
Once an email account is deactivated, all emails and contacts are deleted and cannot be restored.
Alumni do not have access to Learn.gold (VLE), Shibboleth, Adobe and Microsoft 365 (Teams, Word, Excel, PowerPoint and One Drive).
120 days after your course ends your access will be removed.
This from your official end date and is before the date of your graduation ceremony.
For questions about accessing materials from your time as a student, please contact your department .
Contact the IT Service Desk .
We are available via Live Chat during our normal opening hours.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/careers/graduate-support:
You can use Goldsmiths Career Service free for three years after graduating.
This includes one-to-one support, access to job listings and our sector expertise.
Book an appointment with a careers consultant for personalised advice on what you want to do, writing your CV and practising your interview.
You can also email our Graduate Careers Coach Diana directly at d.akinmboni (@gold.ac.uk) .
Register for your alumni CareerSPACE account
Our bespoke mentoring package for recent graduates and details of other resources.
What you need to know for every step of finding and getting a job.
Go to CareerSPACE to search for student and graduate jobs and opportunities.
A national survey about activities of graduates 15 months after leaving university.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/library-membership:
Alumni can access the Goldsmiths Library by applying for an alumni library membership: Membership allows you to access the Library 24/7 and borrow up to 5 items at a time.
Find out further information and how to apply .
Goldsmiths alumni have the option of both paid and free membership to the Senate House Library.
Free membership:
Paid membership:
You will need to provide proof of graduation, which can include a degree certificate, academic transcript or your Goldsmiths alumni library card, along with photographic ID and proof of address.
Find out more about your Senate House membership and register online

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/alumni-discounts:
Discounts available to alumni on entertainment, shopping and more.
Alumni can access a fee discount if you are a home/EU student or equivalent amount in pounds sterling if you are an international student.
You must be applying to start a taught Masters programme (MRes and PGCE programmes are not included).
Please note that the alumni discount will be reviewed and is not guaranteed to be available each year.
Find out more about eligibility for the discount .
You receive a 10% discount when you subscribe to The Economist , which offers insight and opinion on international news, politics, business, finance, science, technology and the connections between them.
Recent graduates can access TOTUM Pro , a benefits service designed especially for graduates and professional learners.
It offers discounts on everything from dining out and keeping fit to fashion and travel.
To access this benefit, you must register with your Goldsmiths alumni email (@alumni.gold.ac.uk).

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/alumni/employers-and-agencies:
Go to Higher Education Degree Datacheck (HEDD) who provide an online verification service to verify Goldsmiths, University of London awards and student status.
The online verification service allows enquirers to verify data provided by applicants, e.g.
name, date of birth, institution, year of the award, qualification, classification, etc.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using:
Our Library is as much about accessing digital resources as physical items.
The library team is on hand to help you find what you need.
Essential information and book a tour to get you started.
Goldsmiths students, staff and Alumni 24/7.
Registered Community & SCONUL members: 9am-9pm
Students can book Library rooms for group study, watch AV or use the Games Library.
Use the self-service machines on the ground floor to borrow and return items or visit the Library Help Desk.
Use our scan and send service to request scans of physical items in the Library.
Our Postal loans service request physical items to be delivered to you.
Search the online catalogue for books, e-books, journals, videos, and more
You can borrow laptops to use for short periods on campus.
Your items will be renewed automatically unless they have been reserved by someone else.
Access your Goldsmiths Library Account to manage your requests and loans.
There are many other libraries in London and elsewhere students and staff can use
Items not held by Goldsmiths Library may be requested through the Inter-Library Loans service
Visitors from other institutions, the local community and Goldsmiths alumni can use our library
We have many services to ensure everyone can use our library, including the Assistive Technology Centre
Chat live to one of our team or look through the questions other Library visitors have asked

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/special-collections:
Special Collections & Archives includes the Women's Art Library, Goldsmiths Textile Collection and Constance Howard Gallery, Daphne Oram Archive, and numerous other unique special collections that focus on music, theatre and the performing arts.
All of which are open to students, staff and external researchers.
Our collections are reflective of Goldsmiths' influential position in the creative and performing arts, and involvement with the culture of the local communities as well as broader society in contemporary Britain.
We hold workshops with students and researchers, and also run a busy exhibitions and events programme in the Special Collections & Archives reading room (located in the library) and at the Constance Howard Gallery (located in Deptford Town Hall).
The Women's Art Library began as an artists' initiative that developed into an arts organization publishing catalogues and books as well as a magazine from the early 1980s to 2002.
The main purpose however was to provide a place for women artists to deposit unique documentation of their work.
WAL collected personal files that functioned together as an alternative public space to view and experience women's art.
Thousands of artists from around the world are represented in some form in this collection
Women's Art Library homepage Women's Art Library CALM catalogue
Future Histories is a leading cultural heritage organisation for African, Asian and Caribbean performing arts in the UK.
It was established in 2001 by Dr.
Adla Terrecciano and Ameena M.
McConnell to collect and promote material from relevant groups such as Black Theatre Forum (BTF), Nitro and Motiroti within one archive.
This project resulted in an inclusive collection of a black theatre and carnival archive consisting of Records of the Black Theatre Forum, Nitro and Moti Roti.
Future Histories CALM catalogue Future Histories website
The Goldsmiths Textile Collection was founded in the 1980s by Constance Howard and Audrey Walker, and comprises textile art, embroidery and dress from all continents.
Our global collection is complemented with a variety of teaching materials and archives, including technical and experimental samples and Constance Howard's own teaching archive.
The Constance Howard Gallery is an AHRC-funded centre dedicated to multidisciplinary textiles research, and is home to the Goldsmiths Textile Collection.
Textile Collection and Constance Howard Gallery homepage Goldsmiths Textile Collection CALM catalogue Goldsmiths Textile Collection on the Visual Art Data Service (VADS)
Daphne Oram (1925–2003) is one of the central figures in the development of British experimental electronic music.
Following Oram’s death, her life’s work was brought to Goldsmiths where it is housed in the Special Collections & Archives and is accessible to researchers by appointment.
The collection contains a large reel-to-reel tape archive, correspondence, photographic documentation, and press cuttings.
Daphne Oram Trust website Daphne Oram Collection CALM catalogue Daphne Oram page at the Electronic Music Studios
Special Collections & Archives full collections guide
Library (Rutherford Building) Lewisham Way Goldsmiths, University of London London SE14 6NW
Deptford Town Hall Goldsmiths, University of London New Cross Road London SE14 6AF

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/about:
The Goldsmiths Library serves over 18,000 readers: staff and students of Goldsmiths, alumni and external users.
Its collections cover the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences and relate to the teaching and research of the College.
In addition to some 300,000 books and 7,000 print and electronic journals, it contains extensive audio-visual and school practice collections as well as a growing number of special collections and archives which reflect the College’s interest in the creative and performing arts.
The Library is also responsible for Goldsmiths Research Online , Goldsmiths Journals Online and Goldsmiths Art Collection.
Details of the different collections in the Goldsmiths Library and where you can find them
What facilities Goldsmiths Library provides for visitors including study space and the services on offer
How alumni and other users can visit and use our Library
Our policies and rules, along with our strategy for the years to come and annual reports
Our contact details, where we are and how you can send us feedback
Posts from staff about Library life, events and advice
Library organised events and exhibitions open to the public taking place over the next few weeks

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/contact:
Library staff are here to help if you have any questions or need assistance.
Telephone: 020 7919 7189 Email: library (@gold.ac.uk) Live chat:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using/opening-times:
The Library is open for Goldsmiths students, staff and Alumni, Community and SCONUL users.
The Library is open 24 hours every day for Goldsmiths students, staff and Alumni.
The Library is open from 9am-9pm for registered Community and SCONUL users.
Live chat ( ) and library (@gold.ac.uk) Monday - Friday, 10am – 4pm Saturday - Sunday, closed
Library Help Desk Monday to Friday, 10am – 4pm Saturday and Sunday, closed
Phone: 020 7919 7189 Monday to Friday, 10am – 4pm Saturday to Sunday, closed
Special Collections and Archives Monday to Friday, 1pm – 4pm  (10am – 12pm by appointment only)
Textile Collection and Constance Howard Gallery Monday - Friday, 1pm - 4pm (term time only) Welcomes visitors by appointment: textiles (@gold.ac.uk)
To support you when you are working remotely Goldsmiths students have access to an extensive digital library , including 228 databases, over 40,000 e-books and over 12,000 online journals, available online 24/7.
Our academic support guides can help you with your studies and you can access support and advice on our computer, IT, audio/video and information systems .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using/first-time:
Our Library has many resources and services to help with your studies and research work.
Here's how to get started using it.
Watch the Library induction
See the Library Map or book a Library tour .
Get to know these by working through the Library Induction .
Sign into your Library account .
Find out how to print on campus .
You can book group study rooms, the games library room or assistive technology rooms .
Get expert help from the Academic Support Team .
See our Using the Library pages .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using/borrowing/laptop-loans:
You can borrow a laptop to use on campus for up to 4 hours from the Library and the Professor Stuart Hall (PSH) Building.
24 laptops available for use on campus.
You can find these in the lockers in the Library on the ground floor or in the Professor Stuart Hall (PSH) building on the lower ground floor.
The system is really easy to use – you just scan your library card and follow the instructions on screen.
You can borrow the laptops for 4 hours at a time.
The laptops may be borrowed from the PSH Building at any time the site is open but you need to return them to the same locker before the site closes.
PSH is open at these times on usual college opening days:
Contact the Library Help Desk if you need assistance borrowing a laptop.
On returning the laptop you need to turn the laptop off, plug in the power supply and close the locker door, otherwise the laptop will remain on your Library account.
You are unable to renew a laptop remotely.
You will need to take it back to the locker in order to borrow it again.
Late returns will be fined at a rate of £5 per hour (or part of an hour).
Software installed on the laptop will erase any files you save to it to protect your personal data.
Only save to your personal drive or USB stick as work saved to the laptop will not be retrievable.
Laptops can only be used on campus and can only connect to eduroam wi-fi.
If you cannot borrow a laptop you should contact the Library Help Desk .
For support using laptops, and to report any technical faults, contact the IT Service Desk .
Each time you borrow a laptop you will be asked to agree to the following:
If you cannot borrow a laptop you should contact the Library Help Desk.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using/borrowing:
Use the self-service machines on the ground floor to borrow items or visit the Library Help Desk.
These are the maximum number you can borrow at one time.
Please use the click and collect service to request items.
Items on loan are renewed automatically.
If another user requests an item, you will receive an email requesting you return it and it will not be renewed.
If the item becomes overdue, your Library account will be blocked and you will not be able to borrow further items.
You will be charged a replacement cost of £30 per item for any lost or unreturned items on your Library account.
Students finishing their courses need to clear all outstanding items to access a Goldsmiths Library Alumni account.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using/library-account:
How to access your Goldsmiths Library Account to manage your requests and loans.
Log in with your Goldsmiths IT username and password.
Log in with your Library ID number and password.
The password is usually your date of birth in the format ddmmyy.
Use the self-service machines to access your Library Account and check on your items on loan, or come to the Library Help Desk.
You do not need to bring your books, just your Goldsmiths ID card.
Email: library (@gold.ac.uk)
Your borrowed books and av items will be automatically renewed unless they are reserved by someone else.
The Library will email you if your item gets reserved to tell you when it is due back.
Other items, such as headphones, board games, Inter-Library loans and laptops are not eligible for automatic renewals.
Contact library (@gold.ac.uk) if you have any questions.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using/book-a-study-room:
We have several different types of study room available to book at the library.
Rooms can be booked between 9am – 9pm every day.
You can book a room for 2 hours per week.
Our Group study rooms hold between 3 and 6 people and can be used individually or to work together on projects or practice presentations.
Our Games Library room can be used to play PS4 games.
Our Assistive Technology Rooms have computers loaded with programs like Claro and Dragon and can be booked to use this technology to support your learning.
Find out more about disability support in the Library .
You need to give your @gold.ac.uk email so we can identify you as a student.
You can borrow laptops to use for short periods.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using/disability:
Goldsmiths Library is committed to ensuring that all students can make full use of our services and facilities.
We seek to meet the needs of students and academics by providing the best and most relevant literature in print and electronic format.
Subject librarians teach Library users to access material that will allow you to maximize all the relevant resources currently available.
Students with additional support needs first need to register with the Disability Service .
Information on accessible entry to the library building, locating toilets, and the availability of food can be found on accessible.co.uk .
You can contact the Library for further assistance by emailing library (@gold.ac.uk) .
You can also come to the Library Help Desk which is located on the ground floor in the Library or use our Live Chat service.
These services are open from 10 am - 4pm, Monday-Friday.
We can help with:
The Assistive Technology Centre (ATC) is located on the ground floor of the library.
Students registered with the Inclusion and Support team can access the ATC using their college ID card.
Mind-mapping, voice-activated and text-enhancing software are available.
There are several study spaces across campus the library has designated spaces for quiet study.
Students can ask at the helpdesk for further information.
For specifically tailored access needs please email library (@gold.ac.uk) .
Students with visual or print impairments can request electronic access to print resources, advice and support for alternative formats can be suggested.
To request electronic access, contact library (@gold.ac.uk) .
We aim to deliver your request within two working days, so provide as much notice as possible.
Students can request books and other resources to be collected from the shelves and made available for collection from the library helpdesk.
This service is performed during times when the library is staffed.
We will aim to make all available requested items available for collection within two working days.
This service can be requested by completing the online book fetching service form .
For Access requirements please email library (@gold.ac.uk) .
Go to dnamatters.org to find free software for computers, tablets and phones you can use.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/using/library-map:
Find your way around the Library and where the different study areas are located.
Download the Library map (PDF)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/subjectsupport/stacs:
STaCS's guides are split into different subjects.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/about/liberate-our-library:
How the Library is engaging with the Learning, Teaching, Assessment Strategy (LTAS) to support Goldsmiths 'Liberate our degrees'.
As part of the Library’s strategy, we will engage with the aims of LTAS commitment to 'Liberate our degrees'.
We are doing this work to decolonise and diversify our collections as part of an effort to ensure the library collections speak to all voices, particularly those that are traditionally underrepresented in curricula and on reading lists.
We want to work in a collaborative way with our users in identifying the subject areas that do not address their experiences and identities, and where the canon excludes them.
Please see below about how you can make suggestions for purchase.
We are working alongside Goldsmiths Students’ Union to ensure access, inclusion, and robust learning support for all our students.
Students and staff can make new book suggestions as part of ‘Liberate our degrees’.
If you would like to suggest an item for purchase, use the item request form and select ‘Yes’ for the 'Liberate our degrees' initiative question.
You can also make suggestions by emailing: acquisitions (@gold.ac.uk) , with the Subject line: Liberate.
All suggestions bought will be discoverable as a collection in Library Search .
You can view all the books and resources for Goldsmiths ‘Liberate our Degree’ by searching for the keyword ‘liberatemydegree’ on Library Search .
Collaborating with academic departments and students to identify marginalised groups not represented in the curriculum, and reflect those groups in the acquisition of learning and teaching resources.
Collaborating with teaching staff to create decolonised and inclusive Reading Lists to better represent the identities and experiences of our student body.
Examples created by the library include:
We offer a series of workshops designed to help students think more critically about how we find and why we use information from a social justice perspective.
Come along to try out some practical techniques to expand your research horizons and learn about ‘Liberate our Library’.
Examples include:
See the Academic Support page for further details.
The Liberate!
Zines Collection is an ongoing project and a dedicated space for recognising the intersectionality of struggles for black, POC (People of Colour), LGBTQIA+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer or Questioning, Intersex and Asexual), disabled, women and otherwise institutionally oppressed groups through listening and including the voices of the most marginalised.
The zines collection at Goldsmiths will support work around decolonising the curriculum.
You can make suggestions for purchase by filling in the form below or emailing: acquisitions (@gold.ac.uk) , with the Subject line: Liberate!
zines.
We are contributing to Goldsmiths' racial justice work with staff members on the Racial Justice Strategic Board, Anti-racism training group, and the Advance HE Race Equality Charter Self-assessment team (REC SAT).
We are collaborating with Goldsmiths Students’ Union on exhibitions and events using the Library space.
We want to work with you, so if there are other ways you’d like us to contribute to the Liberation agenda, please contact library (@gold.ac.uk) .
Below is a list of relevant resources for 'Liberate our degrees'

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/make:
About The Women's Art Library Collection
The Women's Art Library began as the Women Artists Slide Library, an artists' initiative that developed into an arts organization publishing catalogues and books as well as a magazine from early 1983 to 2002.
WAL collected slides, ephemera and other art documentation from artists and actively documented exhibitions and historical collections to offer a public space to view and experience women's art.
Thousands of artists from around the world are represented in some form in this collection.
As part of Goldsmiths Library Special Collections and Archives, the Women's Art Library continues to collect slides, artist statements, exhibition ephemera, catalogues, and press material in addition to audio and videotapes, photographs and digital media.
We welcome donations from women artists to help us develop this collection, which contributes to the curriculum and programming that facilitates new research and art projects, notably through the Women’s Art Library/Feminist Review Art in the Archive Bursary.
Any donations should be accompanied by forms you can download from Artists' Documentation .
The Women's Art Library is located in the Library's Special Collections and Archives on the ground floor.
The SCA study space has audiovisual equipment for group use, a photocopier and a sliding table.
Independent researchers, as well as students and staff, are welcome to consult the collection.
The Women's Art Library collection is catalogued in the Library catalogue and the Archive and Textile Catalogue .
Please phone Special Collections 020 7717 2295 or email special.collections (@gold.ac.uk) to make an appointment or visit for further information about access and related collections .
The artist Monica Ross has been a key figure from the earliest days of the Women Artists Slide Library.
Her groundbreaking collaborations with Kate Walker and Su Richardson in Fenix and Feministo: The Women's Postal Art Event form some of the most consulted documentation in the Women’s Art Library collection.
The passionate commitment to feminism that drives this early practice continued to develop into the uncompromising art practice through which she responded to urgent social issues and connected her audience.
She went on to embrace the power of performance and this culminated in the monumental Acts of Memory (2008-2013).
But before this work, on the 24 th of March 2000, Monica performed a script written in response to an invitation to speak on Art, Activism and Feminism in the 1970s.
It was at a conference titled “347 Minutes – Live in Your Head: Ideas and Experiment in Britain, 1965–75” that Monica performed ‘history or not’, and the document seen here was especially created by her for the Women's Art Library.
At last we reciprocate her tribute to the WASL and commemorate this extraordinary artist.
View the full text (pdf) of 'history or not' by Monica Ross (2000): Full text of 'history or not' (PDF download)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/library/special-collections/guide:
A.L.
Lloyd Collection and Archive (Folk and traditional, worldwide) Book Catalogue Archive Catalogue
Ewan MacColl and Peggy Seeger Collection (Folk and traditional, UK and Eire) Book & Score Catalogue
Alan Bush Collection (Eastern European folk and art music) Book & Score Catalogue
Collection of The Centre for Russian Music Books & Scores Catalogue
Alexander Ivashkin-Alfred Schnittke Archive
Daphne Oram (1925-2003) Archive (Electronic musician)
Archive catalogue Archival recordings list Daphne Oram Archive website
Dennis Stevens Collection (On Claudio Monteverdi) Book & Score Catalogue
Elizabeth Barnard (1906-2003) Archive (Music educationalist)
Kenneth A.
Gourlay Collection (folk and traditional music, Africa) Archive catalogue Recordings on British Library Sounds
WRPM : Women's Revolutions Per Minute Recordings of music performed, composed and produced by women; an administrative archive of feminist distribution and promotion business.
The Women's Art Library (MAKE) Archive catalogue Women's Art Library/MAKE
Women of Colour Index 1985-1995 (WOCI) Information on individual Black women artists working in the UK as well as key exhibitions that took place during the late 1980s and early 1990s
Artists' Books
Books catalogue
Angus Fairhurst collection
Books Catalogue , Special Collections
Contemporary art files
Archive catalogue
Nimarkoh Indent Archive (Artists' magazines, comics and newspapers)
Bank ephemera collection (Flyers, cards and press releases by the artists' group Bank) Archive catalogue
Engaged Magazine Archive also Engaged web archive
Textile Collection and Constance Howard Gallery in Deptford Town Hall, see Textile Collection and Gallery webpages
If no link is given, please ask in Special Collections to view the collection.
Future Histories : Black theatre and carnival archive (1970s-2000) (Black Theatre Forum, Nitro and Motiroti) Archive catalogue Website: Future Histories
Lift Living Archive : records of The London International Festival of Theatre (LIFT), (1981-2001) Archive catalogue
Theatre and Ireland (Microfilms of manuscripts, diaries and other items)
Terence Kelly Collection (Reports and cuttings files on radio and television broadcasting)
National Network for Arts in Health (NNAH) Collection (1985-2004), including Baron Archive of Health Care Arts Archive catalogue
National Campaign for the Arts Archive (1985-1998)
Margot Heinemann (1913-1992) Archive Archive Catalogue Archives Hub
Rossell Collection (Books and other publications covering the history of world cinema) Books Catalogue Archive Catalogue
The Other Cinema Archive Catalogue
Thomas Collections (Books on the history of broadcasting in the UK) Books & CDs Catalogue
Richard Hoggart (1918- ) Papers (relating to his work on external committees during his period as Warden of Goldsmiths College from 1976 to 1984) Archive catalogue
Paris Commune Collection collected by Adrian Rifkin Books Catalogue
Vic Seidler, Ben Gidley and Andrew Goodman's papers on late 20th-century society and social movements Seidler Archive Catalogue Seidler Books Catalogue Gidley Archive Catalogue
William Loring Papers (1865-1915) (personal correspondence, photos and other documents of William Loring, first Warden of Goldsmiths, chiefly while deployed during the First World War) Archive Catalogue
The College Publications Collection pamphlets published under the Goldsmiths imprint, inaugural lectures etc.
Pamphlets Catalogue
The College Collection historic book collections of Goldsmiths college and its constituent bodies Books Catalogue
A selection of items from the Goldsmiths Archive has been digitised, including Annual Reports and Prospectuses of the Art School.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/service-desk:
Contact us with any problems you have with IT and digital services.
We are available to help Monday - Friday.
If you have an active and accessible Goldsmiths account, the quickest way to report an issue or request help use Hornbill, our self service portal, where you can easily track the progress of your report.
Report an IT issue or request help through Hornbill
You can chat with us during our normal opening hours
Come and see us in-person at the IT Service Desk on the first floor of the Library.
After passing through the Library security gates take the first stairs on your left.
Once on the first floor turn right and follow the signs to the end of the building.
Any current issues are shown here.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/printing/student-printing-overview:
All you need to know about printing on campus.
Please only print if necessary.
Use the online portal to put funds on your card before printing .
With a document open on the PC, choose File > Print, or press CTRL+P keys.
The Print dialogue will open, with a preview of your printed document
Select “…Secureprint Windows....” as your printer (if not already selected)
Select any print options such as colour or double-sided
Click “Print”
Go to any open access printer, and sign in by tapping your Goldsmiths ID card or entering your username (in the format abcde001@campus.goldsmiths.ac.uk) and password
On the printer panel, select your documents, and click “Print”
Microsoft support: printing and print preview
Adobe support: PDF printing
With a document open on the Mac, choose File > Print, or press ⌘ (Command)+P keys.
The Print dialogue will open with a preview of your printed document
Select “...Secureprint Mac....” as your printer (if not already selected)
Go to any open access printer, and sign in by tapping your Goldsmiths ID card, or entering your username (in the format abcde001@campus.goldsmiths.ac.uk) and password
Apple support: print documents from your Mac
Adobe support: PDF printing task
Follow the links below to set up for Mobile Printing.
You need to be on the Goldsmiths network or eduroam wi-fi to access these links:
Please be aware of our Printing Refund Policy .
Goldsmiths Print Services offers quick, good-value printing.
They can make booklets, leaflets, posters, banners, and more.
Talk to us at the IT Service Desk or give us a ring.
You can find us in the Library building, first floor.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/printing/scanning-on-campus:
You can scan documents and have them sent via email using our printers.
You can scan on campus in two ways:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/wifi:
How to connect to eduroam, the Goldsmiths campus network.
Wi-Fi usernames are in this format: abcde001@campus.goldsmiths.ac.uk
Guest Wi-Fi access is available for visitors to Goldsmiths
If you do, please click on Connect .
If you do, click on Continue .
If you live in our campus Halls of Residence and you have devices that work over network (i.e.
gaming consoles, smartTVs, etc) you need to check beforehand if your device is compatible with WPA2 Enterprise authentication.
To have your device whitelisted raise a ticket using Hornbill with the following information:
Please note not all devices can be whitelisted.
Requests to whitelist a device might take a few weeks to be actioned.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/email:
Using your @gold.ac.uk email account and accessing it across devices
How to set up your emails on your smart phone or tablet.
How to set up your emails on your personal computer.
How to add signatures, automatic replies and manage your inbox.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/timetable/timetable-change-request:
Use this form to request a change to your timetable.
Alternatively, email ahhub@gold.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/timetable/module-change-request:
Use this form to request a change to your optional modules.
The Module Change Request form is no longer available.
If you did not make your module selections, your modules will now have been chosen for you.
You can view your module selections in My Goldsmiths under the 'My Module Selection' section.
You can view your module information in My Goldsmiths by clicking on the 'View Curriculum Catalogue' button.
If you have any questions, please contact the Student Hub .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/timetable/academic-week-numbers:
Use this table to find the academic week number used on timetables.
Christmas holiday 16 December - 12 January
Easter holiday 29 March - 27 April
End of undergraduate term: 20 June*
End of postgraduate term: 26 September*
* Some programmes do not have reading weeks or have varients to these dates .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/account-issues:
How to manage your password and what to do if it isn't working.
There is no way to recover a forgotten password.
You will need to change your password to a new one.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/printing:
All you need to know about follow-you printing and scanning on campus
How to print on campus.
How to add credit to your student card via debit/credit card.
How to use the scanners to copy or send documents to email.
Print documents from your own device on a Goldsmiths printer.
We recommend using the following browsers: Firefox, Edge or Safari.
Default settings and how to troubleshoot the most common printing issues.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/mfa:
MFA is a fast, easy and secure access to Goldsmiths IT services off-campus.
Goldsmiths uses multi-factor authentication (MFA) for staff signing in to services including email, Teams, Goldmine and Library.
This greatly improves the security of our systems and protects them against cyber-attackers trying to steal data or bring down our systems.
What MFA is, how it works and why we are using it at Goldsmiths.
How to install and link the Microsoft Authenticator app - the recommended method for quickly signing in.
We recommend you have a second method for authenticating your sign in.
What to do if you require someone else to access your account or have access needs.
What to do if you lose your phone or want to change to a different device or method.
Help with using the Microsoft Authenticator app in China on Android phones.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/information-security:
Students and staff at Goldsmiths hold important and sensitive information on their devices.
Here is advice on keeping it safe.
Ensuring your passwords are secure is one of the most important things you can do to protect your information.
Online scamming has developed into a sophisticated business with criminals using clever tactics to trick people.
There are important actions you can take to keep your information secure when using your own device.
It is best to store documents online to keep them secure and backed up in case your device is lost or fails.
It is important to report all incidents to help us record, investigate and hopefully protect us from future incidents.
If you have a requirement or request for something that isn’t currently supported or provided, please talk to us.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/apps:
Goldsmiths provides free software to staff and students.
This software is only meant to be used on personal computers.
If you are a staff member and you need software on your college machine, contact the IT Service Desk as we can install it remotely.
Photoshop, Premiere Pro, Illustrator and more.
Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint and more
Use Zotero to organise your references
NVivo is a qualitative data analysis software
SPSS statistical analysis software guide and installation
High performance language for technical computing

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/equipment-loans:
Equipment loans for staff and students.
When attending an equipment booking you must have your Goldsmiths staff/student ID card.
Unfortunately, we will have to turn you away without a valid card.
Items are free to borrow provided they are for Goldsmiths academic or research work only.
Please look after the equipment you borrow do not leave it unattended or use it in damp or dusty conditions.
We can give advice on how best to maintain the equipment you borrow.
To view our full catalogue of equipment, visit LORE our online reservations system
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday & Friday – 9am -4pm
Wednesdays & Weekends -  Bookings unavailable
We will hold your reserved items for up to an hour after which the system will automatically release your booking.
Please ensure you attend the booking time you have requested.
All bookings are a 4 day loan.
For special booking requests – you will need to submit the online form (link below) before you collect your equipment.
We advise a 2-week advance notice as all equipment will be subject to availability.
Please note that loans cannot be extended.
You will be unable to make any additional bookings until all the equipment from an outstanding booking has been returned or, in the event of damaged or missing equipment, replaced.
You can borrow one type of item per loan period.
For example, you can borrow a microphone and a camera within the same loan period, but not two cameras.
The only exception to this is for Goldsmiths staff who require multiple items of equipment to teach an academic course – however, this is also subject to availability.
This policy is in place to allow equipment availability to all users.
If you are unsure of what you can borrow, our staff will be happy to advise you.
If items are damaged or lost then you are liable for their replacement.
All equipment must be returned in the same condition in which it was loaned.
The equipment is your responsibility, and you will be held liable for any damage or missing equipment, as the owner of the booking.
We do not advise you on loaning out equipment on the behalf of your peer or colleague to ensure correct liability in case of loss or damage.
Unfortunately, we cannot drop off or pick up equipment – all items should be collected and returned to the Service Desk, RB109.
Please ensure you return equipment on time, as other people may be waiting to collect it.
If you have any trouble returning equipment at the agreed time, please let us know as soon as you can.
Late return of equipment affects the ability for other staff and students to borrow and disrupts their work.
For this reason we operate a suspension policy: If equipment is returned late, your loan account will be temporarily suspended.
We reserve the right to refuse service to those who we believe are in violation of our Loan Procedures.
Your account will be suspended if you are found to be in violation of our Loan Procedures.
If an item you borrow is stolen please report this both to us and the local police.
They will issue you with a crime reference number, which you’ll need to inform us of.
This will make sure you are not held responsible for not returning an item.
Please let us know if there are any faults with the equipment.
We test equipment regularly, however sometimes there are pre-existing faults which may have been missed.
It’s important that you let us know when returning an item, so that you are not held accountable.
Please note that you are responsible for complying with all legal requirements such as data protection and the acquisition of filming rights when using our equipment to create and edit digital media.
This online form is for requesting equipment from the MEC outside of our normal loan procedures, as well as requesting equipment for use in Departmental Shows.
We will need to receive this form two weeks before the booking start date to allow and add it to our system.
Upon completing the form please allow up to 5 working days for confirmation or rejection of your request.
Special Booking Request Form

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/file-storage:
Students and staff can store their documents in the cloud through OneDrive.
We always recommend to make copies, especially of files that are very important to you.
OneDrive is a cloud storage solution that is part of Microsoft 365.
At Goldsmiths both staff and students can store their files and folders on their own personal storage on OneDrive.
All users have 1TB of storage on their OneDrive, all files are stored securely on servers and in accordance with the University’s standards.
To access OneDrive, sign in to your @gold.ac.uk email , then click on the tile icon on the top-left of the screen (right next to Outlook) and select OneDrive.
You can upload and download files here, as well as sharing files or folders with other people.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/learn-gold:
Support for accessing Learn.gold, our Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
Go to Learn.gold, the VLE
See Learn.gold's Student Help section for help using the VLE.
Module content is maintained by your course tutors.
Contact them or your department office if you have any problems with the content.
Use your Goldsmiths account to sign into Learn.gold .
If you are only having difficulty signing in contact the IT Service Desk .
Former students cannot access Learn.gold.
Please contact your school hub for questions about accessing materials from your time as a student.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/teaching-rooms:
IT and Digital Services support over 150 teaching spaces across our campus, with facilities ranging from a mobile TV unit to 300-seat lecture theatres.
In each teaching room you will find an identical touch screen beside an input panel for your laptop or USB stick.
Every room has a built-in PC and Apple Mac computer that can be selected from the touch screen.
Smaller rooms include a wireless connection for PC, Mac, iOS or Android devices that allow presentation without a log-in or cables, and larger rooms are equipped with digital overhead projectors.
Our larger teaching spaces have recording facilities, surround sound and granular lighting controls
Should you require assistance with any of the technology in the classrooms, the IT Service Desk will be pleased to advise you or arrange an appointment with one of our AV technicians to run through the equipment.
All of our supported classrooms are proactively monitored and faults resolved before and after teaching commences.
Should you discover an issue during your teaching please contact us by using the phone in the teaching room.
The phone will be labelled with IT Support, Estates and Security.
Press the button next to IT support.
Alternatively, you can contact us via live chat .
Please make sure that you log off the built-in PC or Mac at the end of your teaching session, and power down the AV equipment using the touch screen controls.
Please do not switch off, unplug or reconfigure any of the AV equipment in the space as doing so will prevent the next class from starting smoothly.
Please note that we provide HDMI and VGA connections only in our classrooms, so if your device requires an adapter you will need to bring one with you.
The IT Service Desk offers some adapters through the equipment loan service.
If you are running an event and you would like to hire a dedicated technician to support the AV equipment, or film/record the event, please contact the IT Service Desk, with full details of the event, including dates, times, location and AV requirements.
Please note: Event support with a dedicated technician is a chargeable service and subject to the availability of a technician.
Requests must be made to the IT Service Desk, for review, at least 7 working days prior to the event.
We aim to notify you at least 3 working days before the event if a dedicated technician is unavailable.
If you have an issue that cannot be resolved with information covered in this page, contact the IT Service Desk .
How to use our teaching rooms

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/digital-media-suite:
The Digital Media Suite is a facility for video and audio editing work for the beginner as well as the more experienced.
The Digital Media Suite is on the second floor of the Library.
Mon-Fri 9am-6pm (except for when booked out by groups)
DMS staff are available to help individuals Mon-Fri 9am-5pm.
We offer short tutorials either individually or in small groups by appointment.
Please visit us in Rutherford Building (Library) 202 or email dms@gold.ac.uk with any enquiries.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/email/email-setup-on-mobile-devices:
You can set up your mobile to receive college emails.
You can view emails on your mobile devices by using the Outlook App which  is compatible with Exchange and make full use of the service.
Your email address should now be set up on Outlook on your mobile.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/email/email-setup-on-laptops-and-desktops:
The following guides provide instructions to set up your email on your personal computer.
You can either use the mobile version of Outlook or your phone proprietary email client.
To access your emails via web browser go to outlook.com/gold.ac.uk .
Sign in using your username in the format abcde001@campus.goldsmiths.ac.uk and password.
Your Goldsmiths email should now be set up on your Outlook for Mac.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/email/common-email-functions:
This page will guide you through some of the most common email functions across different mail platforms.
The following outlines the correct way to add additional blocks of information to the email signature.
To add an automatic reply on Outlook for Windows:
To add an automatic reply on Outlook for Mac:
To add an automatic reply on OWA:
We do not recommend forwarding emails, as it is against the Email Policy (PDF) and prevents Golsmiths from monitoring and safeguarding this data.
Focused Inbox separates your inbox into two tabs: Focused and Others .
Your most important emails are on the Focused tab while the rest remain easily accessible, but out of the way, on the Other tab.
To enable or disable the Focused Inbox sorting:
If you receive an email of which you are unsure of the sender or content, please do not open it or click on any links until you are sure it is a trusted email.
You can forward the email to the Service Desk if you need confirmation.
If the email affects a large number of users on campus we can block it on the server, otherwise you can mark the email as junk and delete it.
Emails in your junk folder can also be blocked by selecting the desired email(s) and clicking on the Block button on the menu at the top of your email list.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/printing/mobile-printing:
How to send items to print on Library printers from your own device.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/printing/default-settings-and-common-issues:
All printers on campus are setup in a similar way.
If you have any particular printing requirement, please read this section carefully before making any changes.
By default, our printers print double-sided.
If you want to print single-sided you need to change this in the print settings.
It's good practice to release prints from a PaperCut printer either if you want to print black and white or colour print release the jobs from PaperCut.
Before releasing a job from a printer, check the 3 LED lights at the very front (below the touchscreen of the printer).
A printer in working order will have 1 blue steady LED light.
A printer that is processing a large job (which means it will take some time before it can release your print) will have 1 blue steady LED light and 1 blue intermittent LED light.
A printer that has an issue (i.e.
paper jams or lack of paper) will display an orange line under check printer and intermittent blue LED light
Using less paper is an environmentally responsible and thrifty way of ensuring you can support the Environmental Policies of Goldsmiths College and the Student Union, and save yourself some money at the same time.
You should print on both sides of the paper — this is the default setting for all printers in the Rutherford Building.
Only ever print on one side of the page if your department has deemed it necessary (eg.
final submission essays, dissertations and theses)
Print two or more pages of your document on one side of paper — useful for printing multiple slides on a PowerPoint presentation or creating a draft
If you need to make minor corrections to a printed document, don’t reprint the entire document again.
Just select the Page Range option in Microsoft Word’s Print dialog to reprint only the pages you have changed
Printing an email message is almost always unnecessary
Printing entire webpages is difficult and rarely looks good.
It’s often best to copy sections of text or images into a Word Document, and print from there.
Or even better if the web page can be downloaded or exported as PDF
Reduce page margins to allow more printing space on the page, and always delete unnecessary white space in a document
It is your responsibility to ensure that a web page is printed correctly, and using the steps above, it should be.
IT Services will not refund printing charges if a web page has failed to print satisfactorily
Word documents containing images or other files can become very large.
A Word document larger than 1-2MB may be difficult to send via email, or take a long time to print from the print queue.
Reducing the size of the Word document can avoid these problems.
Inevitably, with size reduction comes a loss in quality, so it’s definitely worth experimenting with file sizes to see which one best suits your needs.
If quality is of utmost importance, you could save the Word document as a PDF or split the print job into smaller jobs of a few page ranges each.
The two most common printer errors are paper jams and the Load Paper error.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/account-issues/password-change:
How to change your password and update it on your devices.
As well as changing your password you will need to update it in places where it is stored.
This will include Wi-Fi settings on your devices.
We have information about different set-ups.
To get the right page tell us about your set-up.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/wifi/guest-wifi:
Setting up and using Wi-Fi for visitors to Goldsmiths.
Guest Wi-Fi access is available for visitors to Goldsmiths.
You will need a valid email address that you can access on your device.
The Guest account is valid for 24 hours.
You will need to re-register if you require access for more than 24 hours.
To access the Guest Wi-Fi, using any device:
Please note that some web browsers have issues with this network.
If you are having issues with the Guest network, please use a different browser.
Generally, it works best on Internet Explorer for Windows and Firefox for Macs.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/apps/creative-cloud:
Goldsmiths is an Adobe Creative Campus, which means our students and staff can use Photoshop, Premiere Pro, Illustrator and more for free on their own devices.
As an Adobe Creative Campus, Goldsmiths actively focuses on teaching digital skills to help students succeed in the classroom and gain an edge in the competitive modern workplace.
All Goldsmiths students and permanent staff can install the Adobe Creative Cloud suite, which includes the apps listed below.
(Associate Lecturers can also request and install Adobe Creative Cloud through Hornbill if they need it for their teaching).
This software can be used for photography, video editing, animations, social media, and more.
Visit the Adobe Creative Cloud website for full details of the available software.
Your Goldsmiths Adobe account and access ends on the completion date of your course Before this date remember to export any files you want to keep to either your personal file storage, or to your personal Adobe account.
Adobe's 'migration' process explains how to export your files to your personal file storage.
Before your end date we will email you an Adobe Graduate voucher that entitles you to 6 months free access to Adobe Creative Cloud.
This voucher includes a tool to migrate all your files from your Goldsmiths Adobe account to your personal Adobe account.
Once Creative Cloud has been installed, you can use the software to download and manage all of your Adobe apps.
An all-in-one editor that allows you to easily combine graphics, enhanced video features, and animations.
Work can also be collaborated on in real time, and integrations with Photoshop and Illustrator support skill-building and simplify workflows.
An image editing app that lets you transform photos, graphics, and illustrations.
Edit and create with layers, brushes, AI tools, and more.
A graphic design app that allows you to create illustrations, logos, and more.
Use precise tools to make vector artwork that can scale to any size.
A PDF editing app that lets you view and edit your documents, use e-signature tools, collaborate on reviews, and more.
A page design and layout app that can be used to create and publish print and digital documents.
Make posters, books, digital magazines, e-books, interactive PDFs, and more.
A photo editing app that allows you to enhance and organise your photos.
Use and create presets, adjust colour and clarity, and more.
A video editing app that can be used to create film, broadcast, and social content.
Assemble videos and add titles with a variety of creative and AI tools.
A video editing app that lets you quickly create social content with Premiere Pro tools.
Edit, adjust colour and audio, use templates, and more.
As the industry standard for motion graphics and visual effects, this software can be used to create sophisticated visuals for film, TV, social media, the web, and more.
A creative asset manager that lets you preview, select, organise, edit and publish multiple creative assets quickly and easily.
A photo editing app that allows you to enhance and organise your photos by adding presets, making adjustments, and batch-organising photos.
An app that lets you design, view, and share interactive augmented reality experiences — no coding skills are required.
An app that can be used to design, code, and publish responsive websites and web applications.
An app that allows you to design interactive animations for games, apps, and the web.
An app that enables expressive, high-quality, performance based animation that’s so fast it can be used live.
An app that lets you easily record, edit, and clean up audio content with multitrack, waveform, and spectral frequency displays.
An app that has the tools you need to texture your 3D assets for entertainment, product design, fashion, e-commerce, and more.
An app that can be used to transform real-life pictures into photorealistic materials, 3D objects, and HDR environments using features powered by Adobe Sensei AI.
An app that allows you to design seamless 3D materials and patterns, image filters, environment lights, or 3D models with the total control of node-based authoring.
An app that lets you set up 3D assets, materials, lights, and cameras and export images, web and AR experiences, and more.
An intuitive 3D scene design tool for prototyping, rendering photorealistic images, publishing interactive 3D content, and more.
An app that lets you ingest, transcode, create proxies, and output to almost any format you can imagine.
An app that allows copywriters and editors to style text, track changes, and make simple layout modifications to a document while designers work on the same document in Adobe InDesign.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/apps/microsoft-365:
As Goldsmiths staff member or student, you have access to the Microsoft 365 apps on up to 5 personal devices.
As a Goldsmiths registered student, you can install Microsoft 365's suite of productivity application on up to five personal devices.
The suite includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote and Publisher.
IT and Digital Services does not provide training on Microsoft 365, but can answer questions.
You can access free Microsoft training courses at the Microsoft 365 Training Center, which is an online resource containing hundreds of training courses covering all the Microsoft applications.
You can also view a collection of Quick Start guides to get started with Microsoft's most popular productivity tools.
Microsoft 365 Training
Microsoft 365 Quick Starts
Microsoft 365 for Windows
To install Microsoft 365 Office apps on your Windows machine:
You have now authenticated your Microsoft 365 suite which is ready for use.
Microsoft 365 for Mac
To install Microsoft 365 on your Mac machine:
You have now authenticated your Microsoft 365 which is ready for use.
If you want Microsoft 365 Office apps on your tablet or phone, you will need to download the products via Google Play or Apple Store (they are free).
Once downloaded you will need to authenticate as follows:
You have now authenticated your Microsoft 365 apps on your mobile device.
IT&IS does not provide training on Microsoft 365, but can answer questions.
Microsoft 365 Training Center

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/apps/zotero:
Use Zotero for searching online bibliographics and organise your references.
Zotero is a freely available reference management tool that is recommended and supported by the Library and Subject Librarians.
Reference management systems are time-saving tools that allow you to:
Zotero is free to download from the Zotero website and is available on campus computers
Documentation is available on the Zotero website , and the Library have created brief video tutorials.
Subject Librarians provide workshops on using Zotero for reference management as part of the Academic Skills Centre workshops.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/apps/nvivo:
NVivo is a powerful application which can help you to manage your analysis of non-numerical, text-based qualitative data.
You can input text, audio files, video files, image files, spreadsheets, web pages, even data from Twitter and Facebook.
This data can be exported easily and visualised to share your findings.
Before attempting to install NVivo, ensure you have acquired an NVivo licence code from the IT Software self-service web page.
Once you have a licence code and have downloaded the necessary NVivo installer, you can follow the steps below to install the software.
Please ensure you are connected to the internet throughout the installation and software licencing process.
IT and Digital Services does not provide training on Nvivo.
You can find online self-access training at:
NVivo website
Important: NVivo provides backward compatibility—if a user with a later version of NVivo attempts to open a project in an earlier format (for example, a user opens an NVivo 12 project in NVivo 15 (Windows)), the user is prompted to convert the project to the later format.
The original project is not modified; instead a converted copy of the project is created.
NVivo does not provide forward compatibility — the user cannot open a project with a later format.
For example, if a user wants to open an NVivo 15 (Windows) project, they must have NVivo 15 (Windows), or later, installed.
To obtain the current NVivo licence code please type your username in the field below.
To download the NVivo installer, click one of the links below.
MacOS installer
Windows installer
Once you have obtained the Nvivo installers and licence code, you are ready to install the software.
This process can take up to 30 minutes.
Your NVivo licence code generally lasts for 12 months from the start of July.
QSR International provides an additional one month grace period, and so all NVivo licence codes should remain valid until the end of July.
To update the NVivo Licence Code:
NVivo 15 for Mac OSX installs like any other Mac application - simply open the .dmg package and drag the NVivo application to the Applications folder.
You may be prompted to enter your computer administration credentials to complete this process and to allow for some changes to the system for the application to operate.
Once you open NVivo you will be prompted to enter your licence and personal details.
Please enter the license you received by email and all the appropriate personal details required.
The NVivo Server enables you to store your NVivo project centrally and access it from any internet-connected computer.
Our Open Access computers only let you save your NVivo projects on our server - you cannot store them on the local computer or on an external hard drive.
This is for technical reasons to do with the way that software is installed and managed on all of our Open Access PCs.
We have to use NVivo Server to enable NVivo to work.
The NVivo Server can be very useful to research teams - you can all access the same project simultaneously and do not have to pass copies of your project between you for later merging.
For an individual researcher on a personal device, the NVivo Server is simply another place to store your NVivo project.
It's just that on our Open Access computers it is the only place.
You can copy your project to and from the server when you are using your own computer, but you can only work with it on the server on an Open Access PC.
The NVivo Server is located and run on a server-based on-campus.
Data stored to the NVivo Server is not stored off-site or in any cloud-based storage.
When you create a new project on an Open Access computer, follow these steps:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/apps/spss:
SPSS is a software package published by IBM and used for statistical analysis.
SPSS Statistics 30 will be available in our IT labs and open access computer area over the summer
The process for installing this application is straightforward, however it contains many steps.
Please ensure you follow the instructions below carefully.
Before attempting to install SPSS, ensure you have acquired an SPSS licence code from the IT Software self-service web page.
Once you have a licence code and have downloaded the necessary SPSS installer and patches, you can follow the steps below to install the software.
Please ensure you are connected to the internet throughout the installation and software licensing process.
IT and Digital Services does not provide training on SPSS, SPSS Amos or SPSS Modeler.
Online self-access training
To obtain the current SPSS licence code please type your username in the field below.
If you are using SPSS Statistics 27, please uninstall the application and install SPSS Statistics 30 using the information below.
To obtain the SPSS installer(s), click the link below that is appropriate to your Operating System.
You must also download the patch fix for the version you download if available to ensure proper functionality of the software.
You will be prompted to log in with your credentials.
Download the appropriate installer and fix but do not run the installer until you have a license code.
You will be prompted for your username and password.
Once you have obtained the SPSS installer, patches and licence code, you are ready to install the software.
You will now need to restart your machine and then install the patch(es) you downloaded.
For the patches simply follow the installation wizard by clicking on Next, Ok or Finish when appropriate and restarting your machine after each installation.
Please note:
IBM SPSS Amos is a powerful structural equation modeling (SEM) software helping support your research and theories by extending standard multivariate analysis methods, including regression, factor analysis, correlation and analysis of variance.
To obtain the current SPSS Amos licence code please type your username in the field below.
To obtain the SPSS Amos installer, click the link below that is appropriate to your Operating System.
Download the appropriate installer but do not run it until you have a license code.
Version 30: Windows Installer
Once you have obtained the SPSS Amos installer and licence code, you are ready to install the software.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/it/apps/matlab:
Matlab is a multi-paradigm numerical computing environment and proprietary programming language.
Goldsmiths has a campus-wide license for Matlab, Simulink, and companion toolboxes.
The license covers on-campus and home software use for all students and staff.
To receive a Matlab licence by email, please type your username in the field below.
Please request a license before starting the installation.
IT and Digital Services does not provide training on Matlab.
Before starting the installation process, please request a license as per instructions at the top of this page.
1.
In your browser go to mathworks.com 2.
Click on Log In and then on Create Account 3.
Enter the following details :
4.
Click Create 5.
You will receive a verification email to your Goldsmiths email account.
In your Goldsmiths email find the email sent from service@mathworks.com and click the Verify your email button.
6.
Now you will be prompted to finish creating your profile.
Fill in your details:
7.
Scroll down the page and enter the License Number you received via email and click Create.
8.
Click the Download icon 9.
Click on the most current version of Matlab 10.
Select the Windows (64-bit) button 11.
Double click the downloaded file, the application will Self-Extract and launch the installer 12.
In the installer select Log in with a MathWorks Account and click Next 13.
Accept the License Agreement by selecting Yes and then click Next 14.
Enter the Email address and Password you created earlier and click Next 15.
Make sure Select a license is selected, then click Next and then Next again 16.
If you know exactly which packages you need from MATLAB you can individually select them otherwise click Next and then Next again 17.
Click Install, let the installer run, then click Next 18.
Select Activate MATLAB and click Next and Next again until you can click on Confirm and then Finish.
Select the Mac OSX button 11.
Double click the downloaded file, the installer will extract, then click on InstallforMacOSX then click on Open 12.
Enter your Mac admin password and click OK 13.
In the installer select Log in with a MathWorks Account and click Next 14.
Accept the License Agreement by selecting Yes and then click Next 15.
Enter the Email address and Password you created earlier and click Next 16.
Make sure Select a license is selected, then click Next and then Next again 17.
If you know exactly which packages you need from MATLAB you can individually select them otherwise click Next and then Next again 18.
Click Install, let the installer run, then click Next 19.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/contact/public-complaints:
As a large organisation operating numerous buildings and providing a wide range of activities through the work of around 1,500 staff, the College understands that on occasion people or organisations external to the University may be dissatisfied or concerned about the way the College, its staff or students have acted.
We seek to use feedback to improve the facilities and activities we offer, while always protecting legitimate academic freedom.
While we are open to feedback on the College’s activities from the widest range of stakeholders, there are certain categories of people who have redress to other forms of feedback and complaint procedures:
Complaints about research integrity will not generally be handled under this policy and concerns relating to research ethics should instead be referred to our procedure for Dealing with Allegations of Academic and Scientific Misconduct, set out at in Safeguarding Research Practice (PDF) .
This policy is not designed to handle complaints relating to the disclosure of information under Data Protection, Freedom of Information and/or Environmental Information Regulations, which should be handled via the appropriate procedures set out at in our Data Protection and Freedom of Information sections.
Universities are spaces for research into, and discussion of, a wide range of politically and socially sensitive subjects.
We have a statutory duty to uphold freedom of speech, and to protect the ability of our staff to explore controversial topics within the limits of the law.
We are therefore not usually able to consider complaints that relate to the content of academic material or events.
The College is not usually able to handle complaints about Goldsmiths Students’ Union.
The Students’ Union is an independent body, both a registered charity in its own right and with its own management structure and governance board.
Complaints about the Students’ Union should be addressed through their own procedures in the first instance: www.goldsmithssu.org/surveys/feedback/complaints/
The College reserves the right not to investigate or take any action in relation to any complaints received anonymously or received on behalf of an anonymous complainant through a third party.
The College reserves the right to decline to consider any complaints which are merely frivolous, vexatious, defamatory, abusive and/or motivated by malice, or to enter into continuing correspondence about such complaints.
Bearing in mind the limitations set out above, if you have cause for complaint about the activities or behaviour of the College, its staff or students, you are encouraged to try first to resolve the matter informally, in consultation with either the person who has caused the complaint, or (where relevant) with that person’s line manager, or with another appropriate person within the area of Goldsmiths where the complaint has arisen.
(See our Report a Problem or Contact page for help finding the correct person.)
Should that approach not prove satisfactory, you should put your complaint in writing.
This should include:
Complaints should be sent in writing to the Executive Office at executiveoffice (@gold.ac.uk) .
Your complaint will then be allocated to the appropriate senior manager who will acknowledge receipt (and, if possible, arrange an initial response) within 7 working days.
In order for a complaint to be considered, it should be received within two calendar months after the date on which the event causing the complaint occurred.
If the complaint is received any later, we will exercise discretion as to whether or not to investigate the matter.
A response will be made within 30 calendar days of receipt of your complaint.
If the investigation cannot be completed in that time for good reason (such as staff unavailability due to leave) or the matter is complex, you will be advised of a revised timescale.
We will maintain confidentiality throughout the complaints process, revealing information to others only to the extent necessary to complete a proper investigation and make a considered response.
You should be aware than in some cases, this may involve identifying you as the complainant.
If the complaint relates to the conduct of a student or a member of staff, this may be investigated under the relevant disciplinary procedure.
In common with many other organisations and in line with data protection law, it is unlikely to be possible to provide details of the outcomes of any such disciplinary procedure to external parties.
However, we are committed to learning broader lessons from such processes, and will amend our policies and procedures in light of relevant findings.
In the event that you still remain dissatisfied following receipt of our response, you may request that the matter should be referred to the Warden for review.
In cases involving the College’s administration (rather than academic activities), the Warden may ask the Registrar & Secretary to conduct the review.
The Warden’s decision (or that of the Registrar & Secretary) will be final; there is no appeal against his or her decision.
Final responses will be made within 30 calendar days of receipt of the request for review.
If the review cannot be completed in that time for good reason (such as staff unavailability due to leave) or the matter is complex, you will be advised of a revised timescale.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/press:
Our proactive press office handles media enquiries, writes press releases and statements, researches and pitches articles, and monitors media coverage of Goldsmiths, University of London.
Patrick Edwards, Media Relations Manager: 020 7919 7486.
Kryssa Burakowski, Media Relations and Content Officer: +44 20 7919 7703
Email: pressoffice@gold.ac.uk
The Media Relations office is open from 9am-5pm, Monday to Friday.
If you have an enquiry outside of these hours please call the duty phone on 07713 301827 .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/hate-crime-reporting:
If you have experienced or witnessed a hate crime or hate incident then Goldsmiths can help you report it to the police or local authority.
If you have experienced or witnessed a hate crime or hate incident and want to tell the police, the quickest way to report a hate crime is by contacting the Metropolitan Police on 101 or completing an online report here .
You can report by giving your personal details or by doing so anonymously.
Unless you state otherwise, your report will be passed on to the police.
Please be aware that Goldsmiths will not be responsible for determining the circumstances of the report, the investigation of the report, or the gathering of evidence in relation to the report.
You can also report a hate crime using our Report and Support system .
If you believe it is an emergency situation where someone is in immediate danger you should contact the police by calling 999.
If you are a student at Goldsmiths reporting a hate crime or hate incident, we will be able to signpost you to support from internal and external support services if appropriate.
This may include referring you to:
If you are a member of staff reporting a hate crime or hate incident , we will be able to refer you to the Staff Assistance Programme if appropriate.
If you are a member of the public reporting a hate crime or hate incident our staff will be able to signpost you to appropriate local groups and services for support.
These include:
A hate crime is any criminal offence where the victim has been targeted because of their protected characteristics, such as race or ethnicity, religion or belief, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability.
A hate incident is an incident that does not constitute a criminal offence but causes alarm, distress or harassment where the victim has been targeted because of their protected characteristics.
You can find out more about these issues on the Crown Prosecution Service website .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/contact/procurement:
Goldsmiths is reviewing its procurement processes.
Information will be published to this page following the review.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/accommodation/contact:
Here’s who to contact about the day-to-day running of your accommodation.
Go to: Campus Living Villages contact page
07967 221 656 / ewenhendersoncourt.general@unitestudents.com
Out-of-hours Unite Students emergency central control helpdesk: 0300 303 1611
Maintenance: Report using your Unite account or the MyUnite app .
Main contact: 020 7919 7192 / accommodation@gold.ac.uk
Security: 020 7919 7192
Reporting maintenance issues: Online / 020 7919 7121 / estates@gold.ac.uk
07860 957 038 / quantumcourt.general@unitestudents.com
Monday-Sunday 10am-7pm: 01423 740 663
Out-of-hours security and helpdesk: 01423 740 663
If you have a question about your accommodation not answered on our website, you can contact Accommodation Services for help.
Our team can assist with anything you need, and they can provide advice if you live in non-Goldsmiths managed halls and have been unable to resolve things directly with your accommodation provider's reception.
The Accommodation Services office is generally staffed all day.
However, some of our team members may be working from home.
Administrative staff can be contacted weekdays between 9am - 5pm, excluding Bank Holidays and College closure days.
Security and Campus Support Officers are available to support students outside of these times.
To book an appointment either in person, on Teams or on the telephone, please use the contact details below and tell us what it is that you wish to discuss.
This will ensure we can arrange for you to speak to the relevant team member.
Accommodation Services are located in the Loring Management Centre.
Find it on the Campus Map .
020 7919 7192 / accommodation (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/assessments/researchdegreeexaminations:
The Research Degrees unit within the Graduate School oversees all aspects of MPhil and PhD examinations.
Our Guideline documents set out the Research Degree Examination process in detail.
Candidates should read the relevant Guidelines prior to registering for the Examination.
Supervisors, who are responsible for the appointment of Examiners and for supporting Candidates throughout the examination should also read these Guidelines.
Links to all our forms are also included below.
We are here to offer guidance and support to Candidates, Supervisors, Examiners, and Academic Departments at any stage of the process; so please do get in touch via email: research-degrees (@gold.ac.uk) .
As per the CG1 - Guidelines for Research Degree Candidate and Supervisors (PDF) , please be aware that MPhil and PhD thesis submissions are in digital format only (no soft-bound copies required, unless this is requested by Examiners).
For more information, please contact research-degrees (@gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/graduate-school/research-training:
Graduate School provides universal training for research students, preparing them for programme challenges.
A Graduate School induction programme is held at the start of each term, with a week-long event in September.
This programme aims to introduce a range of key matters, including policies, training and the nature of the doctoral student experience.
It also integrates with Departmental induction events, which give information specific to their discipline.
This year’s induction programme is currently under development.
The Graduate School Seminar Series, which is open to all doctoral students, covers a wide range of key topics pertinent to different stages of the doctoral journey, from presentation skills to preparing for upgrade.
Seminars are usually held from 3 - 4 pm, on Mondays, during term time.
This module provides an interdisciplinary introduction to qualitative traditions of social research.
It aims to give you an understanding of some of the main forms of qualitative research, offer opportunities to develop the skills for conducting qualitative research, and help you in reading and assessing research publications.
The course is also designed to offer you opportunities to discuss your research and exchange ideas with students from a range of disciplines.
The course is designed as an introduction for those with little or no previous experience of this methodology.
Core Qualitative Research Methods is open to all MRes and MPhil/PhD students at Goldsmiths.
Full information is available on learn.gold (VLE) .
These modules are designed to help researchers to understand and gain skills in quantitative research.
Researchers may choose complete one or both modules, depending on their training needs.
However, entry to Modelling Social Data II requires successful completion of Modelling Social Data I or demonstration of prior learning and sufficient background in quantitative methods to ensure you will be able to engage successfully in Modelling Social Data II.
Modelling Social Data I will give you advanced training in the application of quantitative methods in social research.
You'll have the opportunity to carry out exploratory secondary analysis of official and other data sets, using SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences).
You'll learn the importance of quantitative data analysis to any understanding of the social.
The emphasis is the conceptual appreciation of the statistical techniques and the ability to select and use different social statistical methods depending on their appropriateness for the research problem and the data collected.
Rather than requiring students to reproduce the mathematical underpinnings of statistical techniques, this module develops an intuitive conceptual understanding of how statistical and quantitative methods structure datasets and how we can perform analyses to better understand that structure and test hypotheses.
Modelling Social Data II will introduce you to extensions to multivariate techniques covered in Modelling Social Data I.
Specifically, you'll explore issues of time, space, and latency through the modelling process.
While linear regression techniques remain the ‘go to’ approach for analysing survey data, there are numerous ways in which models can be derived that better ‘fit’ the data.
This module is all about making such advancements in a way that gradually builds on prior knowledge.
Full information is available on learn.gold (VLE)
The LTHE pathway (consisting of two 15-credit modules) comprises Stage 1 of the wider Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education (PGCHE) Programme (itself 4x15 credit modules overall).
The LTHE pathway is aimed both at registered MPhil/PhD students and at postdoctoral researchers who are either new to university teaching or otherwise have limited learning and teaching experience in higher education.
Participants will have opportunities to critically explore and discuss educational theories and the practice of learning and teaching in higher education and reflect on scholarly and practitioner activities, including professional development, both individually and collectively, with academic and professional peers.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/graduate-school/contact-us:
Find contact information and details for a member of staff in the Graduate School or your departmental PGR contact
Goldsmiths, University of London Whitehead Building, room WB117 New Cross London SE14 6NW
graduateschool (@gold.ac.uk)
Dean of the Graduate School Email: m.johnson@gold.ac.uk
Head of the Graduate School Office Email: c.robson (@gold.ac.uk)
Graduate School Secretary Email: sarah.reed (@gold.ac.uk)
Doctoral Support Manager Email: l.sperring (@gold.ac.uk)
Doctoral Training and Support Officer Email: c.hallrodriguez (@gold.ac.uk)
Doctoral Support Officer Email: g.peat (@gold.ac.uk)
Doctoral Support Officer
Email: jackson-mooney (@gold.ac.uk)
Adnan Madani & Emily Rosamond (Advanced Practice); Susan Schuppli & Başak Ertur(Research Architecture); Lynn Turner and Antony Faramelli (Visual Cultures)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/graduate-school/funding:
Dedicated funds are available to support postgraduate research in several ways at Goldsmiths.
Postgraduate research students can apply for support from the Graduate School Fund to attend conferences, organise student-led conferences and for student-generated publication ideas.
There are three deadlines a year for applications to this fund, and complete details of how to make an application can be found on the dedicated Graduate School Grant.
Current students are also encouraged to check with their Department’s Postgraduate Research Administrator for any opportunities for support funding they can offer.
Goldsmiths are pleased to be part of three prestigious Research Council-funded Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs), providing training and funded studentships to talented Home and EU students.
The three DTPs each include several partner universities, offering funding and an enriching, collaborative training experience.
Full funding details available via each DTPs, including how to apply, can be found on the dedicated pages below.
Our applicants (whether prospective students or students in their first year of study) are advised to check eligibility and enquire early if they wish to apply.
Builds pathways to Professorship for Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic Women addresses barriers to doctoral study for racially minoritised students, especially women of colour.
Please see our website .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/graduate-school/graduate-school-funds:
Guidelines and application instructions for Goldsmiths' Graduate School Grant
The Graduate School Grant (formerly the Graduate School Fund) supports Goldsmiths doctoral researchers with research expenditure that is important for the successful completion of their PhD, or for costs associated with disseminating their PhD findings.
We also welcome applications for community building projects.
Before beginning your application, please read the Graduate School Grant Application Guidelines (PDF) .
It should outline all the critical information you need to apply.
The application deadlines for the 2025/26 academic year are:
All applications should be made via the following Graduate School Grant Application Form .
You must complete the form and upload a Word document containing a budget breakdown and application statement.
You will also need to contact your supervisor and request a statement of support, which can be pasted into the online form.
Graduate School Grant Application Guidelines (PDF) .
The Graduate School Fund allowed me to take part in the First Positive Psychology Summit, 2019 that took place from April 26 to April 28.
The funding (£508) gave me an excellent opportunity to not only present results from my first-year experiment in collaboration with Abracademy but also deliver a workshop where I was able to collect data for an ongoing study.
The experiment involved using magic as a tool to help foster a more supportive community with first-year Goldsmiths students.
The Positive Psychology Summit represents the applied side of research in the growing and expanding science of positive psychology.
The summit included talks on a range of topics for both researchers and practitioners.
These included academic topics like how to expand measures beyond questionnaires, advice on publishing applied research papers, implementing character strengths in education, and also more presentations such as an executive coaching masterclass, Lego-themed facilitation strategies, and more.
As my career goals are to pursue academic research and extend it to real-world consulting, the conference was an ideal opportunity for my development.
I am very grateful to the Goldsmith’s Graduate School for making this a reality because I would otherwise not have had this opportunity and am excited to see what further opportunities this summit will open up.
The Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, SARMAC, is an international conference that gathers academically interested in a variety of areas related to human memory.
This year, I will be presenting two of my PhD studies to SARMAC XIII, and this will offer me a great opportunity to gather important feedback on my research.
Talking, and exchanging ideas with more experienced researchers interested in my field will likely give me new insights into my own area of research.
Furthermore, I believe that the study I would present will be of great interest, and I hope this will lead to potential collaboration on future research exploring the relationship between witnesses’ confidence and accuracy.
Finally, I am in the final year of my PhD, and among my most important priorities there is the dissemination of findings and networking; SARMAC XIII would be a great opportunity to present my recent studies, as well as meet and talk to people I will hopefully be working with in the near future.
The Graduate School helped my funding this experience and made it possible for me to attend such an interesting but expensive conference.
The Graduate Fund enabled me to go and present my PhD research at the British Sociological Association Annual conference 2019 at Glasgow Caledonian University.
It was the first time I presented on my overall idea of the PhD and so helpful in focusing the argument of my thesis into a 15 minute presentation.
The presentation was on Thursday 25 April at 11.00 as part of the 'Race Ethnicity and Migration' stream on the panel entitled 'Migration and Young People'.
I received useful feedback on my presentation 'Young people subject to immigration control in the UK: A life out of control?' which will contribute to the development of my thesis as I finalise it over the next months
The term 'New Silk Road' describes the phenomenon of revived trading routes across the Eurasian landmass which are often related to Chinese investment in infrastructures.
For my PhD project in Visual Sociology, I follow one of such reestablished routes along the China-Europe rail corridor to investigate its visible and invisible impacts on the social and built fabrics of the places it connects.
My multi-sited fieldwork is ambitious yet crucial to fully fathom the complete sense of physical scale and visual appearance of the New Silk Road.
By boarding trains from Yiwu, China to Madrid in Spain, I take stock at key points, which allow me to explore relevant places where the train, goods, people and the built environment get 'entangled', and thus constitute place (Ingold 2007:103).
Using a set of qualitative methods, including still and moving image recordings and spatial mapping, this research adds the missing human layer of existing scholarship on the New Silk Road, which is thus far dominated by economists and political scientists who overlook socio-spatial aspects of globalisation.
Thankfully, the Graduate School Fund supports my fieldwork plans and enables me to gather experiences and material which will eventually compose an immersive exhibition as part of my final submission.
Without it, my research would not stand out as much as it could from other work that is currently being done on the topic.
Please see (and follow) my journey on Twitter: @Laura_Henneke
The Graduate School Fund provided support for my travel to Canada to interview research participants for my doctoral research.
My dissertation project is about the politics of internet policy in Canada and a seminal component of this endeavour is face-to-face interviews with a range of participants involved in internet policy development, including lobbyists, members of parliament, journalists, activists, academics and regulators.
During my time in Canada, I interviewed nearly forty participants and was able to attend events and regulatory proceedings relevant to my research.
The support of the Graduate School Fund allowed me to focus on my research during this period and spend the time I needed in Canada to meet and exceed my personal goals for this component of my project.
The Graduate School has funded my ‘ L evantine Arabic Intermediate 3’ course at SOAS University .
The knowledge of Arabic Levantine dialect is fundamental for my PhD research on the Dheisheh refugee camp (Bethlehem, West Bank).
As an undergraduate, I have studied classic Arabic and, during my time in Palestine and in the Dheisheh camp, I realised the importance of speaking dialect for having a more direct and productive dialogue with the inhabitants of the camp.
I am sure my research will benefit greatly from this course.
The Graduate School funded my participation in the biennial Summer Convention of the Association for Slavic, Eastern European and Eurasian Studies in Zagreb, Croatia, 14-16 June 2019.
The bursary permitted me to attend and present a paper at the ASEEES conference, which is one of the leading international institutions supporting and disseminating research in this subject area.
I was able to gain invaluable feedback on my own research from colleagues working in the field and to establish international contacts with academics who had travelled to Zagreb from Europe, Asia and North America.
I also familiarised myself with the current research of a number of colleagues from Bulgaria (the country I focus on in my own PhD) and whose work I usually have little access to due to me being based in the UK.
Attending the ASAP Symposium in Hong Kong
The Graduate School Fund assisted me in attending the annual symposium for the Association for the Arts of the Present (ASAP) held in Hong Kong in June 2019.
The theme of the symposium this year was ‘Old Lands, New Ground’ and my contribution addressed traditional crafts and their relevance to the ‘technological age’ in the context of artificial intelligence replacing manual tasks.
The symposium, held at the Tai Kwun Centre for Heritage and the Arts, offered an ideal platform for presenting my lecture-performance entitled ‘Encountering new ground in the process of fabrication’.
This was the first time I presented the Crochet Resistance Suit: a sculptural wearable sound object and the story of how it was made.
I received some very constructive feedback and questions that have allowed me to think through how to develop this project into the next phase (I went on to present the lecture-performance on my return for the Annual Post-Graduate Conference at Goldsmiths University on 14 June 2019 with some amendments after the Hong Kong presentation).
The ASAP symposium had a strong focus on Asian art and art history and this was invaluable for my own PhD research which has its theoretical foundation in Asian/Japanese and Buuddhist philosophy.
I was also amongst a diverse group of academics, curators and artists so discussions and conversations were particularly relevant to my work.
The intensity of the symposium timetable allowed for ongoing interaction and exchange with fellow attendees many of whom I remain in contact with.
While in Hong Kong I met an organisation running an art residency, recommended to me by a fellow Goldsmiths University researcher.
I will be applying for the residency so it was a great way to introduce myself to the curator and organisers.
I also took the time to visit the south part of Hong Kong island where a number of independent art galleries have opened in industrial buildings and there, I discovered many Chinese and Hong Kong artists I hadn’t previously been aware of.
Overall my trip to Hong Kong was a great opportunity to present a very important chapter in my research, to make new contacts with academics and artists with a particular interest in Asia and to get to know the ASAP organisation, with whom I hope to continue my involvement.
I wish to thank the Graduate School Fund for making this experience possible.
The Graduate School Fund award of £630 enabled me to attend the 69th Annual International Communication Association (ICA) Conference in Washington D.C.
(2019).
ICA is one of the most prestigious academic conferences in the world on digital media and social change.
I presented my research as part of a multi-person panel titled “Pushing the Boundaries: New Frontiers for the Study of Audiences to Mediated Distant Suffering and Global Inequality.” As a second-year PhD candidate, taking part in the conference was crucial to my academic journey for a variety of reasons.
First, participating on the panel pushed me to organize and synthesize in-progress research for public consumption.
Second, it provided me with an invaluable opportunity for community building and feedback amongst fellow panel members and conference attendees.
Third, being able to attend several other panel and paper presentations at the conference allowed me to get a sense of the range of relevant current research.
Lastly, the experience provided me with a more thorough understanding of research expectations after the completion of a PhD.
For all of these reasons and more I have greatly benefited from my experience at ICA and am grateful for the support from the Graduate School Fund.
Prague Quadrennial of Performance Design and Space
The Graduate School Fund gave me the wonderful opportunity to attend the 14 th Prague Quadrennial of Performance Design and Space and participate in the ‘Material Interactions: A Journey in Movement’ three-day workshop run by scenographer, researcher and writer Donatella Barbieri, choreographer Mary Kate Connolly and costume designer Giulia Pecorari.
Established in 1967, PQ is the largest international festival of theatre and stage design with 600 performances and over 800 artists from 79 countries participating in this year’s event.
Its mission is to act as “a global catalyst of creative progress by encouraging experimentation, networking, innovation, and future collaborations.” [1]
Both my participation in the workshop and attending the Prague Quadrennial were fundamental to my practice-based PhD: ‘Insubordinate Costume’, scenographic costume which flouts practicalities and textual confines to embrace the role of protagonist.
The workshop explored an important aspect of my research: the relationship between materiality and invention, using the moving body as a design tool, whereas PQ gave me the opportunity to observe the use of scenographic costume by other international theatre companies and collectives and meet colleagues from my discipline.
Networking is vital, especially in a niche area like costume design, which has only relatively recently become a subject for academic research.
Attending PQ has strengthened the existing international connections I made while presenting at the Critical Costume Conference in 2018 and provided a platform for me to engage at a high level of critical enquiry with my international peers in refining my process towards probing my research question.
[1] www.pq.cz/what-is-pq/
The Graduate School funded my attendance and participation in the Memory Studies Association conference in at the Complutense University Madrid, 25-28  June 2019.
The fund allowed me to present two papers at the highly specialised international conference.
This was beneficial for my research in a number of ways.
Firstly, the discussion and feedback I received from colleagues working in similar fields was productive for the direction of my project.
Secondly, I was able to form new research contacts with international scholars.
Lastly, attending other panels and keynotes at the conference enabled me to gauge the state of affairs in the discipline and be a part of establishing its future directions.
I am grateful to the Graduate School Fund for its generous support
The Graduate School Fund was a crucial financial and moral support that enabled me to attend and present part of my research in the Memory Studies Association Annual Conference in Madrid in June 2019.
I received the funding (£469.28) while I was on my final year and preparing for my final thesis submission.
Presenting my research to an external cohort of international researchers has been very valuable to finalise and understand better the scope of my thesis, to receive feedback on possible future research avenues after the completion of my PhD, and to situate my research in dialogue with established researchers that are working with aspects of collective memory in the visual arts.
I presented my research as part of the Memory and Arts Working Group; the panel I was part of had a strong focus on contemporary underrepresented visual practices from the Balkans and the ways they work with the complex history and collective memory in the region.
As my research is also dealing with this particular geopolitical reality, this conference was a great opportunity to network, to meet scholars from the region and to discuss future potential collaborations.
More crucially, the conference was a safe space to share and reflect on the ways with which personal memories and narrations can intertwine with aspects of collective memory.
I would like to thank Goldsmiths Graduate School for offering this substantial support.
For more information about the conference and my research .
I received funding support to attend the biennial conference of the Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition (in Cape Cod Massachusetts) and give a presentation of my work on the metacognition of highly skilled liars.
The conference attracts a truly global community of academics, professionals and practitioners, and the feedback I received during my talk and informally in various break-out sessions afterwards was encouraging and stimulating and I know it will improve my work.
Conference attendance is vital for so many reasons.
I was able to attend both the Women in Cognitive Science panel discussion and a workshop on Barriers in the Worldwide Scientific Community which examined the systematic exclusion of international colleagues from events (such as conferences) and collaborative research projects.
Both were enormously important for my development as a researcher and an academic.
My lab at Goldsmiths (the Forensic Psychology Unit) is already committed to Open Science but it was interesting to learn how even this can perpetuate the same inequalities already in place if we don’t apply the principles in a way that actively considers existing privilege.
E.g.
creating open-source materials that are only available in one language.
I had already noticed an uplift in the number of hits on my Researchgate, Academia.edu and Linkedin pages just from having my name in the online conference programme and after a week of face-to-face networking that interest turned into concrete connections and an increased network of other ECRs and established academics.
This will be invaluable as I enter the phase of my PhD that requires approaching an external examiner and potential collaborators for Post-doctoral applications.
I am very grateful for the Graduate School Fund's support for my participation in the Oxford Internet Institute's summer doctoral programme.
The programme takes place every summer over the course of two weeks and brings together up to thirty doctoral researchers from around the world working in the area of internet studies.
Over the course of the fortnight, I had the opportunity to hear lectures from OII faculty, take part in workshops focused on a range of computational methods and present my own research.
Most importantly perhaps, I had the chance to meet and engage with a range of other doctoral students who are working on similar or complementary projects, many of whom I expect will remain a part of my academic journey for a long time to come.
The Graduate School Fund provided me with a cost of travel (a direct return flight from London to Bangkok).
I presented a paper at the 13 th Anthropological Conference on ‘ Human in Digital Era ’ in my home country, Thailand between the 4th and 6th of July 2019 at Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn Centre (Public Organisation).
My paper titled ‘ Digital Ethnography: Concepts, Methods, Debates, and Challenges for Research in Thai Society’ .
I presented a paper on the 5th of July at 13.00.
It was grouped to present in ‘Digital Anthropology’ panel.
It was an excellent opportunity to present my doctoral research on a methodological use.
Digital ethnography is an emerging methodology in Sociology, Anthropology, and Data Science.
Thai academic audiences were highly interested in my presentation.
They gave valuable feedbacks, asked critical questions, and discussed on the issue.
The feedbacks, questions, and discussion enabled me to rethink and revise my thesis before submission as well as a preparation for my viva.
Moreover, I am happy that my paper will be accepted to publish in the conference proceeding.
Dissemination of research finding is a goal of PhD study here.
The presentation and discussion of my paper about 30 minutes enhanced me to develop professionalism as a Thai scholar.
Firstly, the conference opened an opportunity to build research networks in Thailand and widen research communities beyond the UK.
Secondly, the practice of research presentation to academic audiences helped me to develop communication skill.
Thirdly, the presentation of a paper in a conference room and through Facebook live was an excellent opportunity to promote Goldsmiths to audiences by introducing me as a Goldsmiths Postgraduate researcher and using a Goldsmiths PowerPoint template (please see the photos below).
Thank you the Graduate School for your support.
My mission was not completed without you!
Thanks to the Graduate School I was able to travel to Amsterdam and present my research ‘Losing and Recovering Heritage through the Archive: The Case of Dvije Sirote/Two Orphans in the Silent Period of Yugoslav Cinema’ on an expert panel at the 10 th Women and the Silent Screen Conference, EYE Filmmuseum.
My fellow panellists include Professor David Mayer, Professor Elena Mosconi, Dr Victoria Duckett and Helen Day-Mayer.
My participation on this panel was essential to developing my knowledge and network with the most recognized professionals in the field.
The conference also provided a great opportunity for informal interaction with the panellists through luncheons, so this was an added benefit in terms of the overall experience of the conference.
Being a FIAF-trained archivist, in addition to my academic expertise, was especially beneficial in terms of my contribution to the conference as I had the archival proficiency to present my research and enrich the overall quality of the panel from a practical as well as theoretical point-of-view.
As a result of attending I will be able to re-assess my methodology when it comes to researching early cinema and film cultures.
Moreover, I will be able to stay in touch with the Museum in future and to develop international collaboration.
The Graduate School Funding helped me to attend a training workshop in Neurocognitive methods in infant and toddler research at the University of Utrecht, in the Netherlands, 8-12 June 2019.
The summer school is organized by Dr Carlijn van den Boomen and sponsored by Dynamics of Youth, which mainly supports research on child development.
The summer school goal is to inform early researchers with frequently applied methods in brain, cognition and behaviour research with infants and toddlers.
The summer school started the Baby Brain and Cognition Symposium, which is about the developmental cognitive neuroscience, focusing on development in the first years of life.
The course was a week and trained early researchers in gathering, handling and analysing data sourced neurocognitive methods.
We had method lectures, such as EEG, eye tracking and behavioural techniques.
Besides, every day we had subgroup discussions, talked about issues and problems we came across with the other participants and tutors.
There was a plenary discussion with the lecturer, to ask questions about a particular technique.
My PhD research investigates whether infants can perceive primary emotions in music.
Also, how family music environment influence on this skill.
Currently, I run a behavioural study to examine infants’ preferences.
Working with infants is challenging; you need to adapt your techniques during the study.
So, attending this course taught me how to overcome theoretical and practical issues with study design, data acquisition and analyses.
Also, it is an excellent networking opportunity for me to meet other PhD students around the world.
We exchange ideas, and I received valuable feedback from them.
I appreciate the support I received from the Graduate School; it covered my course fee, accommodation and travel expenses.
I attended the conference "Afterlives of Slavery", hosted by Goldsmiths' Centre for Caribbean and Diasporic Studies, in July this year in order to give a paper and listen to others.
It was an extremely fruitful experience, making me engage with my work in a different way and allowing plenty of opportunities for debate and to meet other people - some who I have known for some time, others who I met on this occasion.
I am grateful for the grant given to me by the Graduate School that allowed me to attend this conference.
The £500 support from Graduate School is contributing to the registration fee of the summer school at the University of Helsinki (in August 2019) which cost €900.
Attending the summer school in my field (English as a Lingua Franca (ELF)) was highly recommended by my supervisor.
The theme of the course covered the latest conceptualisation of ELF as a manifestation of multilingualism, which is also one of the latest research trends in the field.
Different methodologies were also covered in the course, such as Conversation Analysis, corpus linguistics, and ethnography, which are relevant to enhance my research skills.
Moreover, in the academic presentation session at the end of the course, I presented part of my PhD project, which expands the field into a new research context that is yet to be explored – the healthcare context, and showed fellow (student) researchers the potential of investigating it.
Therefore, participating in the summer school not only gave me knowledge and skills that are beneficial for my current study and future development, but also allowed me to contribute to the field too.
I would not be able to achieve all these without the funding from the Graduate School.
Therefore, I am grateful for the contribution that Graduate School made to support my research.
ROBE wouldn't have been possible without the support from the Graduate Fund and we are all so grateful for the support you have given us.
ROBE is a one-act opera which premiered at The Place in London as part of Tete-a-Tete: the Opera Festival on 6th August, 2019.
Supported by Help Musicians UK, the Hinrichsen Foundation and the Goldsmiths Graduate Fund, Music Research Committee and Music Department, it was shortlisted for a Creative Edinburgh Award for Collaboration and is currently being recorded for a CD release in 2020.
The opera proceeds from the conceit that virtual reality has existed since the dawn of time, in that books, theatres - even the clothes we wear - are examples of machines which transform and augment our perception of the world.
Through this, ROBE uses the intersections between dance, fashion and opera to explore how the implications of future technologies such as A.I.
and cyberspace may have their origin in ancient, forgotten pasts.
An experiment in the application of contemporary materialist philosophy to compositional practice, the creation of the work was fundamental to the development of new approaches to contemporary opera.
“White's music has an intriguing elaboration to it, with instruments and voices executing striking arabesques, jagged and angular, and the resulting textures successfully evoked the strange abstract world of cyberspace, creating a real sense of non-reality…The performances from all conce rned were excellent.” - Robert Hugill, Planet Hugill
I am grateful for the assistance to the tune of £473.90 I received from the Graduate School Funding Scheme to support my attendance at the EMES PhD Summer School at the Glasgow Caledonian University.
The PhD Summer School, which took place from June 22-25, 2016, is the only one of its kind to cater to the development needs of Post Graduate Research Students in the field of Social Entrepreneurship, Social Enterprise and Social Economy.
It brought together students from across Europe, Central America, Asia, Africa, North America, South America and the Caribbean.
It gave me the opportunity to meet, share ideas with and receive valuable feedback on my research from the scholars in the field of study.
I used the funds granted to cover cost of registration to the Summer School; accommodation at the Glasgow Caledonian University for 3 nights, inclusive of meals, and return travel by train to Glasgow, Scotland.
PhD candidate Sarah Charalambides received a contribution towards the costs of presenting papers at the following conferences in June and July 2016:
All four conferences were highly significant events concerning key academic debates on feminist art, gender and precarity.
My research into contemporary feminist art practices and methodologies that interrogate the normalisation of unstable, insecure and flexible labour conditions in neoliberal, post-Fordist capitalism found fertile ground for debate and expansion.
Presenting my papers at these conferences allowed me to contribute to and learn about the most recent advances in my field of research and gave me the opportunity to advocate my PhD project as well as to develop and improve my academic presentation skills.
As I am only a partially funded postgraduate student, financial contributions are very significant for me.
Therefore I would like to thank the Graduate School Fund for its generous support.
I was generously funded by the Graduate School to present my work at the University of Kent's 'Thinking Through Fiction' conference at their Canterbury campus.
It was a two-day interdisciplinary event of panels, round tables and forums which enabled people to present papers and perform readings across an array of focuses.
I was introduced to Spider Fiction, Particle Fiction, novel-writing as (new age) religious practice, and a moving critique of Southern Gothic.
There was an evening event at The Parrot (a pub established in 1370!) of readings and a buffet.
This gave me the chance to develop an invaluable network of people who are doing some fascinating things with and within fiction.
I presented my work at the end of the second day, giving a demonstration of how first-person narration acts on place in my novel-in progress.
I came away from the conference with some interesting critique on my writing, advice and support from those further along their career paths, more confidence in presenting my work to an audience, an overwhelming amount of inspiration from my fellow presenters, a reading list, and vital new connections.
As of October 2016 I will be an AHRC CHASE scholar, and I am excited to be part of a consortium that facilitates such a diverse and welcoming intellectual exchange.
I was awarded £500 by the Graduate School to help organise an international conference titled 'Caribbean and Diasportic Dialogues in the University'.
This three day conference challenged the limited visibility of Carribean and Diaspora Studies in many higher education institutions and interrogated the ways in which the precarious presence/absence of indigenised black thought, currently being highlighted primarily through protest within, for example, higher education culture in countries like the UK, might be transformed.
The theme of the conference fostered and developed multi- and interdisciplinary conversations exploring critical, theoretical, historical and creative questions in a number of related fields that together contribute to Carribbean and Diaspora Studies.
Keynotes were delivered by Professor Paul Gilroy, Professor Ann Phoenix and Professor Cecile Wright.
Conference handbook, panels and bios for all presenters can be found at https://caribbeananddiasporic.wordpress.com/
The event was attended by academics and postgraduate students from local, national and international HEI's.
This event provided the students on the organising committee with invaluable skills which will be highly beneficial to their careers.
The postgraduate students who attended gained a valuable insight into the themes addressed by the conference note.
On a more personal note, at the time I did not realise how the conference would shape my frame of mind enabling me to successfully pass the PhD viva the day after the conference ended.
Overall this was an extremely successful event and I extend my warmest thanks to the Graduate School for their support.
PhD candidate and playwright Karen Morash staged her full length play Playground in a professional production on the London fringe.
The production formed an important part of her research into traditional versus collaborative methodologies in dramatic writing.
The play ran 28 April- 1 May 2016 at the London Theatre, New Cross.
The Graduate School supported Morash's innovative research by providing funds for items essential to the full staging of the play, including stage props, costumes, and design materials.
Edwina was granted £600 to pilot a listening session featuring the life work of the late, great Gregory Isaacs.
This is fundamental to her research which uses his music to explore the value and role of reggae music.
Group listening (primarily sound systems and the radio) has played a vital role in reggae's development and propagation and great claims are made for this communal format.
Therefore it is imperative that techniques are developed to embrace and interrogate this.
Edwina said the funding allowed her to do just that.
She hired the venue, Brilliant Corners, which houses high end aduio equipment specifically tuned for vinyl.
She hired video and audio recording equipment to capture the session and enable full transcription of the discussion.
She was also able to offer her respondents light refreshments.
Edwina felt the session worked very well.
Attendance was good, with a great mix of male/female participants.
It also attracted music personnel of various descriptions, fans and a fellow music researcher.
The venue was perfect, small enough to be intimate and encourage conversation, whilst producing a magnificent full sound.
She was able to have a discussion with participants about the music and the strengths and weaknesses of the data gathering instrument.
She also asked both participants for any further suggestions they might have about how to capture listening.
Edwina said these responses and the pilot generally have fine-tuned her approach and will be taken forward as she plans future sessions.
Engaging in Urban Image-making was a one-day symposium hosted by the Centre for Urban and Community Research (CUCR) at Goldsmiths, 28 April 2017.
Anita co-organised the symposium with Gill Golding (Board member of the International Visual Sociology Association) and generously supported by the Graduate School Fund, CUCR, OpenVizor and Urban Photographers Association.
It brought together practitioners from 4 different organisations: Goldsmiths' Sociology department, Photojournalism London College of Communication, Urban Photographers Association and London Independent Photography.
Its purpose was to begin a cross-organisational dialogue about how we engage with urban life in our image-making practices in the 21st century.
It was a fully-booked and packed out event with very diverse, insightful and thought-provoking presentations and discussions that addressed how image making can support our understanding of some of the complexities associated with contemporary urban life.
Due to its success, we hope to make this into an annual event.
For more information, please visit: engaginginurbanimagemaking.wordpress.com
www.anitastrasser.com
The ASSC22 represents the foremost conference in consciousness research and, this year, it took place in Krakow, Poland, between June 26and 30.
The Graduate School Fund (£600) allowed me the opportunity to attend it and disseminate my research as part of a poster presentation, thus enriching my knowledge of and expertise in my field and ticking a crucial box of my experience as a PhD student in the Psychology Department at Goldsmiths, University of London.
The conference included keynotes, symposia, workshops and one-on-one mentor-student sessions that spanned over every field in consciousness research.
I study the sense of agency, which refers to the sense of being in control of our actions and their consequences in the outside world, and which was one of the most popular topics at the conference.
This enabled me to gain valuable feedback from my peers, come into contact with the most recent work of my superiors and get the feel of what might lie ahead for me after I successfully complete my PhD thesis.
I am very grateful to have had this opportunity and thank Goldsmiths, University of London and the Graduate School for their generous gift.
The iCog3 'Sense and Space' conference in London (Senate House) lasted 2.5 days, and had twenty-one presenters.
Two-thirds of them were philosophers and the rest were scientists from different fields of research.
In each session there were two speakers and a general discussion.
The speakers included both established and junior researchers and all communications were very friendly and helpful.
The topics ranged from traditional philosophical problems such as the explanatory gap, phenomenal presence, demonstrative reference, to empirical questions such as attention, cross-modal spatial illusions and oral refferal.
The conference was successful in bringing researchers together to discuss different ideas.
It also created a perfect environment for people to make connections for future collaborations.
The organisers plan to edit a volume that is partially based on the conference and a book proposal is already under review, adding extra value to the conference.
We thank the Goldsmiths Graduate School for its sponsorship.
I applied for funding from the Graduate School in order to attend an advanced training workshop in Advances in Diary Methods for Qualitative Researchers at the University of Southhampton.
THis workshop trains participants in gathering, handling, analysing and reporting data sourced through solicited diary methods.
My PhD research examines the costitutive relationship between bodies and cities looking at how our embodied experience shapes the spaces we live in and vice versa.
To interrogate this relationship I am exploring the interactions that go on in hair and beauty salons and I will be using solicited diaries as a method of asking my participants to write a journal and use photography and film to document their experiences at beauty salons.
Using diary methods I will be able to focus on my research participants' embodied, emplaced, multisensory experiences of city life.
THis cross-disciplinary workshop will look at the practical and ethical as well as the methodological issues which will be crucial in designing my fieldwork.
It will enable me to hone my methodoloical skilsl whilst engaging with students and academics from across the UK working in different disciplines.
I requested finance to cover the cost of presenting a paper in the Arts Management Research Stream at the European Sociological Association (ESA) conference in Prague, 25-28th August 2015.
The ESA is full of all sorts of research and is a very stimulating place to encounter all different types of people and different types of research.
A biennial monster conference takes place in different European cities in every alternate year.
The inbetween year is when the Midterm get togethers happen for each of the Research Networks (and Streams).
With 32 different Research Networks and 10 different Research Streams, it can often be difficult to locate exactly what you want or who you want to see or hear and equally difficult to choose which network or stream to submit your papers to.
Previously, I have attended the ESA conerence in Turin and also in Geneva.
It has taken me a bit of time to work out which networks I would like to be part of.
I tend to choose Sociology of Consumption or Sociology of the Arts because the authors in these networks have research interests closest to mine.
This year, I was invited to help organise the Arts Management Research Stream with Assistant Professor Constance DeVeraux, Director of LEAP Institute for the Arts in Colorado State University, USA and Junior Professor Dr.
Nina Zahner from Leipizig University.
We programmed approximately 20 papers across 3 days in Prague.
We drew from academia as well as cultural practice for the Research Stream.
It went really well and the feedback we received has been very positive.
The presentation of my paper ‘Birds of a feather: an analysis of cultural participation in Ireland’, went well and it’s always good to stand up and ‘own’ your research.
Being supported financially by Goldsmiths Graduate School fund to travel there meant that I was able to take part as a conference participant and as a Research Stream organizer.
This opportunity meant a lot to me.
I reconnected with people I had previously met and I also met new people- some of whom, I had been really keen to meet.
All identified me as part of the esteemed Goldsmiths community of researchers.
I was very lucky to receive funding from the Graduate School to compliment my PhD studies in Theatre through purchasing playtexts and theatre tickets.
The money also went towards my travel around the country to various archives, theatres and festivals.
It meant so much to me to have the ability to research in this way, especially being a self-funded student.
It gave me the ability to attend the breadth of work necessary for my subject and removed the stress of getting to events I wouldn't otherwise have had access to.
The Graduate School Fund gives students with limited resources the ability to fulfill a broader and more indepth research that otherwise would be off limits.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/pg/fees-funding/departmental-awards:
Explore external funding opportunities recommended by the department.
Explore a range of internal funding opportunities.
Discover if there is any funding suitable for you.
Explore funding opportunities for postgraduate Design students.
Take a look at current funding exclusive to Educational Studies students.
Awards and scholarships may be available in this department.
Explore funding opportunities in this department.
Discover internal funding opportunities for Law students.
Explore internal and external funding opportunities.
The Migrant Futures Institute is offering two fully-funded doctoral studentships.
Explore a range of funding opportunities for Music students.
Explore internal funding opportunities for this department.
Psychology students may be eligible for funding.
Internal and external funding may be available for students in this department.
Explore funding opportunities for Sociology students.
Theatre and Performance Students may be eligible for awards and funding.
Explore postgraduate funding for Visual Cultures.
We also offer funding and financial support through Goldsmiths scholarships and bursaries.
Find out more using our Scholarships Finder.
Please note that the information on these pages may be subject to change.
It's worth contacting departments directly for the most up-to-date information about departmental awards.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/studentships:
If you're thinking about applying for a research degree at Goldsmiths, you may be eligible for funding through studentships or scholarships.
Studentships generally cover tuition fees, an annual maintenance grant (sometimes called a 'stipend'), and funding for research training.
You may be eligible for funding for your research degree.
Full details about available Research Council studentships (AHRC/CHASE and ESRC/SeNSS) can be found via the links below.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/scholarships/ahrc:
Goldsmiths is one of nine leading research institutions that are part of CHASE , the Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts Southeast England.
CHASE will be funding at least 56 studentships across nine participating universities commencing in October 2025.
Research projects by MPhil/PhD applicants for any Goldsmiths Department oriented towards Arts and Humanities Research are eligible to be considered for funding.
International students are eligible for all UKRI-funded postgraduate studentships.
If you have already started doctoral study, you may still be eligible for an AHRC studentship funding providing that, at the start of the AHRC funding awarded, you will have at least 50% of your fundable period of study (which excludes the writing up/completion period) remaining.
A student who has started their doctoral studies (unfunded) on a part-time basis is permitted to convert to full-time status upon receipt of an award.
The first stage of the application process is that you must apply for a postgraduate place for your intended programme of study via the standard Goldsmiths application method.
For the majority of Departments, this should be done as soon as possible and absolutely no later than Friday, 10 January 2025 (17:00 GMT).
Please note that the following Departments have set earlier deadlines in order to accommodate internal review processes:
The second stage of the application process is the CHASE AHRC studentship application, made via the CHASE SMApply system).
Any candidate who applies for funding via the CHASE AHRC application process on SMApply who have not already applied for a postgraduate place at Goldsmiths by the relevant admissions application deadline as above will be deemed ineligible.
The deadline for this second stage of the process is Monday 27 January, 2025 12:00 noon GMT .
Please note that access to the SMApply system requires the access code, which for Goldsmiths candidates will be provided by your Departmental CHASE contact (normally the PGR Convenor).
If you have already started your studies and eligible to apply as per the note above, you should email your Departmental CHASE contact to indicate you intend to apply and require the access code.
You are strongly advised to contact the department you are interested in joining for details of their selection processes (including any internal deadlines they may have).
We would also encourage you to discuss the completion of the separate CHASE SMApply application with the relevant Departmental PGR Convenor.
Shortlisted applicants will be informed of the outcome of their application in early May 2025.
Watch a recording of the Goldsmiths’ Applicant Information Workshop .
CHASE is also running a series of applicant information webinars with recordings of previous sessions available on their website .
If you have any queries, please contact the Goldsmiths Graduate School: graduateschool (@gold.ac.uk) .
If the title of your email includes ‘CHASE application’, it will assist us in answering your query as soon as we can.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/scholarships/esrc:
Goldsmiths is a member of the South and East Network of Social Sciences (SENSS) Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) to train the next generation of social scientists.
A range of fully funded studentships are available across eight SENSS partner universities, including Goldsmiths, for entry in October 2025.
There are a variety of flexible routes for research and training, depending on your background and the research you’re planning to undertake.
SENSS positively encourages applicants from talented students whose highest qualification is an undergraduate degree, who may be funded to undertake a master’s programme.
The structure of the studentship offered will depend on your personal training needs.
However, the standard duration of a SENSS-funded studentship is 3.5 years – this covers a PhD and a mandatory placement of approximately three months.
The maximum duration of a studentship will be 4.5 years – this covers a master’s degree followed by a PhD, as well as the mandatory three-month placement.
Information about eligibility and guidance including links to applicant webinars and to the applicant portal may be found on the SENSS website .
The following will Goldsmiths departments are eligible for SeNSS:
Applicants for SENSS studentships are advised first to review their eligibility for this funding.
The process of application is in two parts:
Watch a recording of the Goldsmiths Applicant Information Workshop .
SENSS is also running a series of applicant information webinars with recordings of previous sessions available on their website .
Goldsmiths students who are undertaking social science-led research or interdisciplinary research that crosses arts and humanities and social sciences can apply for funding to pursue research aligned to one of six interdisciplinary thematic pathways.
The pathways are set out below and under each are listed the Goldsmiths departments/subject areas that are considered eligible for that pathway.
In order to apply for SENSS funding in one of the thematic pathways, you must first have applied for a place to study for a research degree in one of the participating subject areas at Goldsmiths.
If the title of your email includes ‘SENSS application’, it will assist us in answering your query as soon as we can.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/scholarships/generation-delta:
These studentships build on and contribute to the OFS / Research England project Generation Delta: Building Routes into Professorship for Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic Women , which seeks to redress barriers to access and participation in doctoral study for racialised students generally and women of colour in particular.
While Generation Delta Goldsmiths Studentships are open to all eligible applicants from Black and racially minoritised backgrounds in any field of study at Goldsmiths, University of London, it is anticipated that at least one award will be made to a woman of colour which is the group most underrepresented nationally in terms of doctoral study and studentship funding.
"The Generation Delta Studentship has been an invaluable opportunity for me, providing me with the resources and support necessary to achieve my academic and professional aspirations.
I am incredibly grateful for this opportunity and I will continue to work hard to make the most of it."
Clémentine Bedos, Generation Delta Champion and PhD Candidate in Art and Computing
Applicants must be new or continuing doctoral students who will not have completed more than one year of full-time or 2 years of part-time registration by the start of the 2025/26 academic year.
This studentship is only open to those eligible for Home fee status.
5pm, 28 March 2025
To apply for a studentship, you'll need to complete the Generation Delta Scholarship application form .
Please read our guidance on how to complete the application form and find out more about the selection process by reading our Generation Delta Studentships Applicant Guidance (PDF) .
View the recording of the applicant information session held on Wednesday 5 February 2025.
If you have any queries or are unable to attend the applicant information session and would like to view a recording of the session please contact the Goldsmiths Graduate School: graduateschool (@gold.ac.uk) using the subject heading ‘Generation Delta Goldsmiths Application’ and including your surname.
Find out more about Goldsmiths scholarships and bursaries regulations .
"Being part of this programme has put me on the pathway of an amazing journey and I feel supported both financially and emotionally in my studies and career.
My future feels more secure, knowing that I will receive mentorship in the years to come, and I wish to thank the Generation Delta leaders for providing me with this amazing opportunity."
Angela Loum, Generation Delta Champion and PhD Candidate in Sociology

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/fees-funding/scholarships/migrant-futures-studentships:
The Graduate School is pleased to announce the call for two fully-funded Migrant Futures Doctoral Studentships
The Graduate School is pleased to announce the call for two fully-funded Migrant Futures Doctoral Studentships that are part of a major grant awarded to Goldsmiths by Oak Foundation to establish a new Migrant Futures Institute (hereafter MFI) at Goldsmiths.
Migrant Futures Doctoral Studentships are central to the MFI’s vision to advance innovative research and training in the field of migration studies and foreground migrant intellectual lives and creative endeavours.
Two doctoral studentships for entry in 2025-26.
These are fully-funded studentship that may be held on a full-time (FT) or part-time (PT) basis, pro-rata, over three years (FT) and six years (PT) and are at an equivalent rate to fully-funded UKRI studentships.
They cover tuition fees and an annual stipend at the yearly UKRI rate (the full-time UKRI rate for 2025/26 is £22,780), together with a small annual research training and support fund.
One of the two awards for entry 2025-26 will be open to eligible home applicants who identify as migrants or refugees and from racialised ethnic minority backgrounds in any field of research and practice for which supervision is available at Goldsmiths, University of London.
To be clear, applicants considered for this award need not be working on a migration related topic, but they should be able to describe how their work will enhance their own economic, creative and intellectual lives and that of others.
The second of these two awards will be open to all eligible home or international applicants - irrespective of background and experience - whose proposed PhD is focused on a topic related to migration, broadly conceived, including in relation to processes of race and racialisation.
Proposals must be informed by the co-production of knowledge with people and groups from migrant and refugee backgrounds, and demonstrate potential for social and cultural impact.
Migrant Futures Doctoral Studentship holders will, upon award, be designated as Fellows of the Migrant Futures Institute and will be expected to contribute to developing and enhancing the research culture of the institute through their research, creative practice and participation in MFI activities and events.
Successful applicants from racialised backgrounds will also be invited to participate in the activities of Generation Delta Goldsmiths .
Applicants must be new or continuing doctoral students who will not have completed more than 1 year of full-time or 2 years of part-time registration by the start of the 2025-26 academic year.
Migrant Futures Doctoral Studentships are open to home and international applicants: at least one award will be made to a home applicant with migrant or refugee experiences and from a racialised ethnic minority background.
17:00 on Friday, 25 April, 2025
Applications will be made through the Goldsmiths Graduate School via Gecko form.
To access the recording of the applicant information webinar held on Monday, 3 March 2025, please follow this link .
Please also refer to: Migrant Futures Doctoral Studentships - Guidance for Applicants
If you have any queries, please contact that Graduate School ( graduateschool@gold.ac.uk ) using the subject heading ‘Migrant Futures Doctoral Studentships’ and including your surname.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/how-clearing-works:
Clearing can be a confusing and stressful time - but it doesn't need to be.
This is our guide to how Clearing works, what you need to do to make a university Clearing application, and what happens once you've applied.
Make a bold move - Watch our advice on applying through Clearing
Clearing is an alternative way of applying to university.
You may choose to go through Clearing if:
If you received better results than expected you can still apply to a different institution via Clearing.
You apply via the same process as a normal Clearing applicant.
You can see whether you’ve been offered a place at a university on your UCAS Hub .
Even if you didn’t get the results you needed, you may still have been offered a place.
Universities make offers based on a range of factors including your work experience.
Make sure you check your UCAS Hub on the morning of Results Day so you know what your situation is.
If you haven’t got a place at a university, now is the time to start contacting universities to check whether you’re eligible for a Clearing place.
Apply now through Clearing .
There’s no need to sign up for Clearing, you can simply start contacting universities.
However, some universities will offer a call-back service or the ability to register your interest for available courses.
That way institutions can start considering your application as soon as you get your exam results.
Every university will have different grade requirements for their courses in Clearing.
These are generally lower than the grades they’d ask for earlier in the year.
To check grade requirements, visit the institution’s website or give them a call.
Even if you haven’t got the grades for the course you want to study, there may be other options including integrated degrees that may be available to you.
Yes, international students are able to apply through Clearing .
However, you’ll need to make sure that you meet any English Language Requirements and that you apply in time to be able to fulfil any visa requirements that are necessary for you to study in the UK.
If you need advice then you can contact our International office or speak to our Immigration team .
To apply through Clearing, you contact universities directly.
Many universities will have a dedicated Clearing hotline you can call to speak to an advisor about your situation.
Some universities will also be able to give you advice online, for example over WhatsApp, or on social media.
If you already have your results, it may also be possible to submit an application online.
From 5 July 2025, you can apply to Goldsmiths via Clearing using our online application form .
Universities will usually publish a list of available courses on their website – take a look at this before you get in touch.
If the course you want isn’t available, or you don’t meet the entry requirements, the person you speak to may be able to suggest other courses you could apply for.
You’ll also need:
If you have decided you no longer want to take up your firm choice and would like to take up an offer from elsewhere or no longer want to study at university this year, you can ask to decline your place and be released into Clearing.
You just need to contact your firm choice institution to decline your place and enter Clearing.
If you are an unconditional firm Goldsmiths offer holder, then you will be able to decline your place via our Release into Clearing form .
Once you have declined your place and entered Clearing, you have given up your place.
If you change your mind please contact us, but we are not able to guarantee you can get your original choice back.
UCAS has introduced a service to help applicants find suitable courses through Clearing.
Clearing Plus will match you with a number of courses based on your qualifications, grades and your course choices if you have applied earlier in the cycle.
You can then tick off the ones you are interested in on the Hub and those universities can then get in touch with you and potentially offer you a place on a course.
Please take a look at the UCAS web pages for more information.
For most Clearing courses, you’ll be assessed purely on your exam results.
However, some courses may require that you submit a portfolio , have a phone interview with an academic, or write a short statement about why you’re interested in studying the course.
When you contact a university, they’ll tell you exactly what you need to do to make an application.
When your application enters Clearing you’ll be given a Clearing reference number.
This is different to your UCAS ID.
Most universities will only ask you for your UCAS ID, which they use to verify your results and track your application.
You can apply through Clearing without a UCAS account.
However, if you are made an offer you’ll need to accept it via UCAS .
The best thing to do is to set up a UCAS account before you start contacting universities, so you’re ready to accept any offers that come your way.
The initial phone call should only take around 10 minutes, and you’ll usually get a decision straight away.
Sometimes the university may require some additional information, or have to complete some additional checks before they can offer you a place.
In this case, you can usually expect to hear back about your Clearing application within three to four hours.
Universities will need to know your results before they can make you an offer through Clearing.
However, you can call a university the moment you have your results if you want to discuss your Clearing options.
You are also welcome to get in touch before this to discuss your options based on your predicted results.
At Goldsmiths you can get in touch with our Admissions Team:
Email: admissions (@gold.ac.uk)
You will be able to make an application through Clearing even if you already have an offer to study at a university.
However, Goldsmiths will not be able to make you an offer unless you are released from your initial offer, which you do by contacting the institution where you have a place and asking them to release you into Clearing.
If you are already holding an offer from Goldsmiths and want to change to a different programme, you don't need to reapply via Clearing.
Just contact admissions (@gold.ac.uk) to ask us to transfer your offer.
This is normally straightforward, except where the new programme you want to apply for has additional entry criteria, where we would take you through what you need to do to change.
If there are places available, and you meet the new application criteria, then you are able to reapply for the course when it enters Clearing.
If you’ve been offered a place through Clearing you’ll need to log on to your UCAS Hub and accept it.
If you've been offered a place on A-level Results Day, you'll be able to do this from the 3pm.
This confirms that you’ll definitely be attending that institution in September.
You’ll usually be sent an email outlining this after you’ve made your application.
This depends on the university you're interested in.
Some institutions will have accommodation places available for Clearing students.
At Goldsmiths, our accommodation team will be happy to discuss your options with you, including advice on finding private housing if you don't want to live in halls.
Students at Goldsmiths also have access to the experts at University of London Housing Services (ULHS) who can assist and support you in looking for private accommodation.
The ULHS has a dedicated Housing Advice Team who can also help provide legal advice and check private contracts.
Most importantly they have an online housing database of private landlords, letting agents, private halls and other providers of private accommodation who have signed up to their Code of Practice .
Please be aware that we often receive a higher number of applications for accommodation than we have places available.
This means that it might not always be possible to offer everyone a place in halls of residence for the start of term, in which case some applicants may be placed on our waiting list.
Alternatively, there are a range of ways that we can support you in finding a place to live by renting privately, as detailed above.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/why-goldsmiths:
Endless innovation, one inspiring legacy
Our academic legacy stretches back to 1891, but we are always looking forward.
Full of students and staff who are inventive, imaginative and original, Goldsmiths provides an environment where new ideas flourish.
At Goldsmiths all your teaching, learning and support facilities are in one place.
It creates a close-knit community feel, where you'll soon be bumping into friends in corridors, and lecturers in coffee shops.
Goldsmiths academics are not interested in simply spoon-feeding you knowledge to regurgitate in exams.
They want you to come with your own ideas and experiences that will challenge them and contribute to better learning for everyone.
You'll be taught how to think, not what to think.
Applying through Clearing could lead to many new adventures, find out from our students what studying at Goldsmiths is like.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-accommodation-bursaries:
If you have applied through Clearing and are yet to firmly accept your place, you may be eligible for an accommodation bursary.
This bursary will guarantee you an offer of a place in our accommodation and contribute towards your accommodation fees.
To be considered, students must meet the following criteria:
Additionally, eligible students will also be able to apply for our Hall Fee Fund .
29 August 2025
To apply for this bursary, you must apply through Clearing and complete the steps below:
Once you have completed your Clearing application and received your offer from Goldsmiths, you must firmly accept your place before applying for accommodation.
When making your application:
Offers are made in line with Goldsmiths’ accommodation terms (PDF) and subject to availability at the time.
If you're successful, we’ll offer you a place in accommodation.
You’ll receive an email with a deadline to pay your £150 pre-payment or £200 deposit to secure your place in accommodation.
You must accept your room offer by the deadline in this email.
If you miss the deadline, your offer will be automatically withdrawn.
You will be able to reapply for accommodation but you won’t be considered the bursary.
If you’ve met all the steps and are eligible, you’ll receive a separate email confirming your bursary.
Applications for the accommodation bursary will be considered on a first-come, first-served basis.
There are a limited number of places available, and the application process may close early if we receive a high number of applications.
Students are strongly encouraged to apply as soon as possible.
Once all the funding has been allocated, no further bursaries will be available, even if students meet the eligibility criteria.
If successful, the bursary will be applied as a termly credit of £600 to the student’s accommodation account, reducing the cost of rent for each instalment.
The bursary will be applied on a termly basis for their first year of study, on the condition that the student will remain in the accommodation for the duration of the contract.
The bursary will not be paid as a cash sum.
The offer cannot be applied retrospectively to students who have already been given a place at Goldsmiths.
If you have any questions, please contact the Accommodation Team accommodation(@gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/2025:
If you're joining us through Clearing, or you're a postgraduate applicant who accepted their academic offer after 6 August 2025, you'll be guaranteed an offer of accommodation, provided you apply by our accommodation deadline.
The deadline to apply is Monday 8 September at 10am, but we may close applications early, if all places have been taken.
This guarantee applies to full-time, unaccompanied students only (unaccompanied means you’ll be living without a partner or dependents).
Find out more about our application T&Cs .
A limited range of room types are available.
When you apply you may be asked to select a number of options, and we’ll offer you the most suitable option subject to availability at the time, so we recommend you apply early.
Once we make you an offer of a place, our guarantee will be fulfilled - even if you decide not to accept it or fail to complete the acceptance process before the deadline.
Our Loring Hall en-suite rooms are currently available for undergraduate students looking to apply for accommodation for 2025 entry.
Find out more about Loring Hall.
Our Ewen Henderson en-suite rooms are currently available for postgraduate students looking to apply for accommodation for 2025 entry.
Find out more about Ewen Henderson Court.
We offer funding opportunities for all students to support them in their studies.
See what support you may be eligible for.
Clearing applicants could receive a guaranteed place in our halls and £1,800 towards accommodation costs.
When you accept your academic offer, you can receive a guaranteed place in our halls and up to £2,400 towards accommodation costs.
Further scholarship and bursary opportunities to support your studies.
Guaranteed accommodation and £1,800 towards accommodation costs for Clearing applicants.
Guaranteed accommodation and up to £2,400 towards accommodation costs for postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/results:
As part of a close-knit community you'll develop your talents as a performer and in…
This degree combines training in economics with in-depth knowledge of the legal framework of the economy giving you a unique vantage point from which to launch your professional…

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-hub/clearing-parents-supporters-guide:
Use this guide to help you to support someone through the Clearing process when applying to university.
Is your child or someone you care for planning to go through Clearing?
The majority of universities offer places through Clearing to fill the degree programmes that have not reached full capacity.
Going to university through Clearing is a much more common way to apply than in the past.
Any application to university made from Clearing opening (usually in July) until September is considered to be done through Clearing.
So that includes anyone who already has qualifications and decides they want to start university (i.e.
someone who took a year out or is returning to study).
Someone can apply through Clearing if:
Making decisions that will affect the next few years (and beyond) may make a person anxious but you can do a lot to help your child or dependant think through their choices.
If your child is worried they will not get the grades they need for their Firm or Insurance choice or they have changed their minds about where or what they want to study, encourage them to research alternatives.
Clearing opens in July each year.
If your child or dependant is upset by their grades, try to calm them by explaining that going through Clearing is nothing to be scared or embarrassed by.
It is a very common way to enter university, with some of the most prestigious institutions taking students through Clearing.
Although it may be tempting to ease your child / dependant's anxiety by speaking to universities on their behalf, they must be the one to call.
At Goldsmiths we have a very friendly and patient team of people answering calls, and we will do our best to help find a degree course that is suitable for your child or dependant, if that is possible.
Although they must make the call, your child or dependant may want you to sit beside them while they speak to universities.
Before they ring, suggest they write down any questions they have.
And make sure they have their UCAS ID number with them, as universities will ask for this.
Have paper and pen to hand to make notes on what is said.
It’s easy, in the panicky atmosphere of Results Day, to forget what has been discussed, especially if your child is calling more than one university.
If your child or dependant would rather not speak on the phone, we will have lots of other ways you can contact us.
These will be displayed on our website around Results Day.
It is wise to speak to a few institutions to compare what’s available, and also to research the university if your child or dependant has not considered it before.
Stress that they should be sure they are really interested in the degree they have chosen – three years is a long time to study a subject if you have only accepted it in order to get into a particular institution.
Your child or dependant should consider things beyond what the course is like.
What sort of university experience do they want?
Small town or city?
Single campus or spread out?
Do they want to be able to move into halls?
Many universities, including Goldsmiths, usually offer your child or dependant the opportunity to come to the campus for a visit when they can take a look around and meet some of the current students before accepting a place.
Find out more about visiting us and other ways you can look around the campus, including our Virtual Tour .
It can feel like a clock is ticking to make a decision, but they actually have time to consider their options.
On Results Day, they have time to add their choice of university to their UCAS Hub (24 hours from 2pm).
This is the online system that shows how applications are progressing.
Then, under the Consumer Rights Act (2015), they have the right to cancel their offer within 14 days.
Make a bold move – Watch our advice on applying through Clearing

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/campus-tours:
Current students will take you on a tour of our campus and point out noteworthy places in the local area.
Although you won’t be able to meet academic staff on the day, our friendly students will be there to answer your questions.
If you wish to speak to academic staff, we recommend you book onto one of our virtual Open Days .
If you're an international student visiting campus outside of our Campus Tour dates, please get in touch with our International Team who will be happy to help.
Our guided Campus Tours begin at the Foyer in the Richard Hoggart Building .
If you can't attend a scheduled tour, then please see our advice on visiting us virtually .
If you have already booked a tour and need to cancel, please email events@gold.ac.uk to free your space.
The tour will last approximately one hour.
If you’re unable to visit, we have created ways you can explore Goldsmiths online:
Visit our Virtual Tour to explore our facilities and get to know our campus.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-hub/worried-about-grades:
Take a look at your options if you are concerned you will not have the right grades to join the degree programme you planned.
The lead-up to the announcement of A-levels, or other exam results, is often an anxious time.
If you're worried about your grades, Clearing can give you opportunities you may not have considered before.
To anybody worried about exam results, I'd say try your best but also give yourself a break.
You still have plenty of opportunities and possibilities available to you.
Shar, BA Journalism
Explore the courses we have on offer .
Please get in touch with us if you know you want to change your plans and come to Goldsmiths.
We would also advise you to look at the Life on Campus section of our website and watch some of our videos about what makes Goldsmiths special on YouTube to see if it is the right choice of university for you.
Goldsmiths offers degrees with an additional foundational year.
These four-year degrees can be an ideal choice for students who don’t feel quite ready to begin an undergraduate programme yet and want to consolidate their knowledge for an academic year.
They are also suited to mature students looking to return to education.
Explore our degrees with a foundation year in these subjects:
If you're worried about applying through Clearing, we have some handy advice on the process.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-hub/changing-subject:
Have you changed your mind about the subject you want to study?
Use Clearing to explore your options.
Coming to a decision about what to study at university is a difficult and important choice.
You are not alone if you have doubts about the subject you have applied for, and Clearing gives you the chance to look at alternatives.
Remember that you are not obliged to accept an offer when you speak to universities during Clearing.
You can find out what other options are available to you before make your choice – even if ultimately you stick with your original route.
Considering your options now is the most sensible approach as you are much better off making the right decision for you before your course begins.
We want you to enjoy your studies, so get in touch and find out if we can offer you a subject that is a better fit for you.
Do you have a have an offer to study at Goldsmiths but you are not certain you have chosen the right subject?
If you think you may be better suited to another subject, you can email us earlier than Clearing to see what your options are.
However, if it comes around to Clearing and your ambitions have changed then definitely give us a call and we can explore what options are available to you.
Jennifer, Head of Admissions
At Goldsmiths we have an interdisciplinary ethos, which means many of our students and academics work across disciplines to create new approaches to research and subject areas.
Psychology student, Mary, came to Goldsmiths through Clearing after changing her mind about where she wanted to study:
I applied through Clearing a month before Results Day.
And I did this because I decided to pursue my dream and actually go into university in London… as a student, when you first come to university – whether it be a city you're not familiar with, or one you're completely familiar with – the experience of Goldsmiths makes it new, and makes it exciting, and makes it welcoming.
Mary, BSc Psychology

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-hub/btec-qualifications:
How Clearing works if you have taken BTECs either on their own or combined with A-levels.
We welcome a range of UK Level 3 qualifications for our degrees.
We consider the BTEC Extended Diploma (taken from 2010) or National Extended Diploma (from 2016) for entry to our undergraduate programmes.
We also consider a combination of BTEC diplomas with other Level 3 qualifications, for example:
You can find our entry requirements for the BTEC Diploma on each of our programme pages .
If you have taken the BTEC Diploma prior to 2010, please contact our Admissions team .
We warmly welcome our BTEC applicants at Goldsmiths.
And we find many people take a mix of BTECs and A-levels.
We’re a very friendly bunch, so if you’re not sure about whether your qualification will be accepted, please ask us.
Bold ideas, bright futures - Find out how Goldsmiths can help you prepare for the future.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-hub/international-student-clearing:
Apply to study in the Best Student City in the World (QS Best Student Cities 2025)
International students, including those from the EU, apply for undergraduate degrees through UCAS, the same as students from the UK.
Some courses may ask for specific requirements for international students, which you can find on individual programme pages .
Please check the page for the degree you are interested in.
My friends are from other countries and they're so open-minded, so there were definitely no worries and concerns about making friends.
Yoongi, BSc Marketing
We’ve recently reviewed our English language qualifications and are now accepting many alternative qualifications.
We’re trying to grow the list to give our students as much flexibility as we can when it comes to applying to Goldsmiths.
Please check our alternative English language qualification page .
We offer a range of one-year programmes called International Foundation Certificates , which can be taken before starting an undergraduate degree.
These are designed specifically to help international students who need to develop their English language, become familiar with British academic culture and explore some of our academic departments.
If English is your first language, you may be interested in one of our integrated degrees .
These are four-year degrees with a foundation year, which are available in a range of subjects.
We have experts in place to help you if you need a visa.
Our Immigration Advisory Service (IAS) can offer advice before, during and after you are a student.
Email the team at immigration@gold.ac.uk .
On the 23 June 2020, the UK government announced that EU/EEA/Swiss nationals will no longer be eligible for ‘Home’ fee status from August 2021.
Access to financial support from Student Finance England will no longer be available, and EU/EEA/Swiss nationals will be classified as International for fee purposes.
We have halls of residence on campus and a short commute away, which you can look at on our accommodation pages .
We guarantee an offer of accommodation to all International applicants who apply by the deadline.
However, the accommodation application portal remains open throughout the summer, and any applications received after the June deadline will be considered.
For 2025, we are offering a Clearing Accommodation Bursary to contribute towards accommodation costs.
If you apply through Clearing, you could be eligible for a guaranteed offer of a place in accommodation and £1,800 towards your accommodation costs in your first year.
Our accommodation team can offer you advice about private accommodation if you decide you would not like to live in college housing.
Unique courses, unforgettable experiences - Find out from our students what studying at Goldsmiths is like.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-hub/mature-students-clearing:
Allow your interests to develop or improve your skills at Goldsmiths – we welcome applications from people of any age through Clearing.
Are you considering returning to education?
This could be the right time to develop your skills in order to improve your career prospects, or follow your passions and pursue an entirely new direction.
Our courses offer you the opportunity to take a fresh look at a subject, and spend time with people who are just as fascinated by it as you.
All of our courses are open to mature students.
At Goldsmiths we welcome students of all ages because we understand the importance of real-life experience and the insights that older people bring with them.
Almost half of our community of students is over 21, which breaks down as:
* Figures for 2020-2021 intake
The tutors here are extremely helpful, extremely knowledgeable and they're really friendly.
I quickly realised once I'd got onto campus that it was the perfect environment for me.
Timothy, BMus/BSc Electronic Music Computing and Technology
If you haven’t been studying for a while, using academic study skills - or even remembering how to write an essay - can seem daunting.
Goldsmiths’ Student Support team is dedicated to supporting you through your studies, and we have an Academic Skills Centre that runs a comprehensive range of study skills workshops and sessions.
Goldsmiths offers degrees with a foundation year in these subjects:
There are no formal entry requirements for these courses, but you must have a lively interest in the subject.
Please check the entry requirement section of the course description for more information about what we look for in an application.
These four-year degrees can be an ideal choice for those who have been out of the education system for some years.
Find out more about returning to education, and life as a mature student in our Mature Student Guide .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-hub/staying-in-london:
Are you a Londoner who has changed their mind about studying away from home?
You could apply to a local university through Clearing.
Deciding to move away from home to study is a big decision, and many students change their mind about where they want to study.
If you already live in London, you know about the many benefits of the city and you may have decided you want to stay.
In fact, staying local is becoming an increasingly popular option for students applying to university.
If you want to change your mind about staying local for any reason then applying to London universities through Clearing gives you the chance to explore this option.
Considering whether staying in London is the right decision for you by doing your research is a good approach so you can see whether studying close to home might be a better fit.
Remember, you aren't obliged to accept an offer if you speak to local universities during Clearing, you may decide to stick with your original plan to move away, the choice is yours.
Deborah decided to stay in London to study, and was surprised to find it gave her a different perspective of the city:
Having friends from out of the country and from different cities coming to Goldsmiths, they show you the city through their lens and it's a very different perspective.
I feel like you enjoy London more!
Sometimes you're shown things by someone who is not from the area – because they are more open-minded and more willing to have experiences.
Deborah
Read our guide to studying locally .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-hub/funding:
Explore the scholarships and bursaries open to students applying through Clearing, and existing offer holders.
We offer a range of scholarships, bursaries and fee waivers to Clearing applicants and offer holders, with applications opening in August each year.
Explore our funding options to find out more about eligibility criteria and how to apply.
The first 100 Clearing applicants to accept their offer from Goldsmiths after 1pm on 14 August 2025 (A-Level Results Day) will receive £1,800 to support their studies.
Find out more about the Clearing Scholarship .
If you apply through Clearing and wish to stay in our accommodation, you can apply for our Clearing Accommodation Bursary.
Successful applicants will receive a guaranteed place in our accommodation and a £1,800 accommodation bursary for their first year of study.
Find out more about the Clearing Accommodation Bursary .
If you are a home student who is currently enrolled on an Access to Higher Education course or has successfully completed an Access programme in the last academic year, you can apply for our Access Programme Scholarship.
Successful applicants will receive £1,000 for each year of study on your undergraduate programme at Goldsmiths.
Find out more about the Access Programme Scholarship .
If you meet the relevant eligibility criteria, you could receive £3,000 for each year of study on your undergraduate programme at Goldsmiths.
Find out more about the Goldsmiths Equity Award .
The Lewisham Fee Waiver is a full tuition fee waiver covering three years of an undergraduate degree.
You must be a home student, with a household income of under £35,000 per year, and who has been a resident in the London Borough of Lewisham for three years prior to application.
Find out more about the Lewisham Borough Fee Waiver .
If you are over the age of 25 on the first day of your degree (taken as the first day of enrolment week) and are eligible for home fees, you can apply for our Mature Student Scholarship.
Successful applicants will receive £3,000 for each year of study on your undergraduate programme.
Find out more about the Mature Student Scholarship .
Home students with a household income of under £35,000 per year, who live in select London Boroughs, may be eligible for a travel bursary.
This bursary covers the cost of an annual travelcard for travel from your home to Goldsmiths.
Find out more about Travel Bursaries .
If you are a care-experienced or estranged student who meets select eligibility criteria, you could be eligible for our Care Experienced and Estranged Students Bursary.
This provides £1,000 for each year of study.
Find out more about the Care Experienced and Estranged Students Bursary .
If you live in a postcode area with low participation in higher education according to POLAR4 (Quintile 1) criteria and have a household income of under £35,00 per year, you could be eligible for this bursary worth £500.
Find out more about the Low Participation Neighbourhood Bursary .
If you are a home student with recognised disability that has been disclosed on your UCAS application, you could be eligible for our Disabled Student Bursary.
Successful applicants will receive £3000 for each year of study on your undergraduate programme at Goldsmiths.
Find out more about the Disabled Students Bursaries .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/facilities:
Based in London’s vibrant New Cross, our campus has everything you need to make the most of your time as a student.
The Library is open 24/7 throughout most of the year .
In addition to some 300,000 books and 7,000 print and electronic journals, it contains a range of study spaces for individual and group study, laptop borrowing and IT facilities.
For more information, please visit the Library page .
There are a variety of eating options on campus including Thirty Five cafe, Benugo in the Library and Professor Stuart Hall Building and the refectory with a mixture of hot and cold food.
Find out more about eating and drinking options on campus .
All halls of residence have internet access, and we have Wifi across campus.
The library has both PCs and Apple Macs, scanners and video editing equipment.
If you're having a problem with IT access then staff are available to answer your queries in the library.
See IT Services for the full range of facilities offered.
Throughout your studies and even after your graduation we can offer help with a whole range of issues from bursaries and scholarships to counselling , careers , nursery services and peer mentoring .
We also have a multifaith Chaplaincy and prayer room.
Read more about the support on offer .
Our campus has tennis and netball courts and a large backfield, perfect for football.
Our Students' Union offers a huge variety of sports societies, both recreational and competitive.
Joy, a third year BMus Music student takes us on a tour of the Goldsmiths Music Studio.
The Art Practice Areas (APAs) consist of eleven teaching workshops and facilities available for art students to support and expand their practice over a variety of disciplines.
The APA’s aim to build their teaching around students' project ideas, helping them realise concepts discussed with their academic tutors and introduce them to new practices and techniques where necessary.
All APA staff are specialists in their fields, many being practising artists having years of teaching and commercial/industrial experience.
Our Media and Communications students enjoy the use of radio and TV studios, photography studios, ENPS facilities, darkrooms and production rooms.
They also have access to a range of digital video and audio editing equipment including animation and image manipulation software and hardware.
Theatre students benefit from a wide range of facilities including a theatre, performance studios, scenography workshop, and wardrobe and props stores.
There is also a media studio for video and sound editing, and specialist technicians on-site for support.
Visit our virtual tour of campus to take a better look at facilities across our campus via 360-images, videos and 'Day in the Life' tours.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/open-days/benefits:
Choosing which university to attend is an important decision, and there are many reasons why attending an Open Day can be a really beneficial part of the process.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/open-days/virtual-open-days:
Virtual Open Days give you the opportunity to speak to academics and have all your questions answered online.
You’ll have the chance to virtually meet the people who will be teaching you throughout the event via talks from different departments.
The talks will tell you more about what it’s like to study within a department, provide more information on individual degree programmes, and outline what makes Goldsmiths unique.
You’ll also get the opportunity to hear from our student ambassadors to find out about their experiences as a student.
Many of our support teams will be available for you to speak to, from talks from our recruitment team on how to apply, to live sessions with Admissions, Accommodation, Student Support, and Library, helping to cover all your questions.
Once you’ve registered your interest in one of our events, Goldsmiths will send you a link and all of the details to access the virtual Open Day via email.
Please keep an eye on the Open Days page for upcoming events.
If you cannot attend a virtual event make sure to contact us to find out how we can help you access the information you need.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/open-days/register-your-interest:
Alternatively, email events@gold.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/open-days/booking-form/ug:
Book your place on our upcoming Open Days.
If you are unable to attend one of our Open Days, we also run regular campus tours that are guided by current students and help give you an insight into studying at Goldsmiths.
Find out more and book a campus tour .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/open-days/booking-form/pg:
Book your place on an upcoming Open Day.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/campus-tours/booking-form:
Alternatively, email events (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/art/opendays:
You can also visit us at our College-wide open days and campus tours.
For directions and campus maps, see how to get to Goldsmiths .
Please direct any enquiries to the relevant departmental contact.
If your question is regarding the MFA Curating admissions or application procedures please direct your enquiry to Paul Clinton p.clinton (@gold.ac.uk).

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/fees:
We offer competitively priced accommodation options, with a range of rents across our halls.
You can find the cost of our halls on the relevant halls page .
If you’ve been allocated a place, you’ll receive an email with information about how to accept your place, read and agree to the terms of the contract, and how to pay your pre-payment or deposit.
It applies to all halls except those in the Goldsmiths Student Village , where a security deposit of £200 is due.
These deposits/pre-payments do not apply to students whose stay is sponsored by their home institution (those on the Study Abroad programme whose fees are paid by their home university).
Rent includes:
You can pay by bank transfer, credit/debit card, direct debit or through our online payments system.
For any questions with regards to your fees or pre-payment, please contact us .
Current student looking to pay your rent?
See our information for current residents .
If you are yet to accept your offer from Goldsmiths, you may be eligible for an accommodation bursary.
If you apply through Clearing, you you may be eligible for an accommodation bursary.
Find out more about the Clearing Accommodation Bursary.
If you are yet to firmly accept your offer from Goldsmiths, you may be eligible for our Postgraduate Accommodation Bursary.
This will guarantee your offer of a place in our accommodation and contribute towards accommodation fees.
You must be intending to sudy a PGCE or Taught Masters programme and have accepted your offer from Goldsmiths after 6 August 2025.
Find out more about the Postgraduate Accommodation Bursary.
Louis and Beth share their tips on how to budget at university.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/how-we-allocate-places:
Our allocation policy for accommodation
We receive a higher number of applications than we have places available, and some of our rooms are in high demand, so applying for accommodation as early as possible will give you the best chance of being offered one of your preferred options.
Read our Accommodation Agreement Terms and Conditions 2024-25 (PDF) to find out more about our allocation policy.
Our terms for 2025-26 will be published ahead of applications opening.
If you apply for accommodation before the deadline, we will intend to offer you a place in student accommodation, but we aren’t always able to send these offers right away as the availability of rooms can vary throughout the summer.
We will continually send out offers until everyone who applied before the deadline has been made an offer, at which point we will start making offers to those who have missed the deadline.
We give priority to undergraduate and postgraduate students attending Goldsmiths for the first time and living outside the London Travelcard zones.
Where possible, we will consider any personal reasons or circumstances you may have for wanting to live in student accommodation, as long as you've stated these in your application.
On your accommodation application, you will also have a box to tell us any additional information you want to share with us about your medical requirements.
If you disclose medical requirements you will be asked to liaise with the Goldsmiths Disability Service as necessary.
Special consideration will also be given to students who have experienced kinship care, are estranged or are care leavers.
If you apply after the deadline, you will be initially added to our waiting list.
We are usually able to start housing people on the waiting list after we have processed all applications received before the deadline.
Where possible, we will aim to make an offer of accommodation to all students on the waiting list by the start of term, however, this process may be delayed during periods of high demand.
If you’re not allocated a suitable place in student accommodation, there are a range of alternative accommodation options and we have support available to help students in their search for private accommodation.
For those applying after the start of term, further information will be available on our website.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/contact:
Accommodation Services is located at Loring Management Centre .
You can email us on accommodation (@gold.ac.uk) .
Our team are available Monday-Friday between 9am to 5pm, excluding bank holidays and closure.
If you are already living in one of our halls and have questions or issues, please visit the Accommodation for Residents section of our website for more information and details of who to contact for assistance.
Find out about our complaints procedure .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/offer:
You will find further information as referenced in your accommodation offer here
*Please get in touch if you need an accessible version of this grid

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/erasmus-and-study-abroad:
Information for students who need accommodation for Study Abroad and Erasmus+.
Accommodation applications for students joining Goldsmiths in September 2025 will open on Tuesday 10 June at 12pm GMT and close at 11:59pm GMT on Friday 27 June 2025.
All Study Abroad and Erasmus+ students can apply to live in Goldsmiths accommodation.
If you are studying for the whole academic year, you will be able to apply to live in any of our undergraduate accommodation.
If you require accessible information, please view our online guide.
Find out how to make an application for accommodation .
The following colleges fund their students to attend Study Abroad programmes at Goldsmiths:
Students from these colleges do not need to make a pre-payment or pay a deposit or any accommodation fees for the duration of their study.
Please note, this list may be subject to change at short notice and you should always check with your sponsor institution.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/pre-sessional-english-students-accommodation:
For more information, please visit the Pre-sessional Programme page .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/fees-funding/scholarships/postgraduate-accommodation-bursary:
£1,800 accommodation bursary for PGCE students for their first year of study (£600 per term, up to 3 terms).
£2,400 accommodation bursary for postgraduate students, who are undertaking a taught master’s programme (£600 per term, up to 4 terms) for their first year of study.
To apply for this bursary, you must firmly accept your offer from Goldsmiths after 6 August 2025 , and complete the following steps:
You must firmly accept your offer from Goldsmiths after 6 August 2025.
When applying:
You’ll receive an email with a deadline to pay your £150 pre-payment or £200 deposit to secure your place in accommodation
You will be able to reapply for accommodation but you you won’t be considered the bursary.
Applications for the accommodation bursary will be considered on a first come, first served basis.
The bursary will be applied on a termly basis for their first year of study, on the condition that the student will remain in Goldsmiths accommodation for the duration of the contract.
The bursary is linked to your accommodation account.
Please note that if you are offered accommodation on a 40-, 42- or 44-week contract, you will only be eligible for up to three £600 credits.
The offer cannot be applied retrospectively to students who have already got a place at Goldsmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/digital-accommodation-guide:
Find out more about the halls of residence options available to you for 2025 entry.
Studying in a city like London is an unbeatable experience.
It’s even better when you know you’re living somewhere convenient, safe and affordable.
Students in our halls of residence benefit from:
We have a range of options, with halls priced very competitively in comparison to other local London universities.
Of course, living in halls is only one option for accommodation.
There is a range of alternative housing available – whether you decide to make use of it straight away, or in later years.
And the good news is that the areas around Goldsmiths are on the more affordable scale of London housing, with many rental opportunities available.
As a Goldsmiths student, you’ll have access to the experts at University of London Housing Services (ULHS) , who assist and support students looking for and living in private accommodation.
Regardless of what you choose, you can benefit from our Campus Support Officers, who work hard to ensure that – whether you’re living in halls, at home or renting privately – there is someone on hand to speak to if ever you need guidance or a friendly chat.
All halls of residence include access to a garden, courtyard or roof terrace, Wifi access, bike storage and access to a launderette.
The following halls also include a social space:
St James, London SE14 6AH
(Managed by Goldsmiths)
40 Goodwood Road, London SE14 6BL
(Managed by a private provider)
Standard ***
31 Peckham Road, London SE5 8UB
80 Lewisham Way, London SE14 6PB
(Managed by Campus Living Villages)
Studio ***
334 New Cross Road, London SE14 6AG
63 Wickham Road London SE4 1LX
* Bed size: UK standard bed sizes, single may be a standard or small single.
** Room size: the size shown is an approximation and includes private bathroom and kitchenette, where these are available.
*** Some of the rooms of this type are accessible.
Accessible rates are available on application.
A student's eligibility for the accessible rate will be confirmed once an assessment under the Disability Policy has been carried out.
Please contact accommodation@gold.ac.uk for more information.
ŧ Contract length: the minimum contract length will generally be based on your course type.
PGCE accommodation, where available, will be offered on a 44-week contract.
Pre-payment/deposit: a £150 advance payment must be paid on acceptance of your accommodation offer and it will be deducted from your first rent instalment (for students allocated to the Goldsmiths Student Village a £200 deposit is due, but no pre-payment is required).
The information on this webpage has been supplied to Goldsmiths, University of London in good faith and is to be used for guidance.
Although the College has been assured the information is correct at the time of publication (April 2025), our halls provision may be subject to change.
Please refer to the details on your offer of accommodation before you commit to accepting the room.
For queries, please contact us.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/accommodation/moving-on:
As a Goldsmiths student, you have access to specialist support and advice via the University of London Housing Services (ULHS) .
Every year the ULHS publish a helpful private housing guide , which covers every step of looking for accommodation, and things to keep in mind if you are considering renting.
They organise a housing fair and useful webinars, and they also have a flatmate finder and property search platform .
Additionally, they offer a free contract checking service, legal housing advice and organise other events for students.
To register on the property search platform, please use your Goldsmiths email account, as this will ensure the ULHS can easily confirm you’re a student at Goldsmiths.
You will also need to provide proof of your enrolment which you can find on My Goldsmiths .
Find out more about their services and private housing support .
If you’re keen on living in student halls, several options are available in the local area, however we recommend you begin your search early, as places in private halls are filling up fast.
The ULHS have a list of registered private halls to help you in your search.
Finally, if you need a place in between different contracts or accommodation for a short period, information on short-term options is available via the ULHS.
You may also want to look at the Goldsmiths Students’ Union Housing Facebook Group , where students post information about spare rooms.
Although some of our student accommodation will be closed over the summer, we expect to have a very limited number of places available in Quantum Court and Town Hall Camberwell.
To be considered, you should be planning to study full-time at Goldsmiths for 2024-25, have no outstanding debt and no final written warnings.
To apply for a room over the summer months, please visit our accommodation portal from 12pm GMT on 17 March 2025.
Our team aim to process applications over the course of the next term, subject to availability at the time.
Please bear in mind that availability over summer is strictly limited and meeting our eligibility criteria does not guarantee you will receive an offer of accommodation.
Applications for accommodation for continuing students will open at 12pm GMT on 27 May and close on 30 May 2025 at 11.59pm.
To be eligible for an offer of a place, you will need to apply before the deadline and be a full-time student at Goldsmiths for the duration of the next academic year.
You should also have no outstanding debt and no final written warnings.
We do prioritise new students as spaces in halls are limited, so it is important you also take time to explore alternative accommodation options and make use of the support and resources available, as meeting our eligibility criteria and applying before the deadline does not guarantee you will receive an offer of accommodation.
Find out how to apply and how we allocate places .
More information on our rates and accommodation options will be available in late spring, ahead of applications opening.
Once you have applied, if you are successful, we will be in touch with an update from the second half of June onwards.
We also offer help and support through Accommodation Services based at Loring Management Centre.
You can make an appointment to speak with our Operations and Housing Officer to get general guidance and support when it comes to your housing options.
Contact accommodation (@gold.ac.uk) to find out more.
Talk to us in Accommodation Services
Loring Management Centre / 020 7919 7192 / accommodation (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/local:
New Cross - our South East London home - has a thriving music and arts scene, fantastic restaurants, buzzing cafes, and a genuinely diverse and eclectic population.
Photos by: Annie Kruntcheva
It's also been voted as the best place in South East London for renting, and because we're on a single-site campus you'll have plenty of opportunities to explore the local area.
Want to find out more?
Take a look at our recommendations of where to eat and drink or read Time Out's guide to New Cross .
Heathrow Airport: 55 minutes away Gatwick Airport: 45 minutes away London Bridge: 10 minutes away

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/halls/raymont-hall:
Raymont Hall is located in Brockley, a 20-minute walk from Goldsmiths.
The nearest station is Brockley.
Undergraduate and postgraduate students.
You can expect to live with students of different nationalities and from different degrees, and we’ll try and house you with other undergraduate or postgraduate students.
Rent in this hall ranges from £227.00 - £387.00 per week, depending on the type of room you choose.
See our 2025 Accommodation Guide (PDF) for more information.
Please note, there is no car parking on site.
Take a look inside Raymont Hall to get an idea of what life is like here.
Take a look around the communal areas and visit one of our en suite bedrooms inside Raymont Hall.
Raymont Hall is home to undergraduate students and a small number of postgraduate students in a dedicated area
Your shared kitchen includes a cooker, freezer, kettle, microwave oven, iron and ironing board.
You'll have a private kitchen if you live in the studio
You can make your room feel like home whether its en suite or a studio
There is a common room and a study room available
En suite (new area) - there are different size en suite rooms and studio rooms available
Raymont Hall is in Brockley, South East London, and is managed by Campus Living Villages.
This hall is a 20-minute walk from campus and houses students from various courses and institutions.
You can also get to campus by taking a short bus ride.
This residence is split across four buildings, three of which offer self-contained flats.
Raymont Hall, 63 Wickham Road, London SE4 1LX
Please read our important information before applying for this hall of residence.
If you have any questions that aren't answered on this page, you can also take a look at the Campus Living Villages website .
This hall is managed by Campus Living Villages .
Halls managed by private accommodation providers are signed up to the National Code of Standards for Larger Developments .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/halls/town-hall-camberwell:
This hall, which was formerly the town hall of the London Borough of Southwark, is located in Camberwell.
It's a 15-minute commute from campus.
Rent in this hall ranges from £230.00 - £408.50 per week, depending on the type of room you choose.
Town Hall Camberwell also has an on-site private cafe with outdoor sitting, artist studios and a 200-seat community-run theatre.
Take a look inside Town Hall Camberwell to get an idea of what life is like here.
Undergraduate and postgraduate students live in these halls
You can enjoy the communal lounge and TV
There are lots of different room types available from standard to studios
Your shared kitchen has a cooker, freezer, kettle, microwave oven, iron and ironing board (you'll have a private kitchenette if you're in one of the studios)
Our studio rooms are self-contained flats with private kitchenettes and bathrooms
Formerly the town hall of the London Borough of Southwark, this hall is part new build, part conversion, and includes original heritage features.
Undergraduate and postgraduate students live here.
Town Hall Camberwell, 31 Peckham Rd, London SE5 8UB
During the 2024-25 academic year, essential external works are due to take place at Town Hall Camberwell.
Our priority is to minimise any disruption or inconvenience to students, however some noise and disruption are to be expected.
At this stage we have not been advised of the duration of these works, but we will ensure residents are kept regularly updated as more information becomes available.
This hall is managed by Homes for Students .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/accommodation/halls/quantum-court:
Quantum Court is located in Shadwell, a 20-minute commute from campus.
The nearest station is Shadwell.
Please note: This halls is not available for 2025-26.
You can expect to live with students of different nationalities and on different degrees, and we’ll try and house you with other undergraduate or postgraduate students.
Quantum Court mainly houses Goldsmiths students and a small number of students from other institutions.
Rent in this hall ranges from £246.00 - £293.00 per week, depending on the type of room you choose.
See our 2024 Accommodation Guide (PDF) for more information.
If you require accessible information please contact us .
Take a look inside Quantum Court to get an idea of what life is like here.
This accommodation is home to undergraduate and postgraduate students
En suite rooms have shared kitchens
An example of an en suite room
All rooms have en suite bathrooms
There are plenty of social spaces including a pool table and two roof terraces
An example of a room in this hall
There are two roof terraces to enjoy here
An example of a studio room in this hall
Studio and studio large rooms have their own kitchenette
Take a look round the communal areas in Quantum Court and take a 360 look at one of our en suite bedrooms.
Quantum Court is based in Shadwell, a 20-minute commute from our campus.
Goldsmiths undergraduate and postgraduate students live here.
This is a purpose-built residence made up of 40 flats and 18 self-contained studios.
Quantum Court, 10 King David Lane, London E1 0DY
This hall is managed by Unite Students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/icce/staff/searle-nicola:
Institute for Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship
n.searle (@gold.ac.uk)
Website nicolasearle.com
Nicola specialises in economics and management of IP, with a focus on the creative industries and trade secrets.
Dr.
Nicola Searle, Reader (Associate Professor), is an economist and management scholar specialising in innovation, intellectual property and research security.
She has two key research lines: the first examines copyright and business models in the creative digital economy.
The second investigates trade secrets, knowledge flows and research security.
Searle is a member of the UK's DCMS College of Experts, board member of the EPIP Association, member of the UK IPO Expert Advisory Group, Visiting Professor at Bologna University, Scholar at The IP Policy Institute at University of Akron, and Visiting Research Fellow at the Centre for Innovation Management Research, Birkbeck.
Searle has held three prestigious Fellowships: a Thomas Edison Innovation Policy Fellowship, a UKRI Digital Economy Early Career Fellowship and an AHRC/ESRC Placement Fellowship.
She is former Chair of the EPSRC Digital Security and Resilience Advisory Board and Digital Economy Advisory Board.
Searle teaches on the MACCE degree, where she runs the Theories of Capital and Dissertation & Project modules and supervises students and dissertations throughout the year.
She also supervises PhD research, current student projects include:
Searle’s primary area of interest is the economics and management of Intellectual Property, with focuses on the Digital Economy and the Creative Industries.
In this, she researches the economics of trade secrets and economic espionage, and business models, IP & digital media.
Searle's includes an interdisciplinary theme, reflected in collaborations with scholars in law, sociology, technology and the creative arts.
In 2023 - 2024, Nicola was a Thomas Edison Innovation Policy Fellow at the Center for Intellectual Policy and Innovation Policy, George Mason University.
Her project investigated the value of trade secrets and their context in the innovation landscape.
From 2017 - 2022, Dr.
Searle held an EPSRC Digital Economy Fellowship (grant EP/P005039/1.) Her fellowship, entitled “Economic Espionage and Cybercrime: Evidence and Strategy,” looks at the increasing importance of trade secrets in the digital world, and the emerging threats of the theft of trade secrets and economic espionage through cybercrime.
Searle's research incorporates insights developed over her career.
She served as a government economist at the IPO from 2013 to 2015.
Prior to her role at the IPO, Nicola was the lead Associate on the Moving Targets project at the School of Arts, Media & Computer Games at Abertay University from 2010-2012.
Nicola also served as Academic Supervisor for two Knowledge Transfer Projects (KTP) with the Institute for Capitalising on Creativity (ICC, St Andrews) and Creative Scotland on the film industry and use of IP by Scottish creative businesses.
Searle was a member of the prominent IP blog, the IPKat, for five years.
Her work also reflects knowledge developed from running a social photography business and four years working for Goldman Sachs.
2024: Trusted Research & Innovation: An investigation of Knowledge Leakage Research project funded by the Innovation Research Caucus (ESRC) to analyse knowledge leakage in the context of UK innovation
2023: Thomas Edison Innovation Policy and Law Fellowship Edison Fellow at the Center for Innovation Policy and Intellectual Property at George Mason University to develop a project on the value of trade secrets.
2021: European Commission Study Contract: The Legal Protection of Trade Secrets in the Context of the Data Economy Study contract, European Commission Executive Agency for Small & Medium-sized Enterprises (EASME), Member of Co-development team, with IMC University of Applied Sciences Krems.
2021: UK Intellectual Property Office research commission Principal Investigator commissioned to investigate innovation and economic impacts of trade secrets
2018: 
                                Center for the Protection of Intellectual Property, George Mason University, Grant Principal Investigator commissioned to analyse copyright narratives and digital media business models.
2017: EPSRC Digital Economy Fellowship Economic Espionage and Cyber Crime: Evidence and Strategy: Four-year fellowship to investigate cybercrime with a focus on economic espionage and the theft of trade secrets.
2017: CREATe Grant Meta-Analysis of CREATe Business Models
Policymaking - Dr.
Searle has authored several policy reports for the UK IPO and the European Commission and regularly advises policymaking bodies, including the UN's World Intellectual Property Office.
Searle has served as an Expert Witness to Parliament and consistently provides expertise to government consultations.
She is a member of the UK's Department of Culture, Media and Sport's (DCMS) College of Experts and a member of the UK Intellectual Property Office's (IPO) Research Expert Advisory Group.
She is a Board Member for the European Policy in Intellectual Property Association.
Advising UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Funding and Policies - Dr.
Searle is very involved in supporting UK government research funding, including in the following roles:
2025: Interview with Research Professional Interview on my research about the challenges of supporting innovation in the context of research security
2025: Mapping trade secrets litigation to national security concerns and patenting behaviours suggests striking relationship Article discussing research on patents and trade marks in the context of national security
2024: UK universities accused of ‘naive’ approach to economic espionage Interview with Research Professional
2024: Trade secret managers should take note: a UK law criminalising theft is now in play Quoted as expert on the use of criminal law as a helpful corporate diplomacy tool and the risk that over-stringent trade secret protections result in a chilling effect on innovation.
2023: Shielding trade secrets during a ‘cybersecurity pandemic’ Quoted as expert in IAM publication investigating the management of trade secrets facing cybersecurity threat
2022: Article for The Times Higher Education Following her presentation of oral evidence to House of Lords’ Communications & Digital Select Committee, authored this reflection on the process and how academics can maximise their impact.
2022: Speaker at the Microsoft Intelligence Summit Broadcast to thousands of people worldwide, served as an expert speaker at the Intelligence Summit on cybersecurity and trade secrets.
2025: Expert Speaker as guest of UK Foreign Office's Science & Technology Network "Research Security,"  Spinoff Europa Conference 2025, Sofia, Bulgaria
2024: Speaker Inaugural Conference, The Centre for Interdisciplinary Legal Studies at the University of Hong Kong
2023: 
                                Chatham House Roundtable Participant
2023: Panel Member: WIPO Conversation on Intellectual Property and Frontier Technologies UN event; Speaker on the Playing games and knowing the IP score:  content and more in the Metaverse panel
2023: 
                                Seminar Speaker,  Manipal University Jaipur, India presented "Trade Secrets in Collaborative Environments"
2023: 
                                Panellist - 30th anniversary FIDE Global Digital Encounters Panellist, IP Implications of the Data Economy
2022: Expert Witness, House of Lords’ Communications and Digital Select Committee Served as expert witness to inform the Inquiry into the Creative Industries
2021: 
                                Keynote Speaker "Trade Secrets and Patents at the Innovation Level", Society of Legal Scholars
2019: 
                                Panel Member "Innovation and Trade Secrets", WIPO Trade Secrets Symposium, Geneva, Switzerland.
Searle's work has featured in two Research Excellence Framework (REF) government evaluations of research:
UK REF Impact Case Study,  2022 Imbedding Economics into Intellectual Property Practice and Policy, Business and Management Studies, Goldsmiths, University of London, based solely on Dr.
Searle's research; evaluated as internationally excellent in terms of originality, significance and rigour.
UK REF Impact Case Study,  2014 Capitalising on creativity in the film and screen industry, Business and Management Studies, University of St Andrews, as part of a team with Professor Barbara Townley; evaluated as world-leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/pg/ma-art-ecology:
If you have specific questions about the degree, contact Ros Gray .
15 months full-time
Home - full-time: £15350 International - full-time: £28150
Art
Through the development of a 15-month artistic project, students learn skills and build networks essential to pushing the boundaries of art’s engagement with ecology, for sustaining their artistic practice after graduation, for developing as educators, producers and leaders in a wide range of fields, or for pursuing doctoral research.
While on the programme, students:
Sound Recording for Fieldwork workshop, 2024.
Photo: Tom Fisher.
MA Art & Ecology Experimental Laboratory on 'Fieldwork' with Matterlurgy at Deptford Creek, 2022
Students have access to world-class art production facilities in the Art Practice Areas , including:
There is also:
The Goldsmiths Allotment
You will also have workshops on how to develop your artistic practice after graduation and expand and refine your artistic skills.
Professional practice workshops may focus on:
Students on the MA Art & Ecology also benefit from the rich interdisciplinary research culture at Goldsmiths, which includes the Centre for Art and Ecology and the Goldsmiths Centre for Contemporary Art .
Over the 15 months, you will work on developing the project idea you have applied with.
You will be supported in developing it, possibly in collaboration with external partners or particular ecological sites.
You will learn key skills that will allow you to realise an ambitious body of work, and teach you how to work with different kinds of sites and more-than-human communities.
The course will be taught through student-centred learning, where your practice is at the heart of the learning experience.
Teaching modes include:
The visiting tutor system we have on this programme will allow you to have contact with leading practitioners and theorists, including artists, curators, scientists and activists.
This will enable you to develop self-reflection and criticality about your practice and introduce you to an expanded professional network and a wide range of approaches to addressing ecology.
The programme is made up of the following elements.
A year-long individual project in which you conduct artistic research within a defined field of inquiry that may involve sustained engagement with a particular site, institution, or community.
The artistic project is assessed and made public through:
A 6,000-word dissertation with staff supervision that is intended to support the development of your artistic project.
This 4-week artist-led laboratory will involve practice-based research into a particular theme drawing on the artist’s field of research.
Students are invited to respond through a group presentation and individual report.
Goldsmiths has a strong understanding of specific issues such as environmental racism, climate justice and indigenous sovereignty, and approaches such as ecofeminism, black studies, queer ecologies, anti- and postcolonial theory, crip and disability studies, and science and technology studies.
These are topics that can be really important for any artist engaging with ecological and climate activism and academia.
You will be surrounded by and have access to a great body of theoretical knowledge and criticality, allowing you to better situate your work in a self-reflective and expanded way.
The MA Art & Ecology is designed to offer you an understanding and experience of contemporary art practice engaged with ecology that has a breadth of outcomes and a variety of transferable skills.
Upon completion of the programme students will be equipped to work professionally in a range of circumstances including:
Upon completion, MA Art & Ecology graduates should be able to continue with the critically informed practice they will have fostered at Goldsmiths and go on to contribute effectively to the development of art practice engaged with ecology in whichever cultural location they are situated.
Throughout the programme you will be introduced to and work alongside leading professionals from within the field of art and ecology, through workshops, seminars and one-to-one meetings.
These will include:
This will provide you with the opportunity to develop your own professional network.
You will also develop your understanding of the processes of project commissioning, production, display and distribution in the field of art and ecology.
You should normally have (or expect to be awarded) the following qualifications:
Applicants will also be asked to propose a project as part of their application.
Admission is by interview only.
We accept a wide range of international qualifications.
Find out more about the qualifications we accept from around the world .
If English isn’t your first language, you will need an IELTS score (or equivalent English language qualification ) of 7.0 with a 7.0 in writing and no element lower than 6.5 to study this programme.
If you need assistance with your English language, we offer a range of courses that can help prepare you for postgraduate study .
These are the PG fees for students starting their programme in the 2025/2026 academic year.
If your fees are not listed here, please check our postgraduate fees guidance or contact the Fees Office , who can also advise you about how to pay your fees.
It’s not currently possible for international students to study part-time under a student visa.
If you think you might be eligible to study part-time while being on another visa type, please contact our Admissions Team for more information.
If you are looking to pay your fees please see our guide to making a payment .
Explore the Goldsmiths scholarships finder to find out what funding you may be eligible for.
If you are a UK student you may be eligible for a postgraduate loan .
Meanwhile our Careers Service can also offer advice on finding work during your studies.
Find out about paying your tuition fees .
In addition to your tuition fees, you'll be responsible for any additional costs associated with your course, such as buying stationery and paying for photocopying.
You can find out more about what you need to budget for on our study costs page .
There may also be specific additional costs associated with your programme.
Please check the programme specification for more information.
Please note, the fees listed are for the entire 15-month programme.
You apply directly to Goldsmiths using our online application system.
To complete your application, you will need to prepare and submit:
You'll be able to save your progress at any point and return to your application by logging in using your username/email and password.
Read our guide to applying for a postgraduate degree at Goldsmiths .
Ros's engagement with art, ecology and climate justice involves collaborations with artists, scientists and activists.
A re/searcher thinking, feeling and sensing beyond-the-human.
Top image credit: Emily Murayama, 'Sofa, So Food', 2019.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/pg/mfa-fine-art:
If you have specific questions about the degree, contact John Chilver .
2 years full-time, or 4 years part-time, or 3 years combined full-time and part-time
Home - full-time: £13600 Home - part-time: £5625 International - full-time: £30750
The programme is divided into two parts:
Can be taken either full-time for one year (until late July) or part-time for two years (until late July in both years).
This year seeks to establish the core concerns and ambitions of your art.
Can be taken either full-time for one year (until late August) or part-time for two years (until late July, and then until late August in the final year).
This stage of the programme enables you to address your ambitions for your art with an awareness of how it is situated.
Applicants who have already been awarded 120 credits from another suitably related postgraduate study may be able to apply for direct entry into Year Two of the programme on either a full or part-time basis.
You may also take advantage of an exit point at the end of Year One of the programme and graduate with a Postgraduate Diploma in Fine Art.
(The Postgraduate Diploma is not to be confused with the Goldsmiths Graduate Diploma in Art , which is a different programme.)
Our two-stage programme is designed to subject the making of artwork, the ideas and concepts involved, and the works of art themselves, to artistic and critical scrutiny.
This will include individually directed research to review, consolidate and strengthen your individual position as an artist.
We place a strong emphasis on student-centred learning – especially on your individual response to the divergent views you will experience in relation to your practice.
Among other qualities, you are expected to:
Learning on the programme is primarily achieved through an appropriate combination of self-initiated and directed work in studio practice and Critical Studies.
Individual tutorials, crits, workshops and art practice areas support this work.
The three examination elements for both Year One and Year Two are:
All three elements must be passed to successfully complete each part of the programme.
Each element of examination has both progression and final points of assessment.
Studio crits help you develop the confidence and ability to discuss your own work and the work of others, and to use the combined knowledge and experience of the group to assist in understanding and developing your own practice.
This element of the programme is student-led with tutors responding to the needs and concerns of the participants.
Studio crits are organised by groups and take place weekly.
Each full-time student presents work for a crit twice in the year.
Discussion with tutors builds your understanding of the particular demands of your art practice.
You receive scheduled one-to-one tutorials with your Group Tutors and other staff from the study area.
Two tutorials per term are scheduled with the core studio staff.
In addition, you are expected to select a number of Visiting Tutors relevant to your practice for tutorials.
These tutors are chosen in consultation with your Group Tutor and cover a wide range of specialisms.
The Visiting Tutors scheme allows you to invite artists, curators or other significant figures of your own choice to focus a conversation around your artwork.
You are expected to write a report immediately after each tutorial, summarising what took place and recording your considered responses to it.
These reports contribute to your final assessment in each year.
By the end of the programme you are expected to have established a clear articulation of the principal critical concerns and interests of your practice.
This aim is supported by studio-based teaching and individualised discussions with your Critical Studies tutors, a crit devoted to the contextual research in which you locate your practice, and assessable essay writing.
The workshops are offered in two phases in the first year: in each phase there is a choice of four staff-led, discussion-based sessions on a philosophical, theoretical or historical topic relevant to contemporary art practice, which may involve texts to be read in advance.
Each student takes two workshops during the first year (students may apply to substitute part of this requirement with structured independent study).
Student-led collaborative events, supported by staff and teaching assistants around a topic of mutual interest, are held during the second year.
These will involve engagement with the professional art community, may take place outside Goldsmiths in collaboration with other institutions such as museums and galleries, and may culminate in an open event or publication.
Students on the programme are based in dedicated postgraduate studio space in Lewisham Southwark College at Deptford Bridge.
Deptford is home to a burgeoning creative community with many art spaces and influences.
The postgraduate studios are a short walk from the art practice areas in New Cross.
You may also choose to travel by bus between the two sites, which would incur a small travel cost.
During the year we hold regular Postgraduate Art Open Days that we encourage you to attend if you can.
You can also explore our exhibitions, events and other work on the Department of Art pages.
Graduates from the Goldsmiths MFA Fine Art establish themselves as artists of significance in the field of contemporary fine art.
Many have won prizes and shown in exhibitions of international importance.
They have also had work acquired by museums and national collections.
Upon completion of the MFA programme the majority of graduates continue with the critically informed art practices they have fostered at Goldsmiths and go on to contribute effectively to the development of contemporary fine art in whichever cultural location and working practice they are situated.
These individual and collective undertakings importantly spur a 'tectonic' change in the concerns and critical competencies of contemporary fine art with respect to the cultures in which it takes place and which it addresses.
Some graduates of the programme proceed to research-level study in various fields of fine art, while others establish themselves as teachers in the subject area.
Several have established reputations as writers on contemporary art, some in journals of national and international status.
Others have gone on to teach on – and lead – fine art programmes at universities.
See our list of recent MFA art alumni list .
The programme supports students’ professional development with the following provisions:
You must have or expect to be awarded an undergraduate degree of at least second class standard (or international equivalent), plus experience as an artist.
You must already be in possession of 120 grade credits from another suitably related postgraduate study to apply for direct entry into Year Two of the programme on either a full or part-time basis.
You need to have your own studio space in which to work over the four years of the programme.
You may also be considered for the MFA Fine Art programme if you are not a graduate or if your undergraduate degree is in an unrelated field, but you have relevant experience and can show that you have the ability to work at postgraduate level.
To complete your application, you will need to have:
We prefer that you send up to 20 images in a PDF file, movie clips or web links as your portfolio via our online application system.
You will be asked to do this when you apply online.
Please include information on the size, media, duration and year of works as appropriate.
Only complete applications together with portfolios can be considered.
We examine portfolios, and may invite you to attend an interview.
Interviews are carried out online.
We accept applications from October for students wanting to start the following September.
Application deadline: midnight on 31 January 2025.
Shortlisting will take place following the application deadline.
Applications received after the deadline will be considered if there are still places available.
We encourage you to complete your application as early as possible, even if you haven't finished your current programme of study.
It's very common to be offered a place that is conditional on you achieving a particular qualification.
If you're applying for funding, you may be subject to an earlier application deadline.
Suhail’s research is on the theme of invention in contemporary European philosophy and critical theory.
David Mabb
Artists teaching studio practice include:
Staff teaching critical studies include:
The admissions tutor for this programme is John Chilver.
Find out more about staff in the Department of Art .
Top image credit: Tyler Eash, "and that lump at the back of your throat is all you know that's real".
Goldsmiths MFA Fine Art Degree Show 2019.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/art/research/staff/dm/01:
d.mabb (@gold.ac.uk)
Instagram @david_mabb
Academia.edu
David Mabb is an artist who works with appropriated imagery to rethink the political implications of different aesthetic forms in modern art and design history.
Recent work has focussed on the designs of 19th Century English interior designer, writer and socialist William Morris.
Mabb’s interest in Morris stems from the social and political connotations of Morris’ work, the continued relevancy of Morris’ politics and the continuing market for Morris’ designs.
Mabb’s interpretations or reconfigurations of Morris’ designs consider the relationship between Morris’ own work and other forms of cultural production.
MFA Fine Art

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/art/staff/reynolds-elle:
e.reynolds (@gold.ac.uk)
Website ellereynolds.com
Elle works with materials to explore alternative pedagogies, collaborative and informal spaces for learning.
Scholar/researcher/quiet disrupter, Elle Reynolds has an extensive background in organising practice and teaching within art higher education.
Yet she continually challenges traditional institutional structures, reimagining the use of time and space in academia.
Working both within and against these frameworks, Elle formulates strategies for alternative models of education systematically applying her concept of Diagonal Practices.
Her making includes object installation, collaborative events, performative lectures, and interventions that unsettle the notion of archive through spatial exploration, participation, and the disruption of academic language.
She holds a PhD investigating alternative art school spaces and serves as a Non-Executive Director and Board member of TOMA (The Other MA), an alternative art school in Southend-on-Sea, Essex.
Elle is currently Programme Leader of the Graduate Diploma in Art at Goldsmiths.
A current project situates Morass as a living site within an overarching and iterative mapping of alternative art education.
It explores Morass in Negril, Jamaica, not as a fixed location, but as a constellation of spaces: environmental, historical, and conceptual.
In removing the definite article, Morass becomes fluid: a living site, a place of nourishment and connection for biodiversity, and a sanctuary for marooned or peripheral communities.
It is conceived as an evolving cartography of fragments, memory, and resistance.
Through collaborative mappings, we/the project investigate transitions from sea to seagrass meadows to swamp, tracing the movement of water as it travels, deposits, and shapes terrain.
By drawing on local knowledge systems and responding to site-based and documented social, political, and material narratives, Morass becomes both a tool of orientation and a call to attention.
It points to the possibilities of the then and now, reimagines and imagines actions and languages, forming one aspect of a wider conceptual map.
Elle is a member of the collaborative project, No Telos, which was part of the Research Pavilion, Venice 2019.
Additionally her work has been exhibited and performed at locations, art spaces and galleries, in Estonia, Italy, Romania, Spain and the United Kingdom.
She has held External Examiner positions for many years.
Elle is currently on the board of Directors for TOMA, (The Other MA), Southend on Sea.
2025: How to set up an art school A small selected mapping of some UK alternative pedagogies; a fold out publication with hand cut tracing paper viewfinder.
TOMA Policies of Care developed for TOMA, The Other MA.
2025: 
                                Clubbing & commune-ing Mapping/postcard artworks for a project, publication, exhibition looking at clubbing & commune-ing (end 2025).
April 2025 : Residency at Studio 459, Tomar, Portugal.
2025: A Vision With Artists: New Contemporaries at the ICA Workshop: A Vision With Artists, The first iteration of A Vision With Artists, a New Contemporaries event, was an afternoon dedicated to thoughtful and inclusive discussions.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/ug/ba-social-community-work:
UK and international students need to apply through UCAS.
Except those inside the Crimea Region/Sevastopol, the so-called Donetsk People's Republic (DNR) / Luhansk People's Republic (LNR), Cuba, Iran, North Korea or Syria who need to use our alternative application form.
If you have specific questions about the degree, contact Lara Paquete Pereira or Andy Turner .
L541
A-level: CC BTEC: MPP IB: Successful completion
3 years full-time
Home - full-time: £9535 International - full-time: £20650
Social, Therapeutic and Community Studies
In the first year you take the following modules:
Note about optional modules (if available): The above is indicative of the typical modules offered, but is not intended to be construed or relied on as a definitive list of what might be available in any given year.
The module content and availability is subject to change.
In the second year, you will study the following compulsory modules:
You also choose one of the following modules:
In the third year of the degree you will take the following compulsory modules:
The programme offers a balance between practical and academic work.
It is responsive to changes in the wider political and policy context, and places emphasis on working with communities in ways which empower them to understand and address the contradictory implications.
Examined work includes essays, written reports, self assessments, seminar and workshop presentations, self-directed projects and work experience.
This programme is mainly taught through scheduled learning - a mixture of lectures, seminars and workshops.
The curriculum draws on a wide range of intellectual resources, academic disciplines, and teaching methods, and will help you to develop the skills needed to work in different settings and organisations.
You'll engage in group work and participative learning, which will allow you to practice and apply what you learn in a very real sense with tutors and other students.
You’ll also be expected to undertake a significant amount of independent study.
This includes carrying out required and additional reading, preparing topics for discussion, and producing essays or project work.
We accept the following qualifications:
A-level: CC BTEC: MPP International Baccalaureate: Successful completion
If you can't find your qualification here, then please visit our entry requirements page for a list of alternative qualifications.
See our full list of undergraduate entry qualifications .
We welcome students with a range of educational experiences.
If you believe you may not meet the standard qualification requirements we would still encourage you to apply because we consider all aspects of your application when making a decision.
We’ll pay particularly careful attention to your personal statement, which is your opportunity to demonstrate your interest in the subject you’ve applied for.
Your referees are also welcome to include any relevant contextual comments around your academic achievements.
We’ll look at all these things when making a decision on your application, as well as your qualifications and grades.
We also accept a wide range of international qualifications.
If English isn’t your first language, you will need an IELTS score (or equivalent English language qualification ) of 6.0 no element lower than 5.5 to study this programme.
If you need assistance with your English language, we offer a range of courses that can help prepare you for degree-level study .
These are the UG fees for students starting their programme in the 2025/2026 academic year.
If your fees are not listed here, please check our undergraduate fees guidance or contact the Fees Office , who can also advise you about how to pay your fees.
It’s not currently possible for international students to study part-time if you require a Student Visa, however this is currently being reviewed and will be confirmed in the new year.
Please read our visa guidance in the interim for more information.
We offer a wide range of scholarships and bursaries, and our Careers Service can also offer advice on finding work during your studies.
Find out more about funding your studies with us .
This programme will give you a strong foundation for moving into a career in the public and social professions, and the charity sector.
You will be given a broad introduction to work with young people and communities without restricting to a career and combine academic study with placements in professional practice to equip you for your chosen profession.
The programme is also a gateway into social work, youth work, community work, other social care and public professions.
You will be well equipped to work with people in a range of contexts or to qualify in your chosen field of interest at MA level.
The Department of Social, Therapeutic and Community Studies (STaCS) offers a guaranteed interview for all graduates of this programme who meet the entry requirements for selected MA programmes in Community Development, Youth Work, and a range of Counselling and Therapies programmes.
Find out more about employability at Goldsmiths .
The following staff teach on this programme.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/ug/ba-community-youth-work:
L530
The degree is professionally recognised by the National Youth Agency (NYA) and endorsed by the Endorsement and Quality Standards Board for Community Development Learning .
This programme is taught through a mixture of lectures, seminars and workshops.
You’ll be assessed through a combination of coursework, assignment, presentation, dissertation, self-reflection reports and portfolio.
It's allowed me to exercise my voice, express myself, learn from many people from all walks of life...
and gain leadership skills that I often doubted
View profile
The BA Social Science, Community Development & Youth Work course was so important to me as it helped me to develop a critical mindset.
I couldn't recommend the course enough, it's a very different university experience, there is nothing like it.
A-level: CC BTEC: MPP International Baccalaureate: Successful completion Access: Pass with 45 Level 3 credits including a number of distinctions/merits in subject specific modules Scottish qualifications: CCCCC (Higher) or CC (Advanced Higher) European Baccalaureate: 60%
You'll also need
In some cases, it may be possible to admit applicants on the basis of practical experience alone, provided that evidence of this experience is presented at interview.
On successful completion of the programme you will be awarded a BA (Hons) degree in Social Science, Community Development and Youth Work; a professional qualification recognised by the National Youth Agency (NYA) and the Joint Negotiating Committee for Youth and Community Workers (JNC) .
The programme can lead to careers in the broad community development, community and youth work field in statutory, voluntary and independent sectors.
Former students have gone on to work as:
They have also worked in the following areas:
The programme will give you practical experience in several community and youth work settings – having this real-world experience will set you apart in the job market.
In addition you will develop the following transferable skills:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/stacs/staff/woodger-david:
With thirty years’ experience in community development, David works with young people on issues of race and adoption.
d.woodger (@gold.ac.uk)
David has been active in community development and working with young people for 30 years and continues to work in the field.
He has written and published on race and adoption, institutional racism and group work.
He has undertaken work on numerous school issues including exclusions, truancy, sex and relationship education, learning and teaching and introducing group work approaches to teaching.
David teaches organisation and management, race, identity and institutional racism, international development and a range of social policy areas and community and youth work.
He is also one of the course group workers.
BA (Hons) Social Science and Qualification in Social Work and Msc International Development (SOAS)
Race and racism/organisation development/international development/group work/youth and crime/education.
Recent presentation to group-work conference and faith and community cohesion conference summer 2010.
Group-work paper and Cohesion project paper
Institutional racism/race and racism/ school and professional responses to vulnerable young people / group work impact and effectiveness in personal and social development/ faith islamaphobia and community cohesion.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/stacs/staff/thompson-naomi:
Naomi.Thompson (@gold.ac.uk)
Naomi is a sociologist of youth and inclusion with a particular interest in faith and other intersecting identities
My research focuses on issues of inclusion and exclusion for young people and communities.
I am interested in people's intersectional identities and experiences - and their relationships with religious and other institutions.
I teach primarily in the areas of social science, community development and youth work.
I approach research primarily from a sociological perspective, interested particularly in the everyday narratives of young people and communities.
My PhD was funded under the AHRC/ESRC Religion & Society programme and explored the peak and decline of the Sunday School Movement in the twentieth century, as well as young people’s engagement with churches in the present day.
It was the first substantial study of Sunday school history to explore internal reasons for young people's declining engagement with churches and their experiences of rejection and exclusion.
My current research includes a study of people's religious and spiritual choices in everyday funerals - as well as how these choices vary by age.
I am also conducting a study of the experiences of young black and racially minoritised people on social media.
I recently led a large Erasmus+ project with international partners from Turkey, Poland, France and Cyprus that developed training and resources for youth workers relating to child sexual exploitation.
I also recently completed a three-year study of refugee and migrant women's experiences of integration.
As a researcher, I am most interested in co-produced and applied research that ensures the voices of young people and communities are heard, particularly where these voices have been marginalised and/or excluded.
I undertake research that provides clear implications for communities and services and regularly engage in public fora to disseminate my research findings.
I edit for the open access journal, Youth & Policy .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/contact/notice-and-takedown-procedure:
Goldsmiths acts in good faith when making materials available on its website.
Nonetheless we acknowledge that mistakes may occur and problems may arise.
If you are concerned that the use of any materials on Goldsmiths’ website:
Or you have any other concerns or issues, please contact us at: cmr (@gold.ac.uk)
Please state that you are writing pursuant to Goldsmiths’ Notice and Takedown Procedure, and include the following information:
Upon receipt of a complaint the following Notice and Takedown Procedure will be adopted:
NB: for the purposes of this Notice and Takedown Procedure, working days are taken to be Mondays to Fridays (inclusive) apart from public holidays in England and other days when Goldsmiths is officially closed for business.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/find-us/mobility-guide:
Information about accessing our buildings for visitors with mobility difficulties.
The Goldsmiths campus comprises a number of new and older buildings (some dating from Victorian times).
The campus is relatively compact and it's possible to go from one end of campus to the other, within ten minutes.
Most of the larger buildings used for teaching purposes have step-free access, lifts and accessible toilet facilities.
Every single building can't claim to be fully accessible, but there's no reason why anyone should be prevented from full participation in Goldsmiths activities, with a little bit of advanced planning.
If you have any questions about the accessibility of Goldsmiths, please email disability (@gold.ac.uk) .
If you are thinking of attending a particular event in any of our buildings on campus, and you have mobility needs, please do contact the person or the department organising the event, in advance, and seek their advice.
If you are travelling by car, please contact the person you are visiting at least 48 hours in advance, so that they can make arrangements with College Services to accommodate you, as appropriate.
Full accessibility guide for the Richard Hoggart Building on AccessAble
Full accessibility guide for the Library on AccessAble
Full accessibility guide for the Warmington Tower on AccessAble
This building was previously known as the Education Building
Full accessibility guide for Margaret McMillian on AccessAble
Full accessibility guide for Goldsmiths Students' Union on AccessAble
Full accessibility guide for Deptford Town Hall on AccessAble
Full accessibility guide for Loring Hall Management Centre on AccessAble
Full accessibility guide for St James Hatcham on AccessAble
Full accessibility guide for Ben Pimlott Building on AccessAble
All locations are accessible to wheelchair users via lifts and ramps, except for
Full accessibility guide for Lockwood Building on AccessAble
All locations are accessible to wheelchair users via lifts and ramps.
Accessible toilets on every floor.
Full accessibility guide for Professor Stuart Hall Building on AccessAble
Email us at: disability (@gold.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/working/applying:
Our available jobs are listed on jobs.gold.ac.uk.
See advice on searching and using the listings .
See the Job application guide for how to use our online application system .
We do not accept postal applications and invite applicants to apply for all vacancies online .
If you have a disability that could make this difficult, please email hr-recruitment (@gold.ac.uk) to discuss alternative arrangements.
The closing time for submitting a job application is 2359 UK time.
HR staff are only available to assist with queries from 9am-5pm, Monday to Friday.
We recommend submitting your application at least an hour ahead of the deadline, in case of any technical issues.
Each role will have an accompanying job description and person specification.
This serves as an indication of what we are looking for.
Each criterion specified will be listed as essential or desirable.
We will shortlist candidates who demonstrate they meet the essential criteria and as many of the desirable criteria as possible using a points-based system.
Those who score the highest will be invited to interview, so it is important to provide clear evidence of how you meet each criterion.
Once the deadline has passed, the recruiting manager and shortlisting panel will consider all submitted applications.
These will be assessed on how closely they match the requirements of the job description.
The shortlisting process can take several days, depending on the number of applications that have been received.
If you are selected, you will be invited to attend an interview.
If you have not received an invitation to interview within six weeks of the closing date, please assume that you have not been successful on this occasion.
If you are invited to interview, we will contact you via email as soon as possible after the shortlisting decision has been made.
In this email, you'll be provided with full details about the interview, including its format, directions to the campus, and details of any formal assessment exercise such as a test or presentation.
If attending an interview in person might be difficult, please contact hr-recruitment (@gold.ac.uk) as it may be possible to arrange a video interview instead.
If you have specific accessibility requirements, get in touch with the HR team to discuss any adjustments to the interview process.
Goldsmiths is an accredited Disability Confident Employer .
While we will try to be as flexible as possible to accommodate your needs in assigning interview dates and times, the interview panel may not always be available.
Unfortunately, it is not always possible to rearrange an interview.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/working/search:
We have a variety of academic, technical and professional roles at Goldsmiths with the jobs that are currently available listed online.
Search jobs.gold.ac.uk for current vacancies at Goldsmiths
The current vacancies page lists jobs in order of date published, so our newly published vacancies will always be found at the top of the current vacancies page.
However, closing dates vary, so it is important to check the detail of the advert if the role interests you.
To refine your search, click on the menu icon at the top right corner of the screen and select 'Advance search'.
Jobs can be refined by vacancy type (fixed-term/permanent), full-time or part-time roles, salary or by using key words.
Once you have found a vacancy that sparks your interest, it is important to ensure that you read the finer detail of the role by fully reading the advert, job description and person speciation.
You can do this by clicking on the advert.
In order to find out more about the role and assess whether it is for you, you will need to download and read the job description.
The key details of the role are listed at the top of each advert.
Within this section, you will find a header titled ‘Documents’ where you will find the link to the job description.
If you click on this link, it will automatically open up the job description.
The job description sets out the main duties and responsibilities of the role.
It also includes a person specification, which details the skills and attributes required of the successful candidate.
You can decide whether the role is for you by assessing the following:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/working/benefits:
Goldsmiths is aligned with other similar institutions in how our salary, pensions and holidays work.
At Goldsmiths, we value being a learning-focused organisation.
We offer a range of activities and resources to develop the social, physical, mental and financial elements of wellbeing.
Our six networks offer staff an opportunity to connect with colleagues.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/working/disability:
Goldsmiths is an accredited Disability Confident Employer.
We are committed to the aims of Disability Confident, and in particular, we will:
As part of our commitment, we ask all job applicants if they want to be considered under the Disability Confident Scheme.
If you are disabled and apply for a job under the scheme, the recruitment panel will guarantee an interview if they feel your application meets all the essential criteria for the role.
Please note, by opting into this scheme, you are disclosing that you are disabled solely for the purpose of applying for a guaranteed interview, and we will not assume nor infer that you wish to disclose or record that you are disabled in any other way – including any reasonable adjustments you may need if you are employed.
It is important that you let us know as soon as possible if you have any specific requirements we can assist with during the recruitment process.
Access arrangements might include (among others):
Please note this information will not be part of the selection process and will only be available to those involved in arranging the interview.
For more information or assistance completing the application process, please contact hr (@gold.ac.uk) .
Read about Goldsmiths’ proactive work to advance equality and celebrate diversity .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/working/moving-to-uk:
All you need to know if you're moving to the UK from abroad to work at Goldsmiths.
To receive a salary, Goldsmiths staff must hold a UK bank account.
Before you move to the UK, it is worth contacting your current bank to find out the following:
To open a UK bank account, you will need to provide the following documentation:
Various types of bank accounts are available for you to manage your money.
It is possible to open more than one account, and they don't have to be with the same bank or building society.
The Money Advice Service provides independent information on choosing the right type of account for your needs.
Visa and MasterCard are widely accepted across London.
London evolved from the joining together of many small villages.
Now the city is made up of 33 boroughs, all of which hold their centre and character.
Goldsmiths’ campus is situated in lively New Cross in South East London and is only 10 minutes from central London by train.
Travelling across London is made easy with a public transport system of trains, tubes and buses.
Goldsmiths’ local guides have much information on the various neighbourhoods across South and East London.
You can also visit the Findahood website for more detailed information on particular areas across the city.
This Rightmove tool suggests places based on your budget and property criteria.
Similarly, Commute From lets you search for an area based on the length of the commute and then provides you with average house prices, details of local schools, crime rates and links to local estate agents.
Rightmove and Zoopla are the main online search engines to use when finding a place to rent or buy.
Using these websites, you can filter through properties by the number of bedrooms, area, price and more.
Each property will be linked to an estate agent who you can contact for more details and to arrange a viewing.
Gumtree or Spare Room are useful if you are looking to rent a single room within a house.
The London housing market provides a wide range of properties available to rent, with the minimum rental period between six and twelve months.
Renters will normally be required to pay a holding fee to secure a property, along with a deposit of one or two months’ rent.
You can rent a property in an unfurnished, partially furnished or fully furnished state.
If the property is furnished, it is important to check the inventory list carefully before signing, and you should always ask for a copy for your records.
You may wish to ask your previous landlord for a reference to pass on to your potential landlord or letting agency.
HR can provide you with confirmation of your salary.
Once you have found a property, you will be asked to sign a contract, also known as a tenancy agreement.
This document will contain all the information about your rental agreement, including how much rent should be paid, the length of your tenancy, and both your and your landlord's rights.
If you do not understand something contained within the agreement, hold off signing the contract and ask for clarification.
Once you have signed the contract, make sure you keep a copy for your records.
For help and advice on housing, contact the Citizens Advice Bureau .
If you intend to be in the UK for a longer time period, you may wish to consider buying a property.
GOV.UK provides an overview of the process and the costs that are involved.
The reimbursement of reasonable relocation expenses may be made to eligible new members of staff.
Please contact hr-recruitment (@gold.ac.uk) for more information.
Free healthcare is available to all UK residents through the NHS.
Staff working in the UK for longer than six months are eligible.
Most NHS services are free at the point of use, although prescriptions have a fee attached.
Some services may require you to register before you can use them.
There are many healthcare facilities close to Goldsmiths.
Any resident can register with a GP practice in England and receive free primary care.
GP’s are doctors who deal with both physical and mental health problems and can prescribe medicine that you are unable to buy from pharmacies.
GP practices have catchment areas, therefore it is important to check if your place of residence is within the boundaries of a practice .
It's up to the GP practice to decide if they're accepting patients at any given time, but they can only refuse for non-discriminatory reasons.
Registered with a GP practice does not mean you're automatically entitled to free NHS hospital treatment.
Please visit the NHS Website for more information.
Immediate medical care is available by dialling 999 and requesting an ambulance.
However, this number is only to be used for life-threatening situations.
Accident and Emergency (A&E) provides emergency care for badly injured or those with serious symptoms.
They usually have a long waiting time for non-emergency cases.
If you’re unsure, you can dial 111 24 hours a day and speak to an NHS advisor.
They can give you information on local services, connect you to a doctor or nurse, or let you know if it sounds like you need professional medical attention.
Find your local accident and emergency service
At pharmacies, you're able to buy some medicines over the counter, as well as pick up medicine that your doctor has prescribed.
In England, a small fee is usually charged for prescription medicine.
Pharmacists are qualified healthcare professionals and can assist and give advice on minor illnesses.
You can book an appointment at any opticians that suits you.
You will be charged a fee for the appointment, and further charges will be incurred if you need to buy prescription glasses.
As part of  Goldsmiths Staff Wellbeing, we offer a free eye test voucher to all employees.
While sorting out childcare can be a big task, many options are available to you in the UK.
Childcare for children under the age of 4 is usually not available free of charge in the UK.
The range and cost of childcare varies significantly but it is generally expensive.
Childcare is typically available Monday to Friday and not on weekends.
It will also vary depending on nursery term times.
Nurseries accept preschool children as young as 3 months but the exact age will vary depending on the nursery.
Similarly, some schools have a nursery attached, which children aged three can attend part-time.
Childminders are registered individuals who look after children in their own homes, in return for payment.
To find out more about daycare or childminding within the Borough of Lewisham, please visit Lewisham.gov.uk.
On campus in the Students' Union, Goldsmiths has a 25-place nursery for children aged between 3 months and 5 years.
Staff who wish to use this service must apply for a place for their child but please note that numbers are limited.
All nursery staff are highly qualified and extremely experienced in early years' practice.
In the UK, education is compulsory for children aged between 5 and 17, with a free place at a state school offered to all children.
Most parents choose to send their children to a state school, but independent or homeschooling is available.
If you will be employed in the UK for 12 months or more, your child is legally required to attend school.
The Local Education Authority will provide them a place, free of charge, in a school near your residence.
However, different rules apply to those making applications for children not yet living in the UK.
These rules are explained in the School Admissions Code .
There are four compulsory education stages:
Primary schools often cater for KS1 and KS2, although they can be separate.
At age 11, children will go straight from primary to secondary school, which is KS3 and KS4.
Young people in the UK are required to stay in some form of education until the end of the academic year in which they turn 17, although this does not necessarily mean staying in school.
Please speak with schools individually to find out more about:
To research schools in your area and to compare school performance, visit GOV.UK .
Each school has different term dates.
However, most school years begin in September and end in late July.
The academic year is split into three terms: Autumn, Spring and Summer.
The average school day will run between 9am and 3.30 pm.
Halfway through the term, there is usually a one or two-week holiday but this will depend on the school.
Schools may also run after-school activities in which your child may be eligible to participate.
London is one of the most expensive cities in the UK.
Along with the cost of accommodation, there are many other expenses which need to be considered.
Every household in England has to pay council tax to cover the cost of public services such as rubbish collection, street lighting, library, police and fire services.
Council tax applies to all domestic properties, regardless of whether owned or rented.
The amount of council tax you pay will depend on the valuation band that your property falls into.
You must let the council know how many people live on the property, as living alone may entitle you to a single-person’s discount.
There are various ways to pay, including direct debit or by phone.
For more information about council tax, visit your local council ’s website.
You will need to arrange utilities such as gas, electricity and water upon moving into your new home.
In some cases, bills for these services will be included in rent payments, but usually,, this will be paid separately and directly to the provider.
Your water supplier will depend on the area in which you live, details of which can be found on the Ofwat website.
The Citizens Advice Bureau provides a comprehensive and impartial guide to providers on their website, which you may find useful.
For gas and electricity, there are several suppliers and you should choose the one that suits you best.
Comparison websites like Uswitch can help you search through suppliers and decide on the package you wish to go with.
It is worth noting that it is usually more cost-effective to buy gas and electricity from the same provider.
You will need to check the broadband coverage at your address, which can be done by entering your postcode onto comparison websites such as Broadband .
Many suppliers will cater to your postcode, each offering different deals.
Some suppliers offer bundle packages attached to a landline.
A valid TV licence must cover you if you watch or record TV as it’s being broadcast.
This includes using devices such as a computer, laptop or mobile phone to watch.
Full details of obtaining and paying for a TV licence are available on the TV licensing website .
If arriving from the EU, you can use your home plan to make and receive calls and texts and use data at no extra cost.
However, if you are moving to the UK long-term, it is advised that you set up a UK mobile plan.
You can purchase a SIM card upon arrival in the UK.
Various contract types are available, as well as Pay As You Go plans.
Make sure your phone is unlocked or can have dual sims so it will work in the UK.
National Insurance and Income Tax contributions are automatically removed from your monthly salary.
All employees in the UK must pay income tax, but the amount you pay will vary depending on the amount you earn.
Similarly, not all income is taxable, with tax-free allowance subject to annual change.
You may also have to pay UK Income Tax on foreign income, including any wages you earn abroad, foreign investment or rental income from overseas property.
National Insurance is a compulsory deduction from your income that funds state-provided services like pensions and health care.
The amount you pay will vary depending on your income, and once you reach state pension age, you are no longer required to contribute.
To work in the UK, you must have a National Insurance number, a personal number issued by the Department of Work and Pension (DWP).
It is used to record a person’s NI contribution, as well as being a reference number within the social security system.
It is not proof of identity.
If you have any queries regarding your National Insurance registration or other tax issues, you should contact HMRC .
You may already have an NI number, which will be printed on the back of your biometric residence permit.
If not, you must apply for one as soon as you arrive in the UK.
Once you have applied, you will receive a letter from the Department of Work and Pensions asking you to attend a National Insurance number interview.
You will need to bring documentation to prove your identity, such as:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/working/contact:
How to contact us for enquiries relating to recruitment at Goldsmiths and working here.
If you have a question about working at Goldsmiths or the application process, please contact our Human Resources team using the details below.
hr-recruitment (@gold.ac.uk)
Human Resources Goldsmiths, University of London New Cross London SE14 6NW UK
The HR Department is open Monday-Friday, 9am - 5pm.
If you have a question relating to a specific job role, please contact the recruiting manager whose details can be found in the relevant job description.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/students/disability-support/assistive-technology:
Assistive Technology can help you study more effectively.
If you have difficulty planning your time, brainstorming your ideas for an essay, reading or writing, or preparing for a presentation then our Assistive Technology could make the tasks easier.
If you would like to discuss the use of Assistive Technology with an adviser, please request an appointment .
The ATC is an open-access computer room for the use of students with a disability, specific learning difficulty, mental health needs or a long-term health condition.
All computers in the ATC have assistive software to support students to work effectively:
A number of the computers have:
Currently there are exams taking place in the ATC, so access may be limited.
During these times, the ATC Annexe will still be available for use.
For more information or queries, please contact library (@gold.ac.uk) or come to the help desk.
Access to the ATC is included in your Universal Reasonable Adjustments so you must have registered with the Disability and Inclusion Service to use it.
Then you can book the ATC online .
For help with the ATC facilities, contact the Disability Service .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/guide:
Governance describes the systems and processes that make sure an institution is not only legally compliant but also ethically and sustainably run.
This is overseen by a governing body, the College Council, who provide accountability and strategic oversight.
The Council ensures detailed scrutiny of the important decision-making processes through a committee structure that brings together staff, students, and independent members with the right balance of knowledge, skills and experience.
If have a query about governance email governance (@gold.ac.uk) .
Goldsmiths’ is required to follow the public interest governance principles.
Goldsmiths has 11 committees of Council and 13 committees or sub-committees.
Who is on committees and how they are recruited.
The main roles within a committee.
The Office for Students (OfS) is the regulator for all Higher Education Institutions in England.
Terms used in Governance at Goldsmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/committees:
Council is our senior governing body and is accountable to external bodies.
There are 11 committees of Council which cover all delegated areas of responsibility from finance to honorary degrees.
An additional 12 committees or sub-committees sit below and report to committees of Council.
Click on the committee name for terms of reference and membership.
Council

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/charter:
The founding document presented to the College by HM The Queen when it acquired its present status as a higher education institution in 1990
First approved with effect from 1 January 1990.
Amended by resolution of the Privy Council on 2 May 2007, with effect from 1 September 2007, and on 11 May 2010 and in June 2010, with effect from 1 September 2010.
ELIZABETH THE SECOND by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of Our other Realms and Territories Queen, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith:
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME, GREETING!
WHEREAS an Humble Petition has been presented unto Us by Our most dearly beloved Daughter the Princess Anne, the Princess Royal, Dame Grand Cross of Our Royal Victorian Order, the Chancellor of Our University of London, Our right trusty and well beloved Brian Hilton, Lord Flowers, Vice-Chancellor of Our University of London and the Delegacy of Our University of London Goldsmiths' College, praying that We should constitute and found a University College within the area of Greater London for the advancement of knowledge, the diffusion and extension of the Arts, Sciences and learning, the study of Education and the provision of liberal, professional, scientific and continuing education, and grant a Charter of Incorporation to Goldsmiths' College of Our University of London with such provisions in that behalf as shall seem to Us right and suitable:
AND WHEREAS We have taken the said Petition into Our Royal Consideration and are minded to accede thereto:
NOW THEREFORE KNOW YE that We by virtue of Our Prerogative Royal and of Our especial grace, certain knowledge and mere motion have willed and ordained and by these Presents do for Us, Our Heirs and Successors will and ordain as follows:
* Until 31 August 2007 the Charter provided for a senior administrative Officer known as Secretary and Registrar.
This title is retained in the First Schedule to the Statutes.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/statutes:
Printable version: Goldsmiths' Statutes March 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/ordinances:
Our Ordinances provide detailed information, terms and conditions about specific areas of College business and governance.
These Ordinances are approved by Council.
Printable version: Ordinances July 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/standing-orders:
The standard operating procedures explain the conduct and responsibilities of Council and its committees.
The Standing Orders were revised with effect from 1 September 2005, and again with effect from 1 September 2007, 1 September 2009, 1 September 2010, 1 September 2011, 1 September 2012, 1 September 2015, 25 June 2020, 25 March 2021 and 19 March 2025.
Printable version: Standing Orders March 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/financial-regulations:
Regulations from 1 August 2014.
Please note: Goldsmiths, University of London has concluded that it is not a contracting authority and accordingly from 1 August 2023 will “opt out” of the UK’s Public Contracts Regulations 2015 (the “Regulations”).
Goldsmiths nonetheless reserves the right at its own discretion to undertake certain procurement exercises in accordance with the Regulations.
Goldsmiths will revaluate its status with respect to the Regulations on an annual basis.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/policies:
Regulations, policies and procedures around students and teaching are held in the Goldsmiths Academic Manual .
This page lists Goldsmiths’ policies that are potentially relevant to students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection:
Goldsmiths creates, gathers, stores and processes large amounts of data on a variety of data subjects such as students, staff and customers.
Goldsmiths is committed to ensuring that data is managed and protected in line with the law and that the rights and freedoms of individuals are secured.
A suite of documentation which explains how Goldsmiths processes personal data and keeps it securely, as well as guidance, has been developed.
Privacy legislation gives you have a number of rights to decide how your personal information is processed, shared and kept.
Privacy notices set out important information on how Goldsmiths collects and uses personal information.
Goldsmiths has policies concerning data protection as well as information governance and security.
Guidance has been developed to help those handling information and personal data on behalf of the College.
If you have any questions or are unhappy with how we have used your personal information, you can contact our Data Protection Officer by email dp@gold.ac.uk .
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) is responsible for making sure that personal data is collected and processed in accordance with the Data Protection Act.
If you are dissatisfied with how we have processed your personal you may lodge a complaint with the ICO by contacting: Information Commissioner's Office, Wycliffe House, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF or by Telephone: 01625 545 700

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/antisemitism-inquiry-archive:
An independent inquiry into antisemitism is taking place at Goldsmiths, which includes an open call for evidence.
This is an archived page and will not be updated.
Find the latest information on Goldsmiths' action plan to address antisemitism .
The purpose of the inquiry is to determine whether Jewish students or staff have experienced antisemitism in the course of their studies or work at Goldsmiths.
It is also examining whether Goldsmiths has responded appropriately to any reports of antisemitism from students and staff and whether our processes and protocols are adequate.
The inquiry is being led by Mohinderpal Sethi KC, of Littleton Chambers.
The inquiry comes amid a growing focus on the duty of all universities to address reports of antisemitism, amid rising numbers of reports of such behaviours at British universities.
Students, staff, alumni and members of the public and public groups were able to submit relevant evidence, views or insights to the inquiry.
Submissions were open from 18 May 2023 until 18 August 2023 and evidence needed to relate to the period from 1 September 2018 onwards.
Submissions could include supporting materials like photographs and video.
Mr Sethi KC sought input from a wide range of voices and encouraged any individual or group with relevant evidence or views or insights on any matter within the scope of his independent inquiry to participate in this call for evidence.
Those matters could include, but were not limited to:
In addition, submissions could also relate to:
We asked for submissions by email, which have been shared with Mr Sethi KC.
Submissions could include supporting materials like photographs and video.
Those submitting evidence were required to read our privacy statement before emailing.
Last updated: 18 August 2023
An independent inquiry is currently being undertaken into concerns relating to antisemitism which may have been experienced by Jewish students and staff in the course of their studies or work at Goldsmiths, University of London (“Goldsmiths’ College”).
The Inquiry is being conducted by Mohinderpal Sethi KC of Littleton Chambers (the “Independent Inquiry Chair”).
This Privacy Notice explains how Goldsmiths’ College and the Independent Inquiry Chair will use personal information, who it may be shared with and how you can exercise your privacy rights.
If you have any questions or concerns about the use of your personal information, then please use the contact details provided at the bottom of this Privacy Notice.
The purpose for which Goldsmiths’ College and the Independent Inquiry Chair will collect and process personal information is to conduct an independent inquiry into concerns relating to antisemitism which may have been experienced by Jewish students and staff in the course of their studies or work at Goldsmiths’ College (the “Inquiry”).
Goldsmiths’ College is requesting that individuals and organisations submit evidence for the Independent Inquiry Chair to consider.
The Inquiry is not a statutory inquiry.
The Independent Inquiry Chair has no power to require witnesses to submit evidence or attend an interview (save as set out at paragraph 5.3 of the Terms of Reference for the Inquiry).
The Independent Inquiry Chair will produce a written report on his findings (the “Report”) and make any appropriate recommendations.
Goldsmiths’ College and the Independent Inquiry Chair are intending to use personal information in a number of ways.
For example, the Independent Inquiry Chair will:
Anyone who may be criticised in the Report prepared by the Independent Inquiry Chair will have the opportunity to correct any errors of fact in relation to that draft criticism prior to the Report being finalised (save where the Independent Inquiry Chair considers that to be impossible or inappropriate).
Personal information may also be used by the Independent Inquiry Chair to comply with the law.
Additionally, Goldsmiths’ College will:
Personal information will be collected, recorded and organised by Goldsmiths’ College and the Independent Inquiry Chair.
Personal information may be submitted in response to a “call for evidence” by anyone who has knowledge of matters relevant to the Inquiry.
In addition, the Independent Inquiry Chair may specifically request personal information from relevant individuals.
The categories of personal information which will be processed in relation to the Inquiry and the Report include:
The primary legal basis relied on for lawful processing by Goldsmiths’ College is Article 6(1)(e) of the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation ('UK GDPR'), processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest.
This is because the College is a public authority founded under Royal Charter and it has a duty to integrate consideration of equality and good relations into its day-to-day business of delivering public benefit through teaching, study, public service and research.
The primary legal basis relied on for lawful processing by the Independent Inquiry Chair is Article 6(1)(f) of the UK GDPR, processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data.
The legitimate interests in this context include:
The following applies to the processing of personal data both by Goldsmiths’ College and the Independent Inquiry Chair:
Personal information may be shared with other individuals who are taking part in the Inquiry, and may be included in the Report.
The Independent Inquiry Chair will protect personal information, including removing identifiers and redacting details which could be used to identify individuals, where it is appropriate to do so.
During the course of the Inquiry, personal information may be shared with the following groups of individuals:
You may wish to share information with the Independent Inquiry Chair on an anonymous basis.
If you wish to request anonymity, you should notify the Independent Inquiry Chair as soon as possible and he will consider whether he is able to agree your request or whether he requires further information to understand why you have made the request before determining it.
However, it may not be possible for the Independent Inquiry Chair to make findings or draw conclusions in relation to evidence provided anonymously.
This in turn may prevent Goldsmiths’ College from taking disciplinary or other action in connection with that evidence.
Personal information will be held by the Independent Inquiry Chair until the conclusion of the Inquiry.
At the end of the Inquiry, personal information will be retained until any relevant limitation periods in relation to the Inquiry have expired.
It will then be deleted.
Personal information will not be transferred overseas.
You have the following data protection rights:
The Inquiry will respond to all requests received from individuals wishing to exercise their data protection rights in accordance with applicable data protection laws.
Find out how to ask questions or raise concerns about the use of personal information .
This Privacy Notice may be updated from time to time.
When this Privacy Notice is updated, appropriate measures will be taken to inform you, consistent with the significance of the changes made.
You can see when this Privacy Notice was last updated by checking the “last updated” date displayed at the top of this Privacy Notice.
Mr Sethi KC will consider each submission and respond appropriately, which could include calling people for interview to gain further understanding of any issues.
On completion of the inquiry, a report of its findings will be published on the Goldsmiths website.
The inquiry will be able to recommend any appropriate actions, including restorative actions, that Goldsmiths should take as well as recommend any required lesson learning.
Independent inquiry into antisemitism terms of reference (PDF)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/antisemitism-action-plan:
Antisemitism is not tolerated at Goldsmiths and we are acting against such behaviour as a form of racism.
We are taking action after an independent inquiry commissioned by Goldsmiths' Council, our governing body, concluded that Jewish students and staff have experienced antisemitism in the course of the studies or work at Goldsmiths.
The inquiry led by Mohinderpal Sethi KC, of Littleton Chambers, also found that the university could have done more when responding to reports of antisemitism and that our processes and protocols must be improved.
The Council and Executive Board of Goldsmiths fully endorse the findings of the inquiry.
Goldsmiths has appointed Professor Adam Dinham to lead a two-year antisemitism action plan.
This will build a culture of belonging for all Jewish students and staff, and for all religions and beliefs at the university, nurturing evidence-based dialogue, positive activism and engagement.
Independent inquiry into antisemitism at Goldsmiths' College
With antisemitism sadly shown to have risen across the university sector, reflecting a broader increase across society, we felt it was vital to have a clear picture of the situation at Goldsmiths.
The resulting report makes for hard reading and gives us a clear mandate for taking decisive action to ensure that there is no antisemitism at our university.
Chair of Goldsmiths Council Tom Sleigh
The Chair of Council added: "Thank you to all who contributed evidence to the inquiry, and participated in any way.
I am especially grateful to Mohinderpal Sethi KC and his team for their tireless work on this important matter.”
In recent years the Community Security Trust, a UK charity that works to protect Jewish people from antisemitism and other threats, has reported a significant increase in antisemitic incidents on UK university campuses.
The purpose of the independent inquiry was to determine whether Jewish students or staff had experienced antisemitism in the course of their studies or work at Goldsmiths, since September 2018.
The inquiry points out similarities between the Jewish student experience at Goldsmiths, at other universities and in the NUS.
Welcoming recent progress, the inquiry invites Goldsmiths to reset its culture through a restorative, relational approach, understanding antisemitism as a form of racism.
The inquiry makes 17 practical recommendations to improve the student and staff experience, including training, complaints and acceptable behaviour.
The inquiry’s recommendations are explicitly designed to be compatible with protections for legitimate political protest.
This aims to reassure concerns about freedom of speech for those seeking to criticise Israel and promote the cause of Palestine on campus.
Goldsmiths accepts the independent inquiry’s findings without reservation.
We commit to implementing all 17 recommendations through a two-year antisemitism action plan.
Within this action plan, a key initiative is to put in place a university framework for positive activism and engagement.
The action plan is being led by Adam Dinham, Professor of Religion and Belief Literacy and University Lead for Culture and Inclusion.
He will be supported by the newly-established Religion and Belief Group.
This brings together academic and professional expertise in religion and belief literacy, activism, inclusion, and social justice.
By the end of Autumn term in academic year 2025/26, Goldsmiths will:
By the end of academic year 2026/27, Goldsmiths will make progress in five areas:
Goldsmiths will be guided by these principles, based on the inquiry recommendations:
Read the full antisemitism action plan
Antisemitism has no place at Goldsmiths.
As with all forms of racism, antisemitism prevents people from entering, enjoying and contributing fully to our university.
The inquiry sets out a disturbing picture and I am sorry that our community and culture fell short of the behaviours we expect.
Professor Frances Corner, Vice-Chancellor of Goldsmiths
Professor Corner added: "The report rightly states that we owe it to former, current and future Jewish students and staff to learn from our mistakes.
“We share responsibility, as a community, to show Goldsmiths can be a place where Jewish students and staff feel valued, supported, and proud to be part of our university.
"As the inquiry highlights, we are already making progress on key issues.
Today, we commit to lasting cultural change with respect to Jewish students and staff, and for all religions and beliefs, drawing on our intellectual heritage and our longstanding belief in social justice."
Goldsmiths has appointed Dr Emma Davies as interim chair of the antisemitism action plan advisory group until the end of September 2025.
A Senior Lecturer in Forensic Psychology, Dr Davies has been appointed given her extensive experience in community engagement and dialogue-building.
In this first phase, Dr Davies will listen to stakeholders’ hopes, concerns and suggestions for effective implementation of Goldsmiths’ antisemitism action plan which was approved by Goldsmiths’ Council on 25 June 2025.
Stakeholders include Jewish students and staff, Student and Staff unions, the Union of Jewish Students, University Jewish Chaplaincy, the Community Security Trust and the Board of Deputies.
A permanent Chair of the action plan advisory group will be appointed in September through an internal invitation of expressions of interest for the role.
Going forward, an antisemitism action plan project board will oversee the delivery of work which will include senior colleagues from across the university including the institution’s lead for freedom of speech and the Chair of the new religion and belief group to ensure that our work considers and meets all of our responsibilities and duties.
The antisemitism action plan project board will be chaired by Professor Adam Dinham, Pro Vice Chancellor and Executive Dean, and will report to Executive Board and Council.
Read previously-published information about the inquiry

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/rights:
You have the right to:
You have the right to request a copy of the personal information Goldsmiths holds of yours ( a Data Subject Access Request) .
To do this contact the Data Protection Officer at the address above or by email.
You may be asked for proof of identity so we are sure you are who you say you are.
If the personal data the College hold of yours is inaccurate or incomplete, you can require that any inaccuracies are rectified.
If you were asked to agree to give the College your personal information, (to provide consent), you may change your mind at any time and ask for it to be deleted.
In most cases, your wishes will be followed and the personal information held will be erased.
If you have contested the accuracy of the personal data held, you can restrict the College’s use of it until accuracy has been verified.
If you object to us using your personal data we must also stop while we decide whether the College has a legitimate reason to do so.
In certain circumstances, you may require the transfer of your personal data to another organisation in a machine-readable form.
You may object to the College using your personal data for direct marketing at any time and we must stop as soon as your objection is received.
You may object to the College processing your personal data in certain other circumstances but may need to provide details of your particular situation.
The College must follow additional rules if it makes decisions solely by automated means or use your personal to determine something else about you (known as profiling).
If you wish to exercise any of these rights, please send your request to the Data Protection Officer via email at dp (@gold.ac.uk) .
Your request will be dealt with within 28 days.
Further information regarding your rights as an individual is available from the Information Commissioner’s website .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/privacy-notices:
Our privacy notices set out important information on how Goldsmiths collects and uses personal information.
General privacy information about how we handle information and your rights.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/policies:
Policies setting out the obligations of staff and students to comply with data protection legislation.
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 has the aim of promoting greater openness about the way public authorities operate.
Please see the full details on the CCTV policy.
Please see the full details on the copyright policy.
See the full details of the Information Security policy

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/guidance-and-forms:
Goldsmiths is committed to protecting and managing the information and personal data it holds.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/privacy-notices/general-information:
Goldsmiths, University of London is committed to protecting any personal information provided to it and meeting its legal duties under the Data Protection Act 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation and any other applicable laws.
This notice sets out important information on how Goldsmiths collects and uses personal information.
It should be read alongside the information provided when your personal data is collected.
If you wish to get in touch about anything relating to your personal data, our address is:
If you have any questions or are unhappy with how the College has used your personal information, you can contact the Data Protection Officer by email:
dp (@gold.ac.uk) or by writing to them at our address.
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) is responsible for making sure that personal data is collected and processed in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act.
If you are dissatisfied with how we have processed your personal data, you may lodge a complaint with the ICO by contacting:
Information Commissioner's Office: ico.org.uk
Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 5AF
Telephone: 0303 123 1113
When we ask you for your personal data we will always tell you:
The personal data will not be used for any other purpose unless the law requires that we do.
We may from time to time use external companies to help improve our efficiency or to carry out work on our behalf, such as sending out mailshots.
When we do this, we will ensure that they only use your personal information for the purpose that we asked and not for anything else.
As a university, Goldsmiths has a duty to share personal information about our staff and our prospective, current and graduate students with a number of public bodies.
For example, all UK universities are obliged to give contact details for a sample of recent graduates to HESA (The Higher Education Statistics Agency) in order to conduct a survey of graduate destinations.
Information provided helps inform government policy.
It is also used in calculations for university league tables and by the universities themselves to assess the longer-term impact of the student experience.
The data is provided to HESA strictly and solely for this purpose.
Goldsmiths’ College (also known as ‘Goldsmiths, University of London’) is a corporate body established by Royal Charter, and an exempt charity.
In order to meet its duty to maintain effective control of its finances, the University’s financial affairs are subject to audit.
This involves sharing details of financial transactions and governance information with external auditors and may contain personal data.
Further details can be found in our Annual Reports and Financial Statements .
If the College intends to share your personal information with anyone else, you will be told when it is collected and be given an explanation as to what will be done with it.
Your personal information will never be sold to anyone.
Unless you give your consent, your personal information will not be transferred to a country outside of the EU unless it has the same or better laws protecting your privacy.
Further and more detailed information about how the College collects and uses the information of Students, Staff and Alumni is available on our privacy notices .
Goldsmiths has a Data Protection Policy that sets out how we process personal data to ensure that it is kept secure at all times and only used appropriately.
Privacy legislation gives you a number of rights to decide how your personal information is processed, shared and kept.
You have the right to request a copy of the personal information Goldsmiths holds of yours.
In most cases your wishes will be followed and the personal information held will be erased.
In certain circumstances, you may require the transfer of your personal data to another organisation in a machine readable form.
If you wish to exercise any of these rights, please send your request to the Data Protection Officer via email at dp ( @gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/privacy-notices/students:
Privacy notice for past, present and prospective students of Goldsmiths.
Goldsmiths is committed to protecting any personal information provided to us and meeting our legal duties under the Data Protection Act 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation and any other applicable laws.
This notice explains how Goldsmiths will collect, use and share your personal data and sets out your rights in relation to your personal data Goldsmiths holds.
It should be read alongside our general privacy information and other privacy notices .
Your personal data is collected from the following sources:
The data collected and processed may include:
Goldsmiths will process your personal data for the following purposes:
Your personal data is held securely within the College.
Access to the data is controlled.
Staff processing the data receive relevant training on data protection and information security.
From time to time, the College may commission agents of a third party to enhance the systems storing your personal data.
Where this occurs they will act strictly in accordance with the instructions given by the College, scheduled within a data sharing agreement, so that your personal data remains secure.
It is occasionally necessary for Goldsmiths to share your personal data with third parties.
It may necessary share your personal data as follows:
The Higher Education Statistics Agency Limited (HESA) is the body responsible for collecting and disseminating information about higher education in the UK and the Designated Data Body for England.
HESA is a Controller of your information.HESA’s wholly-owned subsidiary company HESA Services Limited acts as a Processor to do work on behalf of HESA and other organisations described in the notice below but may also act as a Controller.
All of the HESA collection notices are available on the HESA website , including the Student Collection Notice .
These relate to information about you which will be collected by Goldsmiths and passed to HESA and other organisations as described.
In particular, Goldsmiths submits student data to HESA as set out in the student collection notice.
The Graduate Outcomes survey is the biggest annual social survey in the UK and captures the perspectives and current status of graduates.
All graduates who completed a higher education course in the UK after August 2017 will be asked to take part in the survey 15 months after they finish their studies.
Graduate Outcomes collection notices .
Goldsmiths will look to retain your personal data for as long as there is the lawful reason to do so unless you request that it be removed from the College’s records.
Once no such reason exists, your data will be deleted or, where deletion is not possible for technical reasons, it will be anonymised.
You may ask at any time for us to delete your personal data by contacting dp (@gold.ac.uk) .
Goldsmiths relies on several different legal bases.
Depending on the processing being performed these may include one or more of the following:
Privacy legislation gives you have a number of rights to decide how your personal data is collected and processed.
Details of these are contained within the general information on our website.
See general privacy information on how we process personal data and other privacy notices .
Further information regarding your rights as an individual is available from the Information Commissioners website .
You have a right to complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office about the way Goldsmiths processes your personal data.
Details on how to complain can be found on the Office’s website .
This Notice may be amended or updated.
Where this occurs, Goldsmiths will announce the change on its website.
Once this has been done, you will be deemed to have accepted the change.
Should you have any concern about your personal data at Goldsmiths please contact the Data Protection Officer by email via: dp (@gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/privacy-notices/staff:
Privacy notice for past, present and prospective staff of Goldsmiths.
Goldsmiths collects and processes personal data relating to its staff to manage the employment relationship, to conduct its operations effectively, and to fulfil its legal and regulatory responsibilities.
The organisation is committed to being transparent about how it collects and uses that data and to meeting its data protection obligations.
This notice explains how Goldsmiths will collect, use and share your personal data and sets out your rights in relation to your personal data.
How Goldsmiths collects and uses occupational health data about employees .
Some of the above may contain or be “sensitive personal data”, otherwise known as “special category data”.
This is data about your racial or ethnic origin, biometrics, religious beliefs or other beliefs, trade union membership or physical or mental health.
Your information will be shared internally, including with members of People and Operational Development and Finance (including Payroll), your line manager, managers in the department in which you work and IT staff if access to the data is necessary for performance of their roles.
Aggregated equality data will be shared with College managers and committees and published on our website for the purpose of equality monitoring.
It may be necessary to share your personal data as follows:
Arrangements will be in place to ensure that your data is exchanged in a secure manner.
Where the College engages third parties to process personal data on its behalf, they do so on the basis of written instructions, are under a duty of confidentiality and are obliged to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure the security of data.
Appropriate safeguards will be put in place where your data is to be transferred outside the European Union.
The College makes a return to Higher Education Statistics Agency Limited (HESA) each year for all member of staff.
The return contains anonymised personal data and sensitive personal data (e.g.
sexual identification, location on leaving, nationality).
This data is collected by HESA to inform government policy and to make calculations for university league tables.
All of the HESA collection notices are available on the HESA website , including the Staff Collection Notice .
Goldsmiths will hold your personal data for the duration of your employment.
It will continue to hold your personal data after the end of your employment for so long as it has a lawful basis and legitimate business need to do so.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/privacy-notices/alumni-and-friends:
This notice explains how Goldsmiths through its Development and Alumni Office (DAO) and other departments, will collect and use your personal data for alumni and development activities.
This notice explains how we will collect, use and share your personal data and should be read alongside our general privacy information and other privacy notices .
The Development and Alumni Office will process personal data in order to maintain and promote a vibrant and engaged alumni community, to further the College’s objectives and in pursuit of its Strategic Plan.
Personal data may also be processed for the following purposes:
Goldsmiths relies on several different legal bases depending on the processing being performed:
The data processed may include:
Some of the above may contain special category data.
This is data about your racial or ethnic origin, religious beliefs or other beliefs, physical or mental health.
Goldsmiths will only process such data where you have given your consent for the College to have and use it or where the data has, to the best of the College’s knowledge and belief, been placed in the public domain by you.
The Development and Alumni Office does not share data with third-party organisations other than those acting on its behalf and with whom it has data-sharing agreements.
Arrangements will be in place to ensure that your data is exchanged in a secure manner and that it is not used for any purposes other than those agreed by Goldsmiths.
If the Development and Alumni Office intends to share your personal information with anyone else, you will be notified and informed of the reason why when it is collected.
Your details will not be shared with any individuals looking to contact you, including your former fellow students.
The Development and Alumni Office will retain your personal data for as long as there is a lawful reason to do so, unless you request that it be removed from the records.
You may ask at any time for us to delete your personal data by contacting dp (@gold.ac.uk ).
Where this happens, a record of the request and basic details will be retained in order to ensure that your data is not added to the database in future.
Your personal data is held on the Alumni Database.
Arrangements are in place to ensure that your data remains secure.
Access to the data is strictly controlled.
Fundraising is vital in contributing to the work of Goldsmiths and ensuring we can continue to support students from all backgrounds and carry out world-leading research.
The College tries to undertake activities that are effective and appropriate.
Research enables the Development and Alumni Office to identify those alumni and other individuals who are likely, able and willing to make major gifts and to make sure that fundraising communications are relevant and of interest.
This also helps us make informed decisions about our fundraising strategy and ensure our resources are used as effectively as possible and helps generate funds cost-effectively.
Our objective is to ensure that any approaches we make to you are respectful, professional and are based on evidence that you might be interested in our work, providing you with the best experience we can.
Research is carried out by analysing personal data.
This could include research on financial, business, philanthropic, biographical and demographic information sourced from publicly available data such as Companies House, the Charity Commission and the media.
We may also look at professional networks such as LinkedIn, and process special category data if it has been made manifestly made public by you; for example, through an interview or a publicly directed social media post.
This analysis will be done by the Development and Alumni Office.
If you prefer that Goldsmiths does not conduct the above activity in relation to your personal data, please contact the Development and Alumni Office by emailing alumni (@gold.ac.uk) .
All UK universities are obliged to give contact details for a sample of recent graduates to HESA (The Higher Education Statistics Agency) in order to conduct a survey of graduate destinations.
Graduates from Summer 2017 and earlier will be contacted both 6 months and potentially 3 years after graduation ("DLHE survey").
See this HESA collection notice .
Graduates from November 2017 onward will be contacted 15 months after graduation.
(The “Graduate Outcomes” survey, which replaces the DLHE survey from 2017/18).
These surveys help to inform government policy.
They are also used in calculations for university league tables and by the universities themselves to assess the longer-term impact of the student experience.
All recent graduates to whom this applies will be given the option to opt-out of the survey when they are first contacted.
This notice was last updated on 26 August 2020.
It is advised that you check here regularly as this notice may be amended or updated at any time.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/privacy-notices/council-members:
Privacy notice for members of Goldsmiths' governing bodies - Council and its Committees.
Goldsmiths, University of London collects and processes personal data relating to Members of the College Council and Committees in order to fulfil its Charter, its legal and regulatory responsibilities and to manage its relationship with Members effectively.
This Notice explains how Goldsmiths will collect, use and share your personal data and sets out your rights in relation to your personal data.
It should be read alongside the general information on how we process personal data and the use of cookies on our website .
This Notice will be kept under review and Members will be informed of any significant changes.
This may include:
Goldsmiths relies on several different legal bases for processing your personal data.
The lawful bases are set out in Article 6 of the UK GDPR.
Depending on the processing being performed, these may include one or more of the following:
We may process your special category data to ensure the College has appropriate facilities to accommodate your needs.
For example, we may need to process information about your dietary requirements where these are related to your religious or philosophical beliefs.
We process this data in order to comply with a statutory obligation conferred on us by equality law or health and safety law, in accordance with Schedule 1 Part 2 of the Data Protection Act 2018.
We process Criminal Offence data to the extent that this might arise in Fit and Proper person checks, or other due diligence undertakings.
The processing is undertaken with explicit consent and/or because it is necessary for reasons of substantial public interest set out in Schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act 2018, particularly paragraphs 6 and 12.
Where this occurs, they will act in accordance with the instructions given by the College, scheduled within a data sharing agreement, so that your personal data remains secure.
Your information will be shared internally with College staff who need the information for administrative purposes.
The information will be placed in the public domain in respect of:
It may also be necessary to share your personal data with:
Jisc is the Designated Data Body for England under the Higher Education and Research Act 2017, with a statutory relationship to the Office for Students.
On 4 October 2022 the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) merged with Jisc; HESA is now part of Jisc.
Goldsmiths has a statutory requirement to report data to HE funding and regulatory bodies.
It does this by providing information to JISC who shares this information with public authorities who require it to carry out their statutory and/or public functions.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/privacy-notices/artsmark:
Privacy notice for people taking part in the Artsmark Award programme.
Goldsmiths will collect and process personal data to provide training and peer mentoring services to support the delivery of the Artsmark Award programme.
Arts Council England is the data controller for any data processed in relation to the Artsmark Award programme.
For further information on how your personal data will be processed please read the Arts Council England General Privacy Notice, which can be found on Arts Council's data protection page .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/privacy-notices/photography-and-filming:
This Notice explains how Goldsmiths will collect, use and share your image.
It should be read alongside the General Privacy Notice and any other information that you may receive when your image is collected.
The images we collect may be published online, for example on our website, intranet and social media profiles, in advertising or in print for the following purposes:
Your image may also be used for teaching, fundraising or awareness campaigns, and for training and development.
We will only use your other information to identify you to ensure that we comply with your individual rights, and/or alongside images as discussed with you.
Goldsmiths relies either on consent or legitimate interests to process your image depending on the processing being performed and the circumstances of the data subjects.
We may collect your image through photography and filming during events or activities on or off campus.
We may also collect other information provided by you such as your name and contact details to allow us to identify your image when it is stored.
It may be necessary for Goldsmiths to share your personal information between colleagues, teams and departments who need access to your information to carry out their normal duties.
We sometimes use third party organisations to collect and process data on our behalf.
These organisations include professional photographers, design agencies and printing services.
Goldsmiths will take the necessary steps to ensure that any third-party organisation that we work with adheres to data protection law by ensuring that there is a contract or agreement in place with them.
There may be occasions where we wish to pass on your image to the press for wider publication.
Where we wish to do this, we will have always sought your consent before doing so.
Where your image and other personal information are shared through our social media profiles, these can be viewed and shared by anyone throughout the world after they are published.
They will be stored and distributed by the third party organisations who own and manage these social media platforms.
Depending on the context in which your image will be used on our social media profiles, we may have sought your consent before doing so.
Once your image and any other information have been collected, they will be held in our database for four years, at which point they will be archived.
You may ask us at any time to stop using your image and information by contacting the department or team that took your photo.
If you are not sure who this is, please contact cmr (@gold.ac.uk) .
We will not always be able to remove images used online and in print once in circulation, but images will not be processed any further by us.
Your personal information is held securely within the College with controlled access.
Staff that process your information will have received the relevant data protection training.
From time to time, we may work with a third-party organisation to enhance the systems storing your personal information.
Where this occurs, they will act strictly in accordance with the instructions given by us and outlined in a contract or data sharing agreement, so that your personal information remains secure.
Privacy legislation gives you a number of rights in relation to the processing of your personal data.
This notice was last updated in October 2021.
It is advised that you check here regularly as this notice may be amended or updated at any time.
If you have any questions about photography and filming, please contact cmr (@gold.ac.uk) .
Should you have any concerns about the way Goldsmiths processes your personal information, please contact the Data Protection Officer by email: dp (@gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/privacy-notices/privacy-notice-honorary-degrees-and-fellowships-privacy-notice-:
This privacy notice covers the period between the opening of nominations for Honorary Awards and the award presentation
Once an award is conferred the A lumni and Supporters Privacy Notice will apply.
The purpose for which Goldsmiths will process personal information is to receive and assess nominations for Honorary Degrees or Honorary Fellowships of the College.
The processing will involve:
The legal basis relied on for lawful processing by Goldsmiths is Article 6(1)(f) of the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation ('UK GDPR'), “processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller”.
The personal information collected about nominators may include:
Information collected about nominees may include:
Goldsmiths does not share data with third-party organisations other than those acting on its behalf and with whom it has data-sharing agreements.
=
Goldsmiths will retain your personal data for as long as there is a lawful reason to do so, unless you request that it be removed from the records.
You may ask at any time for us to delete your personal data by contacting dp (@gold.ac.uk) .
Where this occurs, they will act strictly in accordance with the instructions given by the College, scheduled within a data sharing agreement, so that your personal data remains secure.
Information about your rights under UK data protection law can be found on the Information Commissioner's Office website .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/data-protection/examinations:
Provisions of the Data Protection Act relating explicitly to the conduct of examinations
For the purposes of the Data Protection Act 1998, 'examinations' are defined as follows:
It will be noted that this is a broad definition, which for universities extends beyond what is normally understood by "examinations", and includes, for example, tests taken by candidates for admission or employment.
There are special provisions and interpretations under the Act which relate to personal data generated in the course of examination processes.
These may be summarised as follows:
The right to receive a reply to a Data Subject Access Request for assessment outcomes or examiners' comments may be longer than the standard 28 days.
Data Subjects whose requests relate to examinations have the right to a reply within five months of their request, or 28 days after the announcement of the results of the assessment, whichever is the shorter period.
This means that it is in most cases impossible to withhold data relating to coursework assessments or formal papers taken in advance until after a decision is made to award a degree, as has in the past happened with some taught postgraduate degrees.
In the event of a Data Subject Access Request relating to marks or other data related to the assessment process, all relevant data held must be disclosed within five months (regardless of whether it is held in College or at some other location).
This does not imply that there is a legal obligation to mark material for assessment within five months to enable disclosure to the student (although prompt feedback is widely felt to be good pedagogical practice).
However, if work has been marked then there will be an obligation to disclose data generated by this process within the five-month time-limit.
Candidates have the right to see comments made on their assessed work (by internal or external examiners) but do not have a right to see their own scripts (or to be told the identity of the examiner where this is not obvious - see below).
This normally means that examinations should be organised in a such a way that examiners' comments (from both internal and external examiners) can be made available to students in intelligible form without the script (eg by the use of coversheets).
Where marks are released to students while they are still subject to confirmation by an examination board, it is the responsibility of the person authorising the release of data to satisfy themselves that students are being informed of its provisional status.
(This includes any marks seen by a second year undergraduate Board which may be subject to modification by a third-year Board.)
Students who are in debt to the College at the time of publication of their final examination results are informed that until their debt is settled they can only obtain their results by making a Data Subject Access Request, which will result in their obtaining their examination marks without any official transcript or certificate.
See the section on Making a Data Subject Access request.
Examiners should be aware that anything which they write in the course of an assessment may be disclosed in the event of a Data Subject Access request by a candidate.
In the case of External Examiners it is the responsibility of the Quality, Planning and Academic Governance Department, when offering appointments, to draw their attention to this, and to discourage them from mentioning individual students by name in their reports.
Heads of Department and others should be aware that nomination forms, and any correspondence about External Examiner appointments, may be seen by the nominee concerned should he/she make a Data Subject Access Request.
The General Data Protection Regulation and the 1998 Act provides Data Subjects with specific rights to be informed of the logic of any purely automated decision that significantly affects them.
In the context of examinations this would mean that a mark was recorded against a student's name without any human monitoring of the automated outcome which would might cause the outcome of the assessment to be modified.
Other than in respect of the degree classification formula (which is published), in practice this is likely to occur at Goldsmiths only occasionally - in relation to records held in departments of coursework marks from certain types of multiple choice exercise.
Those departments which have any coursework or other marks assigned on the basis of purely automated decisions must have a formal statement freely available to students (eg in the Student Handbook), explaining the logic behind any assessment or grading system that is based entirely on automated means.
No new automated decision-making may be introduced until such a formal statement has been approved by the Head of Department.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/financial-reports:
How Goldsmiths manages its finances is an important issue for our students, staff and stakeholders.
We are committed to ensuring transparency in our financial reporting and helping our community and stakeholders in gaining a clearer understanding of our financial situation.
We have highlighted key information about our finances on this page, with the full details published in our Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-2024 (PDF) .
Sharing information clearly to encourage understanding is particularly important at a time when universities are facing a range of financial challenges, with the sector regulator the Office for Students projecting that seven out of 10 UK higher education organisations are at risk of operating in financial deficit.
Every year we publish our financial accounts, in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
This is published in December and details the financial activity of the college in the previous academic year.
The financial information published in December 2024 reports on our position during the financial year that began on 1 August 2023 and ended on 31 July 2024.
Our Annual Report and Financial Statements are independently audited and we are legally required to publish them.
As with all higher education providers registered with the government, we also have a duty to the Office for Students to demonstrate that we are in financial good health so we can continue operating as a university.
There are three key factors which inform our headline financial position:
For 2023-24 the three factors were:
An underlying surplus of £1.6 million means we ended the financial year with a modest amount of money which will be reinvested to support Goldmiths and our ongoing activities.
We finished in this position as a result of a number of factors including initial savings made by the Transformation Programme.
Without these savings we would have finished the year in a negative deficit position.
The underlying surplus excludes certain one-off or volatile items that tend to distort the position.
These include a credit in connection with the valuation of the USS pension scheme of £41.9 million, one-off staff restructuring costs of £6.4 million and other gains of £0.3 million.
After taking these items into account in our Financial Statements, the reported result is a surplus of £37.4 million.
Where our money comes from and how we spend it is illustrated in these charts.
People are at the heart of all the College’s activities, and our biggest expenditure is on staff.
This includes paying wages, contributing to pensions and paying social security costs.
Our staff expenditure excluding pension movements and restructuring costs totalled £90 million – making up two-thirds of our overall spending.
Of this, £49.9 million was spent on academic staff and £40.1 million on professional and technical staff who work in academic departments.
A breakdown of staff expenditure excluding pension movements and restructuring costs shows that Goldsmiths spent:
Goldsmiths has 1,367 full-time equivalent staff, with 671 of these colleagues Teaching and Research staff and 696 Administrative and other which includes colleagues who work in academic departments.
The median average salary at Goldsiths is £45,406.
The Warden's salary is £257,965 and the total emoluments of the Warden are £261,141.
This gives the Warden’s salary a pay ratio of 5.7 to the median salary at Goldsmiths.
In addition to spending on staff Goldsmiths must meet a range of other costs related to the running and operation of the university.
This includes:
We also spend significant amounts of money in providing direct support to our communities, excluding the costs of staff these include:
An important part of the financial operations of any university is the ability to access cash to meet day-to-day running costs including paying for services and goods and paying staff.
As part of our commitments to the Office for Students we are required to demonstrate that we have sufficient cash reserves to continue operations.
If the sum of our cash balance and unused credit facilities is projected to fall below the 30-days’ worth of expenditure – meaning the College would exhaust its cash reserves within 30 days without additional income – we are obligated to report this situation to the Office for Students.
In recent years we have focused on improving our cash balance to give us greater protection against financial shocks given continuing uncertainty for our sector and give us headroom to invest in students’ learning.
On 31 July 2024, cash balances stood at £41.3 million.
Read the full Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023-2024 (PDF) .
Read statements from previous years .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information/degree-outcomes-statement:
In May 2019, the UK Standing Committee for Quality Assessment (UKSCQA) published a Statement of Intent which recommended that Higher Education providers should publish a Degree Outcomes Statement, analysing their institutional degree classification profile and articulating the results of an internal institutional review.
This statement is the result of that review at Goldsmiths.
It considers undergraduate degree results over the five-year period from 2016/17 to 2020/21.
It sets out teaching, assessment and marking practices, the algorithm used to calculate students’ degree classification and the mechanisms employed to assure the quality and standards of the awards together with any changes that have taken place over this period.
It was approved by the Quality and Standards Committee and Goldsmiths Council (governing body) in November 2021.
Degree outcomes statement (PDF)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information/gender-pay-gap:
The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference between the average hourly earnings of male and female staff.
Goldsmiths, University of London has a statutory duty to report this data to the Government Equalities Office.
All employers in Great Britain (excluding Northern Ireland) with more than 250 member of staff must report this information under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017, which require us to report on a number of metrics as of 31 March in a given year.
These metrics are:
The gender pay gap differs from equal pay, which requires that men and women in the same employment performing equal work must receive the same pay.
Both the gender pay gap and equal pay are measurements which address the disparity of pay women receive in the workplace.
While it is a requirement by law that gender pay gap data must be supplied in female and male categories, Goldsmiths recognises that gender is not a binary concept.
Data as of 31 March 2024 shows:
Goldsmiths does not have a formal bonus scheme.
Read the full Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2024 (PDF) .
Data as of 31 March 2023 shows:
Data as of 31 March 2022 shows:
Data as of 31 March 2021 shows:
Data as of 31 March 2020 shows:
Data as of 31 March 2019 shows:
Data as of 31 March 2018 shows:
The overall profile of our staff population on 31 March 2018 was 55% women and 45% men.
Data as of 31st March 2017 showed:
The overall profile of our staff population on 31 March 2017 was 54% women and 46% men.
Goldsmiths aims to advance Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) through everything that we do.
Our EDI strategy and Public Sector Equality Duty objectives can be found on our Equality and Diversity pages.
Goldsmiths participates in the Athena SWAN Charter , achieving the Bronze award in March 2020.
Our Athena SWAN action plan sets out the steps we will take to achieve greater representation of women in these senior academic roles, and to promote gender equality more broadly.
All of our initiatives aim to challenge structural and intersectional inequalities.
Key initiatives include:
Latest data released by the Office for National Statistics shows that the average median gender pay gap among all employees in the UK is 13.1%.
Among full-time employees it is 7%.
Goldsmiths operates a grade structure based on the New JNCHES single pay scale.
Pay in relation to the single pay spine is negotiated nationally.
All roles outside of our Senior Management Team and others off the national single pay scale roles are evaluated using the HERA job evaluation scheme.
The HERA scores are mapped to our grading structure to ensure that we remunerate staff fairly for the same role, like work and work of equal value regardless of their role within the institution.
This ensures that we comply with the Equality Act 2010 and do not pay people unequally due to a protected characteristic such as their sex.
The grading structure contains a number of spine points within each grade band; and staff are usually appointed to the bottom of the grade band.
Under this framework staff who have held a role for a longer period are more highly remunerated within that grade band for their work; and this remuneration reflects the experience that they have gained in undertaking their duties.
Prior to publication these figures have been reported to our Executive Board and we will report regularly to PODEC HR committee with regard to work we undertake to close our gender pay gap.
Page last updated 4 July 2025

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information/ethnicity-pay-gap:
The ethnicity pay gap is a measure of the difference between the average hourly earnings of Black, Asian and minority ethnic staff and white staff.
Goldsmiths recognises and is committed to challenging the structural barriers experienced by people of colour.
To enable us to create equity within the College we are voluntarily reporting our ethnicity pay gap on an annual basis, and taking active steps to address it.
Unlike gender pay gap reporting, ethnicity pay gap reporting is not required by law but there are growing calls to make it a statutory requirement.
This includes a 2022 report from the House of Commons Women and Equalities Committee , which said such reporting should become mandatory and that publishing this data was a first step in addressing such disparities.
The data presented below reflects all staff whose ethnicity is known by the College.
Data is published for the previous year, so data for 2024 was published in March 2025.
Staff are ordered from highest- to lowest-paid, based on the hourly pay rate used for the pay gap calculations.
This data is then divided equally into four to create the pay quartiles.
We calculate our ethnicity pay gap using the same methodology set out in government regulations for calculating our gender pay gap.
Pay profile by quartile
The ethnicity pay gap
Data as of 31 March 2021 shows:
The proportion of black, Asian and minority ethnic staff is lowest in the top pay quartile (Q1) and highest in the lowest pay quartile (Q4).
This is the primary cause of our ethnicity pay gap.
The Race Justice Strategic Framework has been created to enable the identification and uprooting of systemic drivers of race discrimination, bullying and harassment at Goldsmiths.
The Race Justice Strategy Board intends to directly address every driver of race discrimination, bullying and harassment identified within the Strategic Framework to overturn the historical legacies of race inequity at the College.
The information below sets the steps that are currently being taken to address the ethnicity pay gap at Goldsmiths:
A new recruitment and selection procedure was introduced in Autumn 2021 along with additional guidance on equitable interviewing and positive action.
All Chairs of recruitment panels are required to undertake training in recruitment and selection.
This has a strong emphasis on anti-racist practice and positive action.
As part of the Race Justice Strategic Framework, specific measures and targets for recruiting and promoting staff to senior roles within Goldsmiths have been set, in order to address the under-representation of staff of colour in these roles.
In Autumn 2021 the Academic Promotions procedures were amended to include greater acknowledgement of the work undertaken by staff in relation to EDI, with the aim of ensuring the work undertaken (often by staff of colour and other minoritised groups) in relation to EDI is better recognised as part of career progression.
Guidance for line managers on conducting PDRs in an inclusive way has been published on Goldmine and integrated into staff training.
The guidance aims to encourage line managers to proactively support the career progression of staff of colour and other staff who face barriers to career progression.
The PDR process will also be reviewed to ensure it is delivered in a way that proactively supports the career progression of staff of colour at Goldsmiths.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information/employersandpublicliabilityinsurance:
Information about Goldsmiths' insurance policies.
This policy provides cover for the employer in the event of claims brought by employees based on injury to their person suffered in the course of employment as a result of the fault of the employer.
In the case of seconded staff, work experience placements and persons temporarily attached to the University, other employers or authorities may require confirmation or certificate of our insurance cover.
Our cover is £25,000,000 plus an additional £5,000,000 equating to a cumulative total of £30,000,000.
Insurance certificate (PDF)
Insurance certificate excess (PDF)
This policy provides an indemnity to the college for its legal liability for injury to persons (other than employees) and damage to material property belonging to other persons arising in connection with the business of the university.
Our insurers will handle all public liability claims where property damage exceeds £250 and/or personal injury is involved.
Please inform the Insurance Team of any activity, research or consultancy of an unusual nature or involving aerial activity, pollution or clinical trials.
This is a summary of the cover, for more detail please contact Goldsmiths Insurance Department.
This provides cover against claims from third parties for breach of professional duty and negligent acts, errors or omissions in giving advice, design specification or report and relates solely to the staff of the university, not students.
The cover includes libel, slander, and breach of confidentiality, but excludes claims arising from any matter published wholly or in part by students.
The University holds fully comprehensive motor insurance covering damage to the vehicle and liability to third parties for specified vehicles owned by the University.
If you are using your own vehicle in connection with college business you must ensure that you have the correct type of motor insurance (to include any business usage).
Vehicles hired within the UK for college business are covered by our policy although the college's preferred supplier Enterprise should be used.
This also includes vehicles hired within the UK but driven into Europe.
However, any vehicle hired outside of the UK, will NOT be covered by the policy.
Staff wishing to hire vehicles while abroad must ensure they take out insurance from within the country the vehicle is being hired from.
If you are hiring a vehicle within the UK vehicle for 14 days or more, you must contact the Insurance Team so that the vehicle's details can be added to our motor database.
In the event that you need to make a motor claim under the college's motor insurance policy, please contact the Insurance Team.
Depending on the nature of the claim, an excess charge will need to be paid by the relevant department.
Motor Fleet (PDF)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/prevent:
The University has a number of legal obligations as a result of the Government’s Prevent strategy.
The Prevent Duty was introduced into law by the Government in 2015 via the Counter Terrorism and Security Act 2015.
This is how the Government describes the aim of the Prevent Strategy: ‘to reduce the threat to the UK from terrorism by stopping people becoming terrorists or supporting terrorism.’
The legal requirements have been in place since September 2015.
Specific guidance on compliance has been issued for those working in education.
The guidance asks for a risk assessment and action plan and highlights the need to review areas such as policies and procedures for managing events on campus, use of IT equipment and support provided via student services.
When the new law was introduced, we reviewed our existing arrangements for such matters and believe that we already have robust procedures in place to comply with our statutory duties.
We believe our policies and procedures comply with the legislation while ensuring our commitment to freedom of debate for all members of our community.
We remain in open dialogue with others including the Goldsmiths Students’ Union and the Office for Students on this matter.
We publish our action plan in the interests of transparency.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information/ofs:
Goldsmiths registration with The Office for Students (OfS) includes requirements to make certain information public.
Access and Participation Plan 2025-29 (PDF) How we will increase the opportunities for underrepresented groups to access, succeed in and progress through higher education.
Also see:
Student Protection Plan 2024-26 (PDF) How we protect our students’ interests in the event of changes that may affect their study.
Tuition Fee Policy and Procedures (PDF) Student’s financial obligations and the process for refunds and compensation should a programme of study be cancelled, or the student chooses to withdraw.
Student Transfer Policy (PDF) Requirements and considerations for undergraduate students looking to move their studies to or from another institution.
Transparency Return Admissions information about who applies to study at Goldsmiths, and who gets a place here.
Access and Participation Plan 2019-20 Impact Report (PDF) Impact reports are an OfS-produced summary of our self-reported progress against targets, objectives and written commitments.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information/risk-assessment:
This page hosts the Risk Assessment Record of Goldsmiths for ongoing operations in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic.
The document sets out the risks associated with the College’s operations during the pandemic and the steps being taken to mitigate these risks.
The document is not static and will change in response to developments around the pandemic.
Key influences on this will be decisions made by central government, local government and associated public health agencies and the College’s interpretations of these developments.
The College’s response to Covid-19 is being led by a Critical Incident Group, which has oversight and responsibility for making and implementing strategic decisions taken by Goldsmiths throughout the pandemic.
Organisational Risk Assessment Covid-19 (PDF)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information/statements-reports:
See additional reports, statements and policies we are required to publish by The Office for Students.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/students-union:
The Students' Union is an independent charitable organisation that works independently from Goldsmiths, University of London to represent and support students.
The Students' Union is predominantly funded by a block grant provided by the College.
The Students' Union have a Trustee Board which oversees the running of the organisation and is responsible for ensuring they are legally compliant, financially responsible and in line with their vision and values.
For more information about the Students' Union, student representation and their governance please visit the Students Union' website : goldsmithssu.org

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/governance/public-information/student-support:
Our student support services are always developing to reflect the changing needs of our students.
This page is about the service we offer.
See our main Wellbeing page for support and how to access help .
There has been a significant investment in the Counselling, Wellbeing and Disability and Inclusion Service teams over the past few years.
The Student Wellbeing Framework sets out our commitment to the physical and mental wellbeing of all students.
This page details some of the things we do.
Students can complete a form to access Wellbeing support, including making an appointment with a Wellbeing Adviser.
The Wellbeing team sees students who experience a range of emotional, circumstantial and mental health difficulties.
The Wellbeing team work with each student to create an individual wellbeing plan, referring them to other sources of internal or external help if necessary.
Ongoing counselling is offered to students following a referral via the Wellbeing team.
In addition to providing ongoing therapeutic services to students, the counselling team also offer a number of psycho-educational workshops for students over the academic year.
The team has produced a range of online videos and guidance to assist students facing a range of situations: starting university, procrastination, panic, exam stress, bereavement, isolation and loneliness, CBT, introduction to hypnosis, managing uncertainty, finding your voice in a seminar.
Disability Advisors offer appointments over the phone and on Microsoft Teams or face-to-face.
They work with students to establish support plans and communicate these to staff involved in implementing the support.
The support ranges from teaching and learning adjustments, to non-medical support (study skills, mentoring, BSL interpretation, etc.) and access to Assistive Technology.
Diagnostic assessments for Specific Learning can also be facilitated by the team.
Universal Reasonable Adjustments were introduced in 2023, giving disabled students quicker access to adjustments in their learning.
Our Multi-Faith Chaplaincy includes two Multi-Faith Chaplains - an Anglican Multi-Faith Chaplain and a Muslim Multi-Faith Chaplain who work closely with volunteers from other faiths.
They are trained and experienced in supporting students of all faiths and none, and will provide a range of faith services including:
When dealing with Report and Support cases, the Report and Support Triage team can refer students for specialist support within the Wellbeing team.
The Wellbeing team can coordinate a timely referral to key sexual violence external agencies and can provide ongoing support to ensure that the events have a minimal impact on the student’s academic progression and life at Goldsmiths.
The Campus Support team is available to provide friendly, overnight support for students.
They are here to be the first point of call for absolutely anything, seven days a week from 6pm-6am.
This is an NHS programme that focuses on treating adults with depression and anxiety.
Goldsmiths student can request to receive their IAPT practitioner appointments on campus.
Students may speak to their GP about IAPT support, or approach an adviser from Goldsmiths’ Wellbeing team.
The Wellbeing and Counselling teams have established closed working links with Humankind, a specialist substance misuse clinic, formerly known as Blenheim.
Humankind offer a range of recovery services designed to meet the unique needs of people facing drug or alcohol-related issues.
Blenheim is committed to providing free, friendly and non-judgemental advice, support and treatment for individuals and their families, friends and communities.
We have a contract with Amersham Vale Practice (based next to New Cross train station) to provide ring-fenced appointments for Goldsmiths students.
This dedicated GP team provide a joined-up service with the NHS.
The Wellbeing and Counselling teams are able to refer students in urgent need for a same day appointments and liaise with them for quick provision of medical evidence to assist with Extenuating Circumstances applications and registration with the Disability team.
An online financial education system ( Blackbullion ) helps students with their money matters.
We run regular ‘Supporting Staff to Support Students’ briefings alongside more specialist sessions aimed at Senior/Personal Tutors, Heads of Departments and staff in student-facing roles.
Approximately 80-100 staff typically attend these sessions during the autumn and spring terms.
In addition, a comprehensive ‘Supporting Staff to Support Students’ information is available to all student-facing staff in academic departments.
This is reviewed and updated, where necessary, on a yearly basis and accessible via our staff intranet.
1 x Head of Service 1 x Counselling Manager 3 x Counsellors/CBT Therapist 3 x Locum Counsellors 2 x Mental Health Advisers (Counselling and Wellbeing) 1 x Deputy Head of Service (Disability, Wellbeing and Advice) 4 x Wellbeing Advisers 4 x Disability Advisers 4 x Support Coordinators 6 x Campus Support (Out of Hours provision) Total: 29
1 x Head of Service 1 x Counselling Manager 3 x Counsellors/CBT Therapist 3 x Locum Counsellors 2 x Mental Health Advisers (Counselling and Wellbeing) 1 x Deputy Head of Service (Disability, Wellbeing and Advice) 4 x Wellbeing Advisers 5 x Disability Advisers 2 x Support Coordinators 5 x Campus Support (Out of Hours provision) Total: 27
1 x Head of Service 1 x Counselling Manager 3 x Counsellors/CBT Therapist 3 x Trainee Counsellors 2 x Mental Health Advisers (Counselling and Wellbeing) 1 x Deputy Head of Service (Disability and Wellbeing) 4 x Wellbeing Advisers 5 x Disability Advisers 2 x Support Coordinators 6 x Campus Support (Out of Hours provision) Total: 28
1 x Head of Service 1 x Counselling Manager 3 x Counsellors/CBT Therapist 2 x Associate Counsellors 2 x Mental Health Adviser (Counselling and Wellbeing) 1 x Deputy Head of Service (Disability and Wellbeing) 5 x Wellbeing Advisers 5 x Disability Advisers 1 x SpLD Assessor 2 x Support Coordinators 6 x Campus Support (Out of Hours provision) Total: 29
Disability: 1 x manager, 4 x advisers, 2 x co-ordinators Wellbeing: 1 x manager, 5 x advisers Counselling: 1 x senior counsellor, 3 x counsellors, 2 x associate counsellor, 1 x CBT therapist, 1 x mental health advisor Campus Support Officers/Out of Hours Provision: 5 x CSOs Total: 26
Disability: 1 x manager, 4 x advisers, 1 x co-ordinator Wellbeing: 1 x manager, 5 x advisers Counselling: 1 x senior counsellor, 4 x counsellors, 2 x associate counsellor Campus Support Officers/Out of Hours Provision: 5 x CSOs Total: 24
Page last updated September 2023

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/centres-units/migrant-futures-institute:
Find out about the institute's approach and mission and how to contact us.
Meet the people from Goldsmiths and across academia who are part of the institute.
A selection of some of the major projects the members of the institute have worked on.
Follow the latest news stories related to the work of the institute and its members.
Find out more about the Migrant Futures Postdoctoral Fellowships.
Find out more about the Migrant Futures Doctoral Studentships.
The Migrant Futures Institute will provide a platform for people to critically engage with migration issues, challenge existing paradigms, and envision migrant futures filled with hope, resilience, and dignity.
Contact the Migrant Futures Institute: mfi (@gold.ac.uk)
We aim to work closely both with people with migrant and refugee backgrounds and in communities of welcome to amplify diverse voices, challenge dominant narratives, and foster deeper understandings of migration, citizenship, and belonging.
Professor Frances Corner OBE, Warden, Goldsmiths, University of London
This is a photo of a refugees protest at Victoria Square in Athens after borders to the north of Greece were closed in February 2016.
It was taken by Sumita Shah ( Athens Volunteers Information and Co-ordination Group ).

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/asia-centre:
Hear about the history and aims of the Asia Centre.
Meet the academics and staff involved in the Asia Centre.
Learn more about the centre's partnerships with other institutions.
Read about the projects carried out by the Asia Centre.
Read about the events that the Asia Centre has previously hosted.
Contact the Confucius Institute for Dance and Performance with enquiries.
The Asia Centre sits within the Confucius Institute for Dance and Performance .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/research/centres-units/research-centre/centre-for-art-and-ecology:
Find out about the Centre for Art and Ecology.
Centre for Art and Ecology projects.
Meet the staff that are involved with the Centre.
The latest books, articles and practice research outputs by the Design Societies Research Unit.
Image caption: Participants at the Somatic Landscapes workshop co-organised with The Hildegard von Bingen Society for Gardening Companions and facilitated by Anju Marie Kasturiraj in the Art Research Garden, 27 April 2024.

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/cal:
Find out about the Centre for Arts and Learning.
Meet the research centre members and associate members.
Some of our ongoing research projects and consultancies.
See a broad range of work by centre members such as books, book chapters, practice research outputs and articles, among others.
Goldsmiths Partners with Arts Council England for Artsmark Programme.
Recordings of past events and links to register for upcoming events are here.
The Centre for Arts and Learning sits within the Educational Studies department .
Follow us on Twitter .
Send any enquiries to the Educational Studies department .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/centreofthebody:
The Centre of the Body bring together scholars and practitioners from the humanities, social sciences and the arts.
The Centre of the Body's Researchers and Research Associates.
See a range of work by the centre members such as books, book chapters and articles.
Building on the breadth and wealth of research activity at Goldsmiths around aspects of the body.
The Centre of the Body sits within the Department of Theatre and Performance .
The Centre of the Body sits within the Department of History .
For enquiries email: centreofthebody (@gold.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/britain-in-europe:
Find out about Britain in Europe.
Meet the experts from Britain in Europe.
Explore the current projects/reports being undertaken by Britain in Europe.
Follow our discussions.
The ‘ Knowing our Rights ’ research project aims to provide analysis, and to deepen and increase understanding, of the application of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) in the UK.
Britain in Europe sits within the Department of Law .
If you want to communicate with the centre please feel free to email Department of Law .
All blog posts

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/caribbean:
We are the only Caribbean-led Research and Resource Centre within a university.
We document, promote and foster the history of Caribbean culture locally and globally.
CDDS is a leading international Resource and Research Centre for the study of Caribbean and Diaspora culture.
Meet the researchers of the Centre for Caribbean and Diaspora Studies.
The names and thesis titles of students pursuing a MPhil or PhD working with us.
Find out more about the latest projects.
This interdisciplinary project workshop focused on Imoinda: Or She Who Will Lose Her Name by Joan Anim-Addo.
The initial concept behind the development of this site is to create an on-line resource for Caribbean Creole language learners.
CCDS Events and Conferences.
Enquires should go to m.edwin (@gold.ac.uk)
The Centre for Caribbean and Diaspora Studies sits within:

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/community-engagement-research:
Find out about the aims of the Centre for Community Engagement Research.
Forthcoming and past events.
Meet the researchers who are part of the Centre.
Recent publications and projects from our colleagues, friends, community activists, workers and volunteers.
Current and recent projects in our community.
The Centre for Community Engagement Research sits within the Department of Social, Therapeutic and Community Studies (STaCS) .
For more information or to enquire about future opportunities, contact the STaCs department .

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/ccl:
We aim to foster innovative research in and on the theory, practice and history of comparative literature, world literature(s) and theatre, reception of the classics, multilingualism and translation, intercultural theatre, and creative writing.
Access the most up-to-date information about CCL through their main website.
We have a long tradition of researching literary, visual, cultural and performance texts from all areas of the world and in many different languages.
The people that make up the Centre for Comparative Literature, including our expert consultations and members from Goldsmiths and beyond.
Our research covers different literatures, languages and cultures which we study through textual focus and in theoretical, historical and socio-political contexts.
We host workshops, seminars, conferences and public lectures to address matters of interest to comparative literature in its broadest sense.
Contact the CCL: CCL (@gold.ac.uk)
Director: l.boldrini (@gold.ac.uk)
Please see our latest news on our blog .
MA Translation MA World Theatres
MPhil/PhD English MPhil/PhD Translation MPhil/PhD Translation (by Practice)

New sentences found on https://gold.ac.uk/cgc:
Find out more about the centre, areas of focus and how to contact us.
Meet the members of the Centre for Critical Global Change.
A selection of highlighted projects from the researchers in the centre.
Recent work by Goldsmiths members such as book chapters, research and articles.